ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. As you know, today's agenda is the beginning of the discussion, in general, of the proposals of lein. 36 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2017 and 37 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017. Usually, we make an effort to make the most possible progress in the debate during the first day of consideration of the bills so that the second day will be faster and we can make the final statements sooner. I therefore ask you to make an effort in this regard, even though there is no obligation, as is obvious. The Government, PSD and PS may transfer time to the next day or anticipate up to 30 % of the time allocated to them and the other parties may freely manage their intervention times. Before opening the debate, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to do the favor of announcing the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that Mr President has admitted Bill No 340 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Military of the Armed Forces ( EMFAR ) ( PCP ), which falls to 3. the Commission and draft resolutions 534 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Museum and full operation of the Museum of the Lorvão Monastery ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 535 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that a study be conducted on the current hospital capacity installed in Lisbon and the impact of changing the response of the Central Lisbon Hospital Centre in the different specialties across the country ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 536 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the conditions that may and will deepen the attractiveness and installation of technology-based enterprises already within the framework of the Summit web, taking advantage of the conditions of the Madeira International Business Centre ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 537 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make it compulsory to indicate the country of origin on the labelling of honey ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u3	Thank you, Mr. Duarte Pacheco. I would like to take this opportunity to stress that Mr Duarte Pacheco has been elected by acclamation for a very important role in the Inter-Parliamentary Union and is a cause for joy throughout the Assembly of the Republic. [[General applause.]] Mrs. Members, let us begin the discussion, in general, of the proposals of lein. 36 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2017 and 37 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017. The Minister for Finance has the floor to present the bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u4	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen : Today we start the debate in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic on the Government's proposals for the Great Plan Options and for the State Budget for 2017. in a matter as important as the State budget, the choices are shared between the Government, which proposes, and Parliament, which deliberates. It is an exercise of freedom and democracy. Citizens, through their legitimate representatives, participate in the process of choosing the provision of public needs. This should be the case in an inclusive society. It is up to the Government to present and defend its choices, as set out in its guidance document, the Government Programme, and to respect the commitments made with Portuguese citizenship: to regain the economy by promoting social cohesion. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the XXI Constitutional Government presents the second budget of this XIII legislation, a fair and balanced budget that meets the Government Programme and international commitments; a budget that reduces the deficit, debt and the burden of taxes on national wealth; a budget that increases the income of families and social protection while promoting investment and sustainable economic growth. These were the commitments made in the Government Programme. The state budget proposal for 2017 contains the measures necessary for the country to grow in an inclusive manner. Since its takeover, the Government had to find solutions to serious problems it faced: a country sanctions process, resulting from the lead made by the European Commission to the operation of the former Government ; the stabilization of the banking system, with the former government 'to put the head in the sand' ; the capitalisation of the public bank, which was to be made; the exit of the excessive deficit procedure, which was not achieved in 2015 ;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the launch of the Community Support Framework, which was not operational neither for companies nor for the Public Administration ; the relaunch of the investment, which had an abrupt stop in the second half of 2015. But today it's not worth talking about the past. Today, we must be focused on the future. In the future of the country we want for our children, where we want work to have value and ensure the income of all generations, which have contributed so much to the construction of a better country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So I want to talk to you about the future we bring with the State Budget for 2017. The foundations for this future were already launched in 2016 by a Budget whose implementation we can be proud of. The State Budget Report for 2017 does not present the figures the opposition would like. It presents the lowest deficit in the history of our democracy, while strengthening social policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It has an accelerated economy with a free-growth labour market. It presents the first growth in the education budget for the last five years in 2016. The 2016 budget implementation does not include expenditure on education or health;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... fulfills the government's budgetary commitments. The strict implementation of the budget was clearly evident in all the tables presented within the legal framework in the State budget report. The additional tables made available deserved the largest party of opposition 22 seconds of attention. There is no better proof of the transparency of the report. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The nature of budgetary priorities is clearly seen by the growth of budget budgets of the budget programmes. After a continuous slowdown in the Portuguese economy throughout 2015, particularly marked in the second half of 2015, growth is now accelerating, and already two consecutive quarters, and all data indicate that it will continue to do so in the third quarter of this year. Trust is in clear recovery. All sectors of the Portuguese economy today have much higher levels of confidence than at the time the government took over. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this period, unemployment has fallen and employment has risen. Today, we are more in the labour market, because we believe in the future. Since 2011 the combination of these three factors has not been observed: decreased unemployment, increased employment and more active population. The Portuguese, particularly the younger ones, who have been proposed to abandon a supposed comfort zone, finally feel confidence in training, to place at the service of Portugal the skills they acquire with the effort of previous generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must attract the most qualified generation ever. These young people will be the most structural reform the country needs: the revolution of knowledge and innovation. The State Budget for 2017 continues this path, but we are fully aware of the work the country has ahead. The enormous loss of value imposed on the Portuguese economy and companies, by means of an internal redeployment budget, will take time to recover. Promoting economic growth and corporate capitalisation, consolidating public accounts and reducing debt and stabilizing the financial system are priorities of the State budget. Let me refer to one aspect of the greatest importance: the rigour of public accounts. in this budget is intensified the exercise of review of public expenditure, but it is important to mention that this exercise is not synonymous with blind cuts, nor sustained in unimplemented memos. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the contrary, it means rational and careful management of resources and a review of contracts. It means more efficiency: with the same resources, better distributed, do more and better. After the deficit of 2, 4 % in 2016, which will be the lowest of the Portuguese democratic history, we will again lower the deficit in 2017 to 1, 6 %. at the same time, we will reduce public debt to 128, 3 % of GDP. We will do - we will look for alternatives and avoid the paths that, at first sight, would be the easiest. Through a permanent dialogue at the internal and external levels, it has been possible to achieve objectives which have so far been considered impossible by many. After all, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is always an alternative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not rule to make the choices easier, but, yes, the right choices. And we take them seriously, with responsibility and transparency. We choose a Budget that continues to restore family income; we choose a Budget that promotes investment and inclusive economic growth; we choose a Budget that continues to develop the social state; and we choose a Budget that places on knowledge and innovation. These are the main areas of our activity: families, investment, the social state and knowledge. After the colossal increase in taxes and years when Portuguese families saw their income decline, we continued to reverse this policy, from the outset by eliminating the overtax of the IRS. The recovery of income is also due to the actual increase in pensions. In 2017, in addition to the update of all pensions, there will be an extraordinary increase of 10 € for more than 1, 5 million pensioners in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what we chose: to improve the life to which the previous government paid the crisis after a working life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also choose to update the social support indexer (IAS) and restore the values of the social income of insertion ( RSI) and the solidarity supplement for the elderly ( CSI). They are fundamental measures to combat the most serious manifestations of poverty. We choose to strengthen the family allowance for children up to three years to combat child poverty. We choose to continue wage replacement in the Public Administration, which will end in 2017. These are choices taken. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it is only possible because of the strictness that the State budget places in the evolution of public expenditure, because we place the resources available in policy measures that strengthen social cohesion. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is of the utmost importance that we have stronger companies, we have more innovation, we have competitiveness in national production. For all this, the State should provide the instruments suitable for promoting investment and economic growth. We must be able to overcome structural blockades, such as low corporate capitalisation or low level of innovation, which are still present in the national business fabric. In the Capitalisation Programme, the State budget gives several measures, of which I stress : those involving the creation of incentives to finance through equity; those involving the extension of tax credit for investments over EUR 5 million; those involving the extension of tax benefits for investments over EUR 10 million, with a view to raising foreign direct investment. Under the Seed Program, we believe that the benefits, within IRS, for investment in startups are important. Investment promotion measures extend to the acceleration of the European Structural and Investment Funds, amounting to EUR 5000 million, and also to the elimination of customs VAT, substantially improving the treasury of importing companies and the competitiveness of our ports. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also of great relevance to public investment. in this domain, proximity is a fundamental characteristic. The multi-annual public investment plan involves about 90 basic and secondary schools, projects of three new hospitals — Évora, Seixal and Lisboa Oriental — and the modernization of security forces. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these are choices such as those — investments in health, education and social solidarity — that promote the development of the country and its social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the State Budget for 2017, these choices are reinforced: by the provision of free school textbooks for all 1 students. the cycle; by the unique provision of disability; by the universalization of pre-school at three years, with 100 new rooms; and by the strengthening of the primary care network, with family physicians for all Portuguese. These measures contribute to the fight against poverty and social exclusion, while improving education and health for all. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly not have a better society without a decisive commitment to knowledge and innovation. Therefore, we will promote the recruitment of teachers and researchers to rejuvenation of higher education frameworks, strengthening scientific employment and facilitating the entry of young doctors into academic careers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the field of arts, support for artistic creation is restored, while efforts are being made to democratize access to culture by capturing new audiences. But a budget is also tax. This is the Budget of fiscal stability. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] Tax predictability has reached the Portuguese economy. The basic rates and elements of the calculation of the main taxes do not change. Never before had a Budget introduced so few tax changes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Never before has the total revenue been made with so few tax developments: 99, 5 % of the total tax revenue is obtained with existing taxes. [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] And this is achieved by reducing the tax burden. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As happened in 2016, in 2017 we paid less taxes for each euro of national wealth produced. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State Budget for 2017 arises with the maintenance of the signs of recovery of the economy in 2016 and its acceleration since the beginning of the year. We do not deny the need to strengthen the country's economic and financial situation, but no one can ignore the developments that have taken place since December last year, which, today, is marked by all international institutions. Trust is increasing in Portugal. And confidence in Portugal is also increasing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, we have more, much more public debt investors. Foreign direct investment in non-financial companies is increasing. Activity indicators follow an upward meaning. We have seen a widespread improvement in economic activity. The matching indicator of Banco de Portugal shows an improvement throughout the third quarter. This improvement is visible in the recovery of exports of goods. After several months of falling, the export indicator outside the European Union increases. Exports of services are beating records, supported in tourism activity, an economic activity that has already overcome seasonality with the provision of a more varied tourist offer. This is a priority of the government, also supported by the cultural offer. Imports, particularly from investment goods, are growing sharply and, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no growth without imports. Private investment has been increasing and showing a dynamism that did not have in the second half of 2015. The labour market stands out in this positive development, with a reduction in unemployment higher than that observed at the beginning of economic recovery. The unemployment rate is in September 2016, at 10 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is less 1, 6 percentage points than one year ago when that same rate was 12, 4 %. There has been a reduction in the length of unemployment, which is the biggest scourge for those who are unemployed. The number of unemployed over 12 months ago fell 14 % in the first half of 2016, a reduction higher than total unemployment. But more importantly, much more importantly, unemployment falls because it increases employment,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...not because there are Portuguese who give up the labour market, or because they leave or are invited to leave the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, employment is actually rising — it is rising by 2 % compared to last year. The data released yesterday by the National Institute of Statistics show the increase of 90 000 jobs during the last year. And these 90 000 jobs justify the reduction of almost 80 000 in the number of unemployed. Employee employment, measured by the number of workers with social security contributions, grows by more than 3 %. The average wage increases above 1 %. In recent months, contributions to social security have increased by more than 5 %. This one, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the real increase in income for Portuguese workers. Fortunately, for more and more Portuguese they get a job. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are determined in our policy, but we are fully aware that it is not possible to change everything in one year or in two budgets. But this is the right way to achieve the goals that we have drawn, for the recovery of activity and confidence in the future of the Portuguese economy and society. This is the Government's proposal for the State Budget for 2017. We are sure that the parliamentary debate will have in mind the clarification of the options and will count on the contributions of all. No one will be up to the time when the country lives, relinquishing its responsibilities at this time of national life. This is, we are fully convinced of it, the budget that Portugal needs. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u5	They signed up to request clarifications, 22 Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. in the first round, requests for clarification will be answered one by one. The first speaker to ask for clarification is Mr António Leitão Amaro, from the PSD, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u6	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, it was not up to you that I should address the first questions. We always used to get this debate open by the Prime Minister,... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u7	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u8	... but it seems that, after all, the budgetary choices are so embarrassing that Mr. Prime Minister simply hides himself in silence and runs away from the budgetary choices. It's regrettable! [[PS protests.]] Today we are beginning to discuss a bad proposal for State Budget, which insists on the wrong way, with mediocre results, which promises to continue in 2017. This is a government budget that is showing a sustainable performance. And it's sad because Portuguese people know that they deserve more and that they can have more, just looking at 2015 and seeing much better performance and results in terms of growth, employment, investment and exports. Portugal may have much more than it is happening in 2016 and by the government accounts than it will have in 2017. Mr Minister, today, once again, repeated several misconceptions. Mr Minister for Finance, is he living in Portugal for the first time 11 years now an increase in the active population? But what are those accounts? Oh, my God! Only since 2011, the active population has increased 11 times: 10 times this one, which is 11 times. a! But you know more, Minister : the increase of 8000 people in the active population in the last quarter, which you are talking about now, is completely absorbed by a much higher fall of more than 40 000 people who left the active population in the first quarter of 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u9	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u10	Actually, we're starting the budgetary debate right now, aren't we, Minister? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] But, I must say, we also hope that in the coming days, during the discussion of the State budget, they will try to distract with one of the two things:...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u11	Who's distracting you are!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u12	... now they will try to distract from the situation and from the suffering performance of this government, calling unrivalled early times of the emergency caused by the decisions and choices made last time you passed into the government — that will be one of the sides of the disk you will use! — they will now cry out for success, because they have simply managed to ensure that the country did not fall into a greater evil. Mr Prime Minister, Minister for Finance, your task is not to avoid a greater evil, it is to bring the Portuguese a greater good, much greater than the one you are bringing. I must tell you, Mr Minister for Finance, that we must discuss your path, your budget and your success by measuring, by measure of your results, but above all, we shall do so with your goals. One year ago, at the beginning of your governance, you said to the country: « With us, Socialist Party,... » — and management behind — '...will have much, much more growth in the economy, investment, employment and even private consumption! » They were going to have much more public investment. There would be no tax increases, a large reduction in public debt, and, as you can see, the return of income to families would also increase. Well, these are your goals, the goals outlined by VV. Ex. What do the results say? The numbers, not only for 2016, but your own numbers for 2017, say you failed, not one, not two, not three, but all your goals! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Now, in 2016, but also in 2017, none of these indicators are better, all are worse than in 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u13	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u14	And several of them are even worse than in 2014! Let's see: economy, employment, exports, investment and even private consumption grow, in some cases, half or even decrease because of what we had in 2015. Public investment, everybody knows, sink! The State Budget for 2017, as the Budget for 2016 was, is an arsenal of new taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u15	An arsenal! Is that what you're
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u16	Public debt hits records, it doesn't fall. And even the real income of families, the income available from families in the first half of 2016, according to INE data ( National Institute of Statistics ) — stop! —, grew half of what grew in 2015. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] They have failed all their goals for your own successful measures! Your performance is mediocre, the result is painful, but the Portuguese are paying! And what are you guys doing? Strangely, they think that, by miracle, persisting in the same path, they will have different results. But why do the results of your governance fail, because of the exclusive responsibility of your choices? Oh, my God! I highlight four great sins of this Budget. The first is to be a credible budget, which treats people as objects of an electoral struggle for the survival of power. [[All right!]] [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u17	This was the case when they hid the most essential and basic budgetary information so that the Portuguese did not realize that the revenue is failing, that the fiscal effort for next year will have to be greater, because the starting point is worse, and that the public services are having a much different performance and a much worse situation than they were saying. But it was also like that with the stuff in the overtax. Not only did you cheat when you put in law that the overtax was over this year—and she came back in 2017—as they said she was going to finish gradually throughout the year. False! All the revenues of 2017, from the first to the last day, pay surcharge! It is such an electoral trick, which is to say 'we will gradually eliminate the retention at the source' in time of the actual elections. [[PS protests.]] But, calm down, let the Portuguese know, from this House, that they gradually end the retention in the source, but the collection of the IRS (tax on the income of natural persons) will have the overtax until the last day. That's a good electoral mess! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] It is the same as that magical decision to increase pensions extraordinarily to a month of elections! But what is this mysterious and miraculous reason that prevents the same increase—but in lesser value, of course, if distributed throughout the year—is distributed from the first day? There is one reason: there are elections! And you are making this budget thinking about your political survival! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] The second sin is to be a Budget that does not push the economy, before the stagnation. It is a budget that treats entrepreneurs and those who want to invest badly. Examples? It is not only the fact that they continue to fail to comply with the IRC agreement (tax on the income of legal persons) or that they do nothing to stimulate investment. It is also the fact that tax instability is aggravated, that the costs of context on companies are compounded when taxes are increased, for example on buildings, offices, gas oil or even judicial costs. But more symptomatic than anything they say to entrepreneurs: "They engage in a successful economic activity and there will be the socialist government to charge, punish success with more taxes! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PSD applause.]] That's what they do with local housing tax, that's what they do with property tax! You don't like investment, you don't like investor success! The third sin — which is to be developed by my colleagues — is a budget that exacerbates social inequalities with the indirect regressive taxes, with that decision not to give an extraordinary increase in pensions to the minimums, while releasing the extraordinary contribution to the highest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u18	Mr President, as is evident, and as is customary in these debates, the time that is being spent most is discounted in the overall time of the parliamentary group itself. Anyway, I wanted to stress that he had five minutes to do this and that he had already spent 9 minutes and 22 seconds. But please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u19	Of course, Mr. President. The fourth and last sin is a budget that insists on a wrong budgetary policy. They said they turned the page of austerity but, after all, what they do is transform the temporary austerity of the crisis into permanent, normality. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] They bring more and more taxes — we count at least 12 — they continue to increase public spending, after a four-year trajectory in which it was reducing, and above all, they increase public spending, especially the current, to satisfy, in the short term, certain electoral groups preferred! But it is also a wrong budgetary strategy when it causes public services to be defined by crushing investment and consumer purchases, or when public debt reaches records. For example, they exacerbate public debt when they decide to postpone early repayment to the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ), which costs millions and millions of interest to Portuguese. Before I finish, Mr Minister, I would like you to explain these choices to the Portuguese. We welcome the government's commitment to budgetary consolidation, but we disagree on the road, that way of rising expenditure in the short term, which does not allow taxes to be reduced globally. The tax burden does not diminish, Mr Minister — UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) has already said so — debt does not fall, public investment and public services are sacrificed. This is your choice, it is a wrong choice and the Portuguese must answer for it all the members of the government, and also Mr. Prime Minister! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u20	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u21	Mr President, Mr Leitão Amaro, I see that you do not recognize what happened during the period when you had government responsibilities in the country. 250 000 young people from the active population came out during the four years they were in the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. Deputy, unfortunately for the world economy, 2016 was a very marked year of slowdown of growth. All international institutions demonstrate this slowdown and these revisions of the projections that existed at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u22	This is false to the euro area!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u23	I note, moreover, that the revisions to the whole of the advanced economies are much higher than those for the Portuguese economy. The Portuguese economy resisted this slowdown better than the other economies. [[CDS-PP protests.]] We are a small and open economy with a large export sector — we are all proud of it — and these indicators obviously affect that economy. However, Mr President, what is even relevant to the available income of the Portuguese is the increase in wage mass by 5, 1 % in August and September of this year compared to the previous year. Do you know why the available income figures have the information that you have given — even if it is wrong — because the fall is much lower? Because you retained EUR 900 million in refunds last year, which the Portuguese paid and which were returned in August and September. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It is EUR 900 million plus reimbursements! You made an online game about the overtax, that we all remember, that it was discontinued precisely in October 2015 a few days after the elections, when before you were going to return 35% of the overtax, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If you want to talk about overtax and stuff, look at the side, don't look at me! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u24	Mr Leitão Amaro excuse me for coloring when it comes to overtaxing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u25	Mr. Member, I just hope you got something out of the online game, because the Portuguese didn't come out! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] There's no increase in taxes, there's a drop in tax burden! I'm afraid Mr. Deputy, in the tax bill he made, until he's let himself sleep before he gets to 12! There is no such thing, that is absolutely false! Tax policy is the most stable of the last few years in Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The decisions of this Budget are very clear and the 22 seconds are sufficient. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u26	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr. João Paulo Correia, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u27	Mr President, before I begin my speech, I would like to congratulate you and congratulate you on another anniversary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u28	Thank you very much, but I think they have no budgetary effect, neither in national accounts nor in public accounts. [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u29	It is a neutral greeting, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Minister for Finance, all budgets represent choices and this budget assumes a central choice: the recovery of family income by reducing the tax burden on labour income and pensions and improving the conditions of the labour market, employment and wages. On the other hand, we know what choices the PSD and CDS would make for this Budget: they would choose to cut wages and pensions, they would choose to keep the overtax and choose to cut 600 million euros in pensions, while choosing to give their hand to Galp, REN (National Electric Network) and EDP (Energy of Portugal) by eliminating the extraordinary contribution of these companies to the energy sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the choices are brands and this Budget has the marks of government and parliamentary agreements with the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens. First mark: credibility. This is the first Budget, since 2011, which does not happen to a corrective budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a budget which is based on a successful budget implementation. It is a legitimate budget in the reliability of forecasts because, as the Council considers, « the macroeconomic scenario underlying the Government proposal presents statistically plausible projections ». Second mark of this Budget: rigour. This is the first budget since 25 April which starts with a clearly below 3 % deficit and points to a clearly below 2 % deficit. This budget represents the real clean exit, which will lead to the exit of our country from the rise of the excessive deficit procedure and which will definitely place our country outside the radars of sanctions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Third mark: responsibility. This budget reconciles measures to reduce the budget deficit to 1 6 % of GDP, while developing policies leading to unemployment reduction and job creation. Unemployment falls in the same period as the active population grows for the fourth consecutive month. Employment grows sustainably. Today, there are more 91,000 jobs than a year ago. Fourth mark of this Budget: more state in public services and social protection. This Budget reverses the policy of the previous Government, PSD / CDS, less state in public services and social protection. For the second consecutive budget, there are no privatizations and also for the second consecutive budget, several situations of subordination in the areas of health and education conveyed in the budgets of the previous Government, PSD / CDS. We see the case of health: the 2015 health budget pointed to a deficit of EUR 30 million. After all, according to the INE ( Instituto Nacional de Statística ), the deficit reached was EUR 472 million, i.e. the health area suffered in 2015 a budgetary increase of EUR 440 million. Let us now look at the case of education, comparing what is comparable, i.e. initial budgets with initial budgets and budget implementation with budgetary implementation. We begin with the initial budget approach: between 2012 and 2015, the initial education budgets decreased by EUR 700 million. With this government, the initial education budget rose from 2015 to 2016 and rose again from 2016 to 2017. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us now see from the perspective of budgetary implementation: between 2012 and 2015, the budget implementation in education dropped 473 million euros, representing a flagrant disinvestment of the previous government in this area. In 2015 alone, the gap between the initial budget and the executed in education was EUR 385 million. Mr Minister, does all this prove or does it not prove that education has lived times of de-investment and subordination in the period of previous governance? Confirms that the 2017 Budget provides for the largest investment in education since 2013? Fifth mark of this Budget: social sensitivity. It is a Budget that gives continuity to the income recovery policy: the overtax of the IRS will be phased out; the salaries of public administration workers will be paid in full throughout the year; the meal allowance will be increased for public administration workers; the solidarity supplement for the elderly, the social income of insertion and the family allowance will be strengthened; the extraordinary contribution of solidarity will be eliminated; the pensions will be increased. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In January, the automatic update suspended by the previous Government by 2015 will be advanced. This automatic update will cover 2, 9 million pensions. In August, there will be an extraordinary increase, up to 10 €, for pensions that were frozen between 2011 and 2015. This extraordinary update will cover 1, 5 million pensioners. Mr Minister for Finance, the PSD and the CDS withdrew the solidarity supplement to 70 000 elderly to finance the increase in part of the minimum pensions, leaving out of the updates 771 000 minimum pensions for four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I wanted to put the poor on the right against the poor. Where PSD and CDS see social expenditure, we see social investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this measure, we consider that the 2017 Budget, by increasing pensions at the same time that reinforces the solidarity complement for the elderly, continues the most effective path in combating poverty. Sixth mark of this Budget: stability and reduction of tax burden. This budget continues to reduce the tax burden. It is a Budget that maintains the weight of indirect taxes well below the objective set by the previous Government in the 2015 CEP ( Stability and Growth Programme ). That is, the weight of indirect taxes remains well below 15, 2 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Minister, the right has come in the wrong way: the PSD and the CDS have failed all budgetary targets; the PSD and the CDS have been unable to govern without amending budgets; the PSD and the CDS have been unable to govern to reach a deficit below 3%; the PSD and the CDS were convinced that the economic and budgetary strategy of the current majority of parliament would lead to negative results in the short term — they have been misled! ; PSD and CDS put everything on plans b, that never existed, and on additional measures, that never arrived. In May of this year, Maria Luís Albuquerque, who as Finance Minister failed all the budgetary goals, had the spurious to come to the public to defend that government forecasts are unrealistic. Unsatisfied by not winning a single prophecy, Maria Luís Albuquerque went up the stop and last September proclaimed, in relation to the 2016 deficit, that the goal would not be 2, 7 % or even 3 % — at all! Political blindness was so far away that less than a month ago we heard a PSD leader, Leitão Amaro, announce that the data of the 2016 budget execution were falsified.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u30	No, no! That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u31	After a few days, the Banco de Portugal's forecast for the 2016 deficit at house 2, 5 % ruined once again the obsessive, catastrophic and arrogant speech on the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u32	Mr João Paulo Correia, I say the same thing to Mr. PSD Member Antonio Leitão Amaro recently said: the 5 minutes he had already been widely exceeded, but as they are being discounted in the overall time of the PS Parliamentary Group, it can continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u33	I will finish, Mr. President. PSD and CDS have been announcing misfortunes that are not happening for a year. The deficit d came out of the official discourse on the right, but also quickly they were forced to shake the unemployment d from the same speech. Long goes the time when Passos Coelho defended that lowering the minimum wage was the most sensible measure to combat unemployment and far goes the time when Passos Coelho defended that increasing the minimum wage was an obstacle to job creation. The minimum wage has been increased, unemployment has fallen and employment has grown. Minister, the right thinks the country might be better without the Portuguese being better. We believe that the country is only better because the Portuguese live better. The economy needs this budget, the Portuguese need this budget! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u34	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u35	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, the Budget has three essential pillars: the recovery of income from businesses and families, which is done by tax and in the labour market; the capitalisation of companies and the recovery of their investment capacity and the creation of new and better jobs; and the recovery of the financial system. None of this was part of the brevary existing in the previous government. It seems obvious that it is. We have drawn up a path in which we believe and in which we achieve results, but for example, we have failed to predict the growth of the employment rate and the reduction of the unemployment rate. Today, the employment rate is higher and the unemployment rate is lower than we expected in the State Budget for 2016. This is probably the result of the policies we have implemented. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The confidence in the economy arises in the most atomised investment that exists in an economy, which is job creation. Job creation shows the confidence we have in ourselves, in our resources and in our qualifications. That's what it's hard to see, but that's exactly what's happening. To this end, we will maintain the policy of reducing the tax burden, particularly on direct taxes; we will maintain the income of pensions with real earnings; we will bet on the capitalisation of companies, which is the only way to have a robust productive fabric capable not only of exporting but also of satisfying the needs of the internal market; and we will certainly bet on the stabilization of the financial system, which many who have not tried in recent days desperately do not allow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u36	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, the budget debate is still on the table and we have seen the difficulties of the PSD and the CDS to make a robust criticism. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, take it easy! I have already had the pleasure of being with CDS Members twice discussing this Budget in general with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u38	It's true! You've forgotten!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u39	Say something about the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u40	So I can say something about the arguments that have been used in this long and repeated debate on this budget that we are now discussing. It seems to me that what was the advance in these two long hearings and what Mr Leitão Amaro of the PSD said show, yes, the inability of both the PSD and the CDS not only to present a structured, robust, budget-consistent criticism, but, more than that, to bring a political alternative to the country. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The right has said everything and its opposite on this Budget. They want everything and they don't want anything! Let us see what happened yesterday in the debate with the Minister of Finance: a PSD Member regretted that the defrosting of public service careers was only done in 2018, adding that it was a lack of respect for public officials. Next, another PSD Member criticized the government for having returned 35 hours, i.e., criticized the replacement of a basic right of civil servants. They say everything and their opposite! The PSD and the CDS accuse the Government of taking over budgetary expenditure, but at the same time demand that more be spent on the same headings in which they accuse the Government of spillovers in budgetary expenditure. They say everything and their opposite! They want everything and they don't want anything! But it was in the attack at the famous rate on the millionaire real estate that the right most skated, and I think that 'kappanou' is the right word. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The tax began by being an attack on the middle class and the right cried by the middle class. When the ambush became unsustainable, the tax was an attack on investors and the right cried by investors. When they realized that even Pedro Passos Coelho, when he was a candidate, deputy and Prime Minister, presented a measure that had exactly the same principle and that went in the same direction, after all, the tax, which was an attack on the middle class and then was already an attack on investors, it was mild with investors, with the rich and with the offshore. In the midst of so much emotion and so much weeping on the right because of the tax of heritage, the truth is that we have come to this debate on the Budget and nobody talks about the tax, because it is, yes, part of a just measure, an effective measure and a measure that will bring fairness to the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Minister, this budget has faults and limitations — and we will already debate them — but it is a budget that makes very concrete choices for fairness and the valorisation of work. And, in making these concrete choices, it is a Budget that exposes the depth of the ideology of the previous Government, but more than that, it also exposes the emptiness of alternative that the right has for the country, because, when it was necessary to choose, the right chose to reduce the IRC of large companies, increase the IRS of workers and let family housing be confiscated by the tax, which this majority fortunately prevented, by reverting these decisions. [[Congratulations from BE.]] When it was time to choose, the right chose to present to the Constitutional Court an unconstitutional cut in pensions: I was going to cut off pensions. When it was time to choose, the right remained frozen 771 000 minimum pensions and 250 000 pensions below 250 €. Some pensions have increased discriminarily, but have chosen to do so by cutting it into the solidarity supplement for the elderly and throwing 72 000 elderly in our country to poverty. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] These were the choices of the past, but I ask: what choices would I make today? In its programme, it was freezing pensions and Brussels promised a cut of 600 million — mysterious! — which they have never been able to explain. This Budget does the opposite: it increases the solidarity complement for the elderly, freezes by law all pensions up to 848 € and increases extraordinarily 10 € all pensions up to 630 €, which had so far been frozen. To do this will not cut into the CSI, the CSI has been reinforced. To do this, he chose to make up for a luxury property tax. To this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is called fairness and justice in budgetary choices. [[Congratulations from BE.]] With the right hand, the maintenance of all cuts in social support was approaching. This budget chooses the opposite; it defuses the indexer, increases the CSI, the CSI and the family allowance, and chooses to compensate for these choices by reminding Banco de Portugal that it has an obligation to hand over to the State party the profits of the public debt, because this money belongs to the citizens and to the State and not to the Banco de Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is to increase fairness and justice with the Budget. Mr. Minister, never, Budget after Budget, the right has given one cent more to education. It was EUR 2860 million of accumulated cuts in budgeted values. The first reinforcement in an education budget is 2016 and the second reinforcement is 2017. When we compare the values executed, 2016 is the first year in which there is a budgetary reinforcement executed in education, and it is not small: 286 million euros. We know very well that the right criticises the subordination of EUR 247 million in this Budget for Education, but the truth is that the right left 729 million in 2015 which has never been budgeted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u41	Where is that?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u42	And so it was in all three years of the previous government. Mr Minister, the history of historical cuts on the right does not console us, because the truth is that education remains overwhelmed, health needs resources, public investment has never been so low and all this happens when Mr Minister has presented to the Assembly a budget surplus of EUR 5276 million. All this budgetary surplus, in a state, in a country, which is a money making machine, is going directly to the payment of public debt interest, and does not arrive; we still need to divide ourselves into more than EUR 3000 million to pay the interest of public debt. We are indebted to paying for a public debt that we will never be able to pay, and this is the reality of budget numbers. We know that the right has no alternative, but it exists. And the day when we know that France has spent the last few years, under a secret agreement with the European Commission and also with Durão Barroso, not meeting the deficit targets, as it is explained that Portugal, one of the most difficult countries in the euro area, can afford to present the European Union's largest primary budgetary balance? Mr Minister, we need to explain where the resources for growth, employment and public investment come from. That is a lot we have been able to do with this budget, it is progress, but the fact is that the country needs much more in budgetary matters than what is in this budget and that is the way we have to go. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u43	What I said earlier about the ladies. Members of the PSD and PS also apply to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, that is, the time you spent most on your request for clarification will be discounted from the overall time allocated to your parliamentary group. In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u44	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, as you know, this Government has fought with the European Commission and its Eurogroup partners for a reading different from the rules in the Stability and Growth Pact. The way we are going — in fact, the State Budget Report has very important information on this matter — is a way in which we must fulfil our obligations to have credibility and to have a voice in this matter and in this debate, which is very important and, I fully agree with you, crucial to the future near the Portuguese economy. Portugal must have a reduction in the interest rate paid for its debt, an indebtedness which has historical reasons, which we can obviously debate, but which is the responsibility of the government to honour. This debate can only be held in a European context, the government is prepared to do so, and indeed it has done so at European level. The fact is that the fiscal stability we introduced this year in the Budget will contribute to economic growth, will contribute to the possibility of maintaining a path of recovery of income and social support, which is included in this State budget, and will contribute, in the future, to a different attitude on these matters, both internally and externally. Madam Member, we share your concerns about the weight and problem of debt issues, we must continue to address them, and we must operate on them on a European level and on a dialogue plan. That's the trajectory we defined. The truth is that the effort made this year—that is why a budget is about collective efforts—to recover pensions is, as I said, a significant effort, but we are all aware of how far it is from the goals we want to achieve. In my initial speech I pointed out precisely the need for this to be a way forward. The objectives and results that we are having, for example, in the labour market, make the right sense of the choices we make, but it is a job to continue for the years ahead and, in that sense, we may have the discussion that has prompted your questions here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u45	To request clarification by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cristian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u46	Mr President, Prime Minister, you steal from the debate, you hide behind your paragraph 4 in the hierarchy of government and I have to tell you that I can even understand why. It is that what is presented today in this House is not a real State budget, I would say that it is little more than a government survival bill, it is basically a correct account of the accounts that you managed to do, much on account of the middle class, with the left that support it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u47	This budget, in our view, is so weak that Mr. Prime Minister chose to hide, chose not to look for him.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u49	But there is also another explanation, which is that you should not have to subject yourself to the inconvenience of explaining to us how it is that you do not increase the lower pensions of the lowest, pensions of 200 €, and you have no problem with the lack of transparency, shameful, in the General Deposit Box process. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But don't worry, Mr Prime Minister, because, both in terms of transparency and in terms of wages, we will ensure that this budgetary procedure does not end without the two issues being clarified and voted on in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u51	Mr Prime Minister, I have to tell you that whoever steals this debate—I have seen it and only 20 years ago has happened something like what is happening today—who does not want to respond in the House of Democracy, in fact, does not show today, in Portugal, respect for the Portuguese and shows, in addition — and, I would say, this is something new to me — a certain cowardice. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The country deserved a Prime Minister who gave his face for his Budget, who gave his face for his options, good or bad, and not a Prime Minister who stole from the parliamentary confrontation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u53	And that's all you have to say about your State budget: it's so little that you don't even have the courage to defend it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But let's go to the so-called State Budget. In the CDS, we feel that this is not a debate to be devalued and therefore I am very pleased to ask Mr Finance Minister questions. Mr Minister for Finance, representing Mr Prime Minister, who is hiding next to you and who is not worthy to answer yet, I will make the four-point framework and leave three very specific questions to which I would like to be able to answer. First note: this budget is marked by a hidden budget. And hidden why? Because you had version 1 and, less than 15 days later, you had version 2. In fact, because of much of the opposition's insistence, version 2 appeared and we saw that in 15 days this was a Budget that disbanded and in which suddenly the increases became cut, as we saw in education. But we also saw that this version 1 of the State Budget has fully fulfilled its propaganda function. And I have to take off the hat from the Socialist Party and its partners because they do this very well. This is the budget that tried to deceive Parliament with absolutely incomplete versions, and I would say that I am not only surprised by the resistance to hand over documents to Parliament because we also know the history of Mr. Prime Minister when he was in the Lisbon Chamber, where he acted exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u54	There are things that never change! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u55	Second note: this budget is part of a deficit of 2, 9 % assumed in the State budget. In addition, it would be good for Mr. Minister of Finance to recognise and underline this issue, which concerns the year 2015 in which economic growth was 1, 6 % and where the debt trajectory was declining. What do we see now? Where does this Budget find a vision for the country? My answer is simple: it is not found! Where is a strategy for economic growth here? No sign of her! This is the Budget which has a huge lack of vision and is a mirror of the failure of government policies. The government has failed! And it was not only the government that failed, it was also the studies, the projections, the proposals of the Minister of Finance, at the time Professor Mário Centeno. Where are the famous 3, 1 % growth for 2017 of the Centeno Plan, which should come to account for domestic consumption? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u57	2016, Minister, it was the year that it really fell, wasn't it? Oh, my God! 2016 was the year in which their 2, 4 % actually hit and after all they turned 1 to 1, 2 %— we're still going to see! This budget, I would say, would have been a good opportunity, Minister, to assume with humility that you have made a mistake and to correct the shot. It would have been very nice for you, academically, to have been very good for you, but it seems that these were a long time ago. Indeed, the Budget Report — allelujah! — finally, it assumes that domestic consumption has failed as a major engine of the economy, it refers to exports, it refers to investment, but it has a great problem: speaking is not enough, it is necessary to have the measures there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u59	And that's where the nine's proof fails round and round. Where are the measures to stimulate exports and investment in our country?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u60	The honourable Member is distracted...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u61	They're not here! They're just not there! What we see in this Budget is a huge tax fraud, Minister. A huge tax fraud with nine taxes rising and four new taxes. Where's the end of the surcharge? He's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u63	Where's the promised mix on the steps of the IRS, which was your promise? Oh, my God! He's not! Where is the VAT discount for electricity and gas, so close to the Left Block? He's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u64	Well, well! Ms. Assumption Cristas ( CDS-PP ). - So, what is it? There are the increases on gas oil, on the IUC, on AI, on local housing, on the IMI of the sights and the sun, the new property tax, the new sugar tax, on sugared and non-sugar beverages, now it is worth saying...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u65	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u66	That's all there, among many other things. So what I can conclude about this State Budget is more or less the same thing that we can conclude about the current one: take out with both hands what it gives with one, that is, it gives with one and pulls with both and that is why then the economy does not grow. And that, Minister, you should have learned already, but it seems you didn't learn anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u68	Thirdly, this Budget is therefore a missed opportunity in our perspective. Lost why? Because, Mr Minister, contrary to what you say, the international context is extremely favourable to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u69	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u70	Mr. Minister, Europe is growing. Spain, our main trading partner, grows above 3 %, the ECB has a favourable monetary policy, interest is historically low, the price of oil is very low. And what do we do? Instead of taking advantage of this favourable time to make an investment shock, which you wanted to do in consumption and failed, instead of using to repay the debt, and with this saving many million euros to taxpayers, you accumulate very expensive debts. Therefore, we have two bad news, the first being that debt is not diminishing. In fact, even today we were aware of the September figures and learned that the debt rose above the growth, struck a new record and was almost 132 % of GDP — 131, 9 % more precisely. The second bad news about debt is that Portuguese debt interest has gradually risen since January, contrary to what is happening with other countries, where it goes down, taking over the case of Greece, but we are worse. In order not to be alone in words and because I am generous to the Minister, I will not present three but a chart on debt interest, where all countries are showing to decrease, taking Portugal away, which is the champion of the increase in debt interest. [[At the moment, she showed a chart comparing interest rates from several countries.]] I'm asking someone to deliver the chart later. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Minister, the government option is wrong and it will cost taxpayers, as it will cost them very much 'to hang' the Budget on single and unrepeatable revenue, 300 million from the Banco de Portugal and 450 million from the PPP guarantee. It's serious and it's dangerous! Fourth and last note before the three questions: this is a Budget of deep social injustice. You increase not €10 but €4 — only €4 because you have to discount inflation and take into account that it is only from mid-year onwards — a set of low pensions, it is true, but leave out the lowest pensions of the lowest ones. And I ask you if it is just a pension of €7500 to have an increase of €263 and a minimum pension of €263 to have an increase of €1.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u71	1 €!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u72	What about families with children? It was very clear that the family quotient is — attention, Minister! — a progressive and redistributive mechanism. Those who pay 70 % of the tax had only a favourable impact of 40 % of the measure, which means that everything else has been redistributed, and the accounts are clear today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u73	It's so clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u74	For all these questions the CDS has answers. I would like to ask you three very clear questions that correspond to some of the very varied proposals that we have already announced that we will present during the debate on the State budget. The first is too obvious: are you, or are you not, available to correct the enormous social injustice and increase the minimum social and rural pensions, which are the lowest pensions of the lowest?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u76	Second question: are you available to reintroduce the family quota, proven that it has now become clear figures that this is a progressive and redistributive measure? Third question: are you, or are you not, available to approve tax credit for investment, recognizing that here we need to do more, and also to resume the path of decreasing IRC, in order to have fiscal stability and conditions for more and better investment and for companies to feel the confidence that they do not have, quite the contrary, because their Budget, contrary to what you say, is the Budget of instability? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u77	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to repeat what I have already said, so I will only tell the government that it is also easy to exceed five minutes if you want. Mr. Minister, to answer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u78	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, I was listening to you trying to understand why this Budget comments on how it does so. It's just that I don't think he's yet pulled off Dr. Steps Rabbit's minister's clothes... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and the versions you are consulting are not those of 2017, are those of 2013, 2014 and 2015... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...because it is in these budgets that you find the measures you have referred to. There is nothing hidden, everything was very transparent, debated here with me for 9 hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u79	That's why I had to come here twice! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u80	Everything has been explained and everything is now understood. It is understood, for example, that the education budget increases, and increases for the first time since 2011. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is understood that debt goes down in 2017 and it is understood that the deficit goes down in 2016 and 2017. In fact, I don't know who fell asleep first, but the Member arrived at nine taxes and Mr Leitão Amaro had reached 12.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u81	It's nine with increases and four new!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u82	Yes, Mrs Deputy, there is no such thing, this is the Budget of greater fiscal stability in Portugal in recent years. The honourable Member spoke to me about the favourable context that Portugal is facing. It must refer to the fall in exports to Angola of 50 % and the fall in exports to Brazil of 35 %. Mrs Deputy, you understand the following: these new markets have contributed more than half of the country's exporting dynamics in the last five years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u83	What about Spain? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u84	It is precisely these markets which unfortunately now justify the very sharp slowdown of Portuguese exports in 2016. But Portuguese companies—I always say this on behalf of Portuguese companies and the honourable Member should show more respect for these companies—... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... increased their exports to other markets and thus promoted the growth of the Portuguese economy. Mrs Deputy, the interest is low because the economies are weak. Oil is low because economies are weak. It is exactly the opposite of what you want to understand. The macro-economics do not work as the honourable Member wants, it works as the rules of the economy determine. With regard to the first question you have asked about pensions, it also allows me to make it clear why I wanted to end the solidarity supplement for the elderly. The honourable Member does not know what is the role of supporting elderly people in Portuguese social policy! [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is a very large number of measures in our State budget that support investment in the area of tax credits. We can certainly counter these measures with which you have to present, but they are there. And they are there because the government believes that they should be and gives a very significant importance to investment. This is one of the pillars of the State budget. I am happy to know that he agrees with us and we can, of course, continue our dialogue on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u85	I call on the CFP Parliamentary Group Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of Finance, the evaluation that the CFP makes of the State budget proposal for 2017 does not fail to take into account two sets of different elements. On the one hand, a set of elements that we have seen as shortcomings, limitations in responding to the problems faced by workers, the people and the country today, with the necessary critical perspective regarding what are the options or acceptance of taxes that lead to these limitations, these constraints and those inadequacies in the responses that are given; on the other hand, a set of elements that have to do with the evaluation that make this not a proposal of Budget which constitutes a backwardness in the objectives of the return of rights and incomes that have already been achieved, which consolidates and progresses in many of the matters that have already been included in the State budget for 2016 and which are an element, which must be properly assessed, of replacement of rights and incomes, which point to a reversal of the path of aggravating of exploitation and impoverishment that has been followed by the Government of the PSD and the CDS. Mr Minister for Finance, I would like you to make it clear that on the part of the CFP we do not underestimate this general sense of rights and income replacement because it is not, in fact, irrelevant. We do this appreciation because we know what it took here, because we know the struggle that has to be stopped, we know the sacrifices that our people needed to do to stop this cycle of aggravation of exploitation and impoverishment that was being imposed by the PSD Government and the CDS, we know what it took to do to achieve these positive measures. [[PCP, BE and PS applause.]] Mr Minister for Finance, of course we have seen the effort which has been made to address the issues posed by the PSD and the CDS, but we also do not know that the anger of the PSD and the CDS is indeed not against this Budget, is against all that this Budget may contain, even if insufficient, but limited, in response to these demands that the workers and the people have been doing for four years to extract from their working conditions, from their living conditions, from impoverishment, from immigration, from poverty and poverty that the PSD and the CDS have been spreading through the country. [[PCP applause.]] This is the reason for the anger that the PSD and the CDS are holding back this debate on the State budget. It is against these measures, against these advances that are recorded in the response to the demands that workers and the people have been putting, moreover, rejoicing with all and any obstacles, with any difficulty or obstacle that may arise in the implementation of these measures. With regard to the first set of issues I have mentioned, Mr Minister for Finance, I would like to say that in our view the framework involving this budgetary debate and this State budget shows a growing need for rupture with the right policy and the adoption of another policy that confronts the constraints and constraints, external and internal, that the country continues to register. In our understanding, options are needed to address the constraints, pressures and blackmails of the European Union, to meet the rules and criteria of economic and monetary union and of the euro, which impose budgetary targets that are limiting the capacity to respond to economic problems, to address societal problems, to respond to the quality assurance of public services, to restore the rights of employees of the Public Administration and the business sector, in what is to do with their careers, with the prospect of professional evolution that continues to be narrowed, to combat precariousness, to the lack of staff in public services. We understand that we need a policy that is in fact facing the constraints of debt with its renegotiation, because we need, like bread for mouth, the resources that are currently spent on debt interests and which are still needed in support of the productive sectors, our agriculture, fisheries, industry, which are still needed for a public investment policy that opposes degradation, the obsolescence of equipment and infrastructures which, particularly in the past four years, with the PSD Government and the CDS, has been dramatically imposed and which today conditions the functioning of public services, which conditions the development capacities of our economic activities. It is obvious that these resources that are spent on debt interest are still needed for these objectives. We continue to affirm the need for a policy that also faces the great capital and the monopoly capital domain, particularly in the strategic sectors where this domain of monopoly capital, especially foreign capital, continues to condition and determine essential aspects of our national life and economic situation. Therefore, Mr Minister, of course these are elements that we record as justifications, are elements that underpin limitations and inadequacies that in other cases end up in what the Budget foresees, i.e., in response to economic and social problems, the structural problems of the country. With regard to the second set of issues which I raised, it is obvious that for the CFP, the process of recovery of rights and income, which is continuing, and for which the struggle of workers and the people has been, and continues to be, decisive. The proposal for a State Budget, in addition to not taking any further options for aggravating exploitation and impoverishment, would be in progress if the PSD and CDS Government had been able to remain in office and if it continued to develop its policy, it also confirmed and consolidated progress achieved in 2016. For the first time since 2010, we are talking about a State Budget that points, for a whole year, to the recovery of wages and pensions without a single cut. It seems that, after all, the CDS, today, has already « bitten the language » with regard to the end of the pensions, and that Mrs Cristas, with the intervention she has just made, already criticizes the very proposal presented here by the CDS at the end of 2015 to end the ESC ( extraordinary contribution of solidarity ). It's another CDS inconsistencies, but it's still relevant to what's decisive. [[PCP applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] It is that, after all, as it is usually said, with truth they deceive us. After all, the CDS confirms, with this appreciation that it is doing here today, that it would prefer to have the cuts imposed with the ESC and that the perspective that the CDS has for pensions is not to ensure increases, it is not to ensure the recovery of purchasing power, it is to continue to impose cuts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u87	1€!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u88	... particularly those cuts which correspond to pensions of the contribution scheme, pensions corresponding to discounts that, for years, pensioners have made for a contribution scheme that the CDS intends to settle to favour private business with pensions. [[PCP applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] We note that this is a Budget which consolidates the replacement of the 35-hour working hours and holidays, which consolidates the commitment to update the IAS with the widespread increase in social benefits, which consolidates the reduction of the VAT of the restoration against that which was a truly liquidating measure in a sector of activity in our country, which consolidates measures to support long-term unemployed, which were, moreover, included in the State budget for 2016 on a proposal from the CFP. We know that if the PSD and the CDS had had no opportunity of these measures would see the light of the day and we would be discussing today a Budget for continuing the worsening of the situation that was created during the four years of the PSD and CDS government. Mr Minister for Finance, we believe that this proposal for a State Budget is not the one that the country needs, however, to open up the possibility that it should not be underestimated or wasted, of restoring and acquiring rights. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] We have already referred to what are measures which, in our view, although insufficient, are intended to reverse the restrictions imposed on the rights and remuneration of employees of the Public Administration, which, we believe, in the specialty, will have to have a broader response to this reversal. I also refer to measures relating to the introduction of a higher value real estate tax option,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u89	As long as it's not PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u90	...that, obviously, also in the specialty, can be developed, improved and corrected in some of its aspects. Another element which, of course, Mr Minister, we note how important it is with the advance in the freeness of school textbooks, with all that this means and with all that this has to be symbolic in the advance to a free public school. Another question, however, has to do with pensions, Minister. In matters relating to pensions, although the proposal which was included in the State budget does not correspond to that by which the PCP was beaten...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u91	The value of €24 was your price!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u92	... and although we are still convinced that the proposal for an increase of €10 for all pensions was the one that, in a fair way, corresponded to the aspirations and aspirations of pensioners, which allowed a more significant percentage of the lowest pensions to be valued, without also valuing pensions that corresponded to the contribution careers for which pensioners made their discounts and that, unlike the CDS, the CFP believes that they are pensions that should also be valued, despite our continued conviction that this was the proposal that, more clearly and appropriately, corresponded to the hopes and aspirations of pensioners, we could not devalue a proposal that means that about 98 % of pensions in the general social security system and the General Advisory Board will have an increase in 2017, and that 85% of pensions in the general social security system may be able to record this increase of €10. It is a proposal that we must value, because it actually points to a prospect of reversing the policy of impoverishment of pensioners and pensioners, which PSD and CDS have imposed. [[PCP applause.]] Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you three specific questions, the first of which has to do with energy contracts. We were yesterday, namely, through an estimate made by ERSE ( Regulatory Energy Services Entity ), that Galp, only in contracts concluded with Nigeria, accumulated between 2010 and 2016 476 million euros of income that, in our perspective, should be eliminated, reverting to consumers, reverting to the benefit of families and businesses, translating into lower rates. The proposal for a State budget already points to a perspective on the guarantee of power, but we also wanted to put, on this issue which has to do with energy contracts, the prospect of progress towards those objectives. My second question concerns the hiring of operational assistants in public services. There are many shortcomings and inadequacies that are occurring in public services due to the lack of operational assistants. We note that, with the insistence that has been made, with the complaint and the proposal for solutions to these issues, the Government has already made a commitment to ensure the recruitment of operational assistants in schools to respond to urgent problems put there. We would also like to have a perspective on the part of the Government in a broader framework and even in the context of combating precariousness in relation to the hiring of operational assistants. Finally, Mr Minister, I am referring to a matter in which the CFP has sparked the discussion in the State budget for 2016 and that we would not fail to point out at the beginning of the debate on this budget. I am referring to the reduction of the special payment on account ( CFP ). We believe that the prospect of reducing the special payment on account, with the aim of eliminating it and replacing it with a fairer taxation mechanism for small and medium-sized enterprises, is a fundamental measure of encouragement and support for small and medium-sized enterprises. In the State Budget for 2016 we proposed a reduction to €850 and we are convinced that this was a matter in which, also having some advance in the specialty, it could correspond to an important measure that meets the aspirations and aspirations of small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, with a very significant economic impact. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u93	Mr. João Oliveira, he has beaten all the records in terms of exceeding five minutes, but without any problem, because the discount will be made in the time available to his parliamentary group. In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u94	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, I thank you for your questions. One of the most difficult aspects of the interpretation of the detractors of this government is precisely the seriousness and the degree of responsibility with which the dialogue has been done internally and externally. The successes of this government in the external and internal negotiation, in fact, make the detractors of this government and their supporters significantly angry. That is exactly the extent to which I would like to address the issues that you have raised. The problems of interest and debt, as I said recently, are problems that must be of great concern to us. Indeed, the debt trajectory, in October, will begin to be descending, because there is an intra-year debt trajectory that is affected by the payments and depreciations of that debt, which, in October, has a very large set of payments. It is clear that this trajectory cannot be analyzed month by month, it must be analysed in a longer time frame and that it is in this perspective that the measures and actions taken by this Government have been put in place. It is necessary to understand that consolidation of progress and progress in terms of remuneration, in terms of working conditions and in terms of conditions of social support should always be present in our discussions. That is exactly what we have done, and that is why in this budget we are consolidating progress that has been made before, that other steps are taken in the same direction, and in other areas, and that is what this Government wants to do throughout the legislature, surely in dialogue and with the support of the partners in the parliamentary framework. It is in this area that we can find numerous measures on public administration, from the beginning of the 35th hour, which have already been mentioned here, but also matters which will be presented in close proximity to this Parliament and which, in the Government's view, resolve part of the issues which Mr has raised, and well. I am referring, for example, to the elimination of the requalification regime and its replacement by the employment recovery regime, a logic of integration rather than a logic of segregation of public employment. This matter is of extraordinary importance, also to deal with the limitations on public employment, which you mention. In other words, the Government's perspective is that, by integrating civil servants, mobilizing them for mobility associated with valorisation, it can also better respond to the needs that often appear in certain services and that in others are less pressing. With regard to the question of the CFP, of the special payment on its own, it falls precisely into the field which you have referred to, in the discussion that we will have on the subject. It is a matter that the Government, as it did in the State Budget for 2016, will face constructively, open to proposals that may arise and that may be affordable. I do not deny you, as Minister of Finance, that we are going to have to comply with a certain budget restriction, but we are sure that we will find ways to accommodate improvements in the budget, such as that which you refer to in relation to the special payment on your own. This is the way we have proposed to govern, and this is the way we have been present, almost daily, in this Parliament, is the way we intend to deal with this fiscal year, which is a rigorous exercise of progress in areas very important to the population, to the workers and to the Portuguese pensioners. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u95	To ask for clarification, you now have the floor of Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u96	Mr President, Minister for Finance, I see - I am forced to make a previous note, because I heard Mr.António Leitão Amaro say that this Budget is a bad proposal, it is a wrong way that began in 2016 and will continue in 2017 and insist on a wrong budget policy. Now, we thought the PSD today, here, would say this Budget has an arrangement. And why? Why did we create this expectation? Because during the discussion of the State Budget for 2016 the PSD announced to the country: « We do not propose amendments to the State Budget for 2016 because this Budget does not have a possible arrangement» — words of Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, of the rostrum, when we have here made the conclusion of the debate, in general, of the State Budget for 2016. Now since the PSD, this time, presents amendments, this means that the PSD considers that this Budget, unlike the State Budget for 2016, has finally arranged. We will therefore expect the PSD to recognize it until the end of the debate. Mr. Minister of Finance, whether or not it agrees or not, pleases all the banks of this Chamber, the truth is that this Budget represents a continuation on the way started with the State Budget for 2016 and that it is being translated into the replacement of rights and the return of income that the PSD/CDS Government has removed to Portuguese families. It may be little, it may still be insufficient, but the truth is that this budget keeps the line started in 2016, which The Greens consider absolutely fundamental, even because it represents one of the assumptions for the feasibility of the Budget, generally by the Greens. But there is another assumption, which has to do with the need for greater investment, which also needs to be mentioned. in this regard, despite public investment, for example, in the railway, we still have the Greens' proposal on tax incentives for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to settle in the country. It is a measure which is not the solution, however, an excellent contribution to renaissance of local economies and to combat regional asymmetries and is also an effort to stop the desertification of the interior and to counter the tendency to abandon the rural world. Mr Finance Minister, it is true that the Government's proposal restores rights, returns income, but, in the Greens' perspective, it is still insufficient to respond to the needs and desires of families and those who work. Therefore, we believe that, in the stage of discussion in the specialty, this budget proposal can and should still be improved. There are, in our understanding, conditions to go further. For example, when we look at the forecast of costs with road PPPs, which will cost the State in 2017 more than EUR 204 million, and with an average profitability of 8 %, when we know that no bank currently pays an interest rate of 8 %, this circumstance should lead us to consider the possibility of renegotiating these same public-private partnerships. There would be more than a few million people who could go where they need it. at the level of tax benefits, Mr Minister, we value the reduction in the deadline for reporting tax losses from 12 to 5 years—it only benefited large companies and large economic groups—which was indeed an old claim from the Greens, but we think that it could go further in taxation of capital income, in particular with the elimination of the libertarian rate, a rate that continues to prevent capital income from being included within IRS. Therefore, Minister, The Greens appreciate the progress that this budget carries, in particular in terms of the return of family incomes, but we believe that it could go further and we hope that, in the field of expertise, it will be possible to walk in this direction, that is, to strengthen the social component but also to strengthen the environmental objectives. So we value what is done, and that's a lot, but we think we could go further. Nevertheless, Minister, I cannot fail to mention an element which seems very important to us in the analysis of this State budget. As it has certainly been noted, the centre of discussion of this Budget has nothing to do with the focus of discussions on the Budgets of the PSD Government and the CDS. And why? Because today the centre of discussion is whether what is returned to families is very or little, is sufficient or insufficient, arrives or does not arrive, but in the PSD and CDS budgets the center of discussion had nothing to do with returns, the center of discussion, what was discussed in the PSD and CDS budgets was whether what was withdrawn from families was very or little. So we stopped discussing the size of the cuts and started discussing the size of the returns. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] This shift from the centre of discussion makes all the difference in people's lives, and that is why we want to reaffirm it here. Finally, Mr Minister, I had a question to ask you, which relates to the fall in VAT in the restoration, whose increase was the work of the PSD and the CDS-PP, those of the custom when it was to increase taxes, and which, in fact, opposed the fall to 13 %. The question I had to ask you, Minister, was the following: with regard to the fall in VAT in the restaurant, is it possible to measure some results in relation, for example, to the creation of jobs in this sector? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u97	To respond to this request for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u98	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, the reading of the State budget is shared by the government in the extent to which this is a path we must follow, is a path that is taking the first steps. The measures we propose are the recovery of income, the promotion of the labour market, the creation of employment and support for businesses, in the dimensions which you also mentioned. As you know, there is a working group that will produce the first report at the beginning of 2017. This report will address the different aspects of the impact of this measure on the size of employment, the size of prices, the size of demand and will answer the questions which you have raised. Since the implementation of the measure, what I can tell you is that the VAT revenue in general is running well and that October has a positive revenue again. Let us hope that the Portuguese economy will follow the path it has followed so far, of acceleration and recovery, also in these dimensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u99	To request clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u100	Mr President, Mr Minister for Finance, first of all, we want to value and emphasize the Government's effort in the return of income and demand for revenue through indirect taxes, with an exercise that seems fair and balanced in this State budget. We must also extend our consideration to the investments planned for the education, health and culture sectors. However, in full ecological recession, and in the face of the greatest crisis, national and international, caused by climate change, we consider it worrying to cut 10, 5 % in the environmental budget, which continues not to be a priority for this government or for the parties that support it. Will the government expect to reopen the EUR 178 million cut in the environment budget with future incomes from the concession of oil and gas in Portugal — perhaps not, because if the planned financial return is already unrealistic the foreseeable environmental impacts are catastrophic—or through the strong investment in the country promised by transnational agreements such as CETA (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement) and TTIP (Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership)? These are businesses that may not be so profitable, judging by the historical example of the NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement) agreement, which destroyed thousands of qualified jobs. Or would the Government wish to reopen this amount through a budgetary strike with audits and renegotiations of the public debt? But in this case it is also possible to have expectations frustrated, because markets say it is best for the economy to continue paying an annual income of EUR 8 billion of speculative interest. Mr Minister for Finance, what measures does the Government propose to compensate for this budgetary hole in the field of the environment? Are we going to stay in the rhetoric of doing more with less? Words acquire courage in attitude. And if, on the one hand, the Government speaks of the urgency of adopting a circular and decarbonized economy, on the other hand, we observe the materialization of an anachronistic policy, which favours and subsidizes highly polluting industries, such as the intensive agricultural sector of meat and milk. More: we continue to maintain ideological theimosia linked to deep corporate interests in the energy sector, with the financing of the useless National Plan of Potential Hidroelectric Barriers, a mere business with deep impacts on public history, which destroys local and family agriculture and floods unreplaceable millennial valleys. Mr Minister for Finance, we are still living the time when economic agents are the most orderly. in this perspective of transition it makes no sense to maintain the exemption of the tax on petroleum products to companies that produce electricity from coal. It has been released today precisely that the Sines and Pego thermal power plants are responsible for 20% of the country's greenhouse gas emissions. Mr Minister for Finance, are you or are you not prepared to block this exemption already in this budget? The measures that the NAP will propose in the specialty can bring us closer to the so important objectives of the Paris Agreement, which are still insufficient. Scientific data are clear, climate change is not a whim of some alarmists. We want realistic policies that keep us away from the increase of 2 oC well before 2100. And, in view of this urgency, we can and should be pioneers. Germany, with a powerful car industry, is already moving towards the end of the commercialization of fossil fuel cars. What about Portugal? Mr Minister for Finance, does the Government accept the challenge of drawing the 2030 target to end up with the commercialization of fossil fuel vehicles in Portugal? Sweden has already allocated funds in its 2016 State budget to become the world's first decarbonised country. This is why we decided unilaterally to move forward with the exploration of oil and gas, mortgageting the tourism sector and the balance of ecosystems, against the will of the citizens and the autarchs. in this regard, the NAP will remain firm and coherent: if we defend that the country should abandon oil consumption, we can only defend the non-oil exploitation in Portugal. Finally, Mr Minister for Finance, Mr Prime Minister, Deputy Minister, I would also like to talk about progress, genuine civilizational progress, a cause which concerns many Portuguese people, who picks up the unanimity of this Parliament and who is bound to end the slaughter of pets as a form of control of the population. In order to ensure that the Portuguese and Parliament's unequivocal will is consistent, it is necessary to promote the establishment or reconstruction of official animal collection centres, as is the law. The NAP has already sent this proposal to the Government, with whom we are examining it, waiting for its natural reception. Mr Prime Minister, Minister for Finance, Deputy Minister, this is a scourge that has decades and that no government has ever undertaken to resolve. I challenge you to be on the right side of the history of this country's progress.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u101	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u102	Mr President, Mr André Silva, on the question that I have raised about the Ministry of the Environment, I would like to point out to you that in 2017 the budget of that Ministry will be 3, 5 % higher than the estimated implementation for 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u103	Ah, is the execution already relevant? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u104	It happens that, in the budget maps and in the budget programme of the Ministry of the Environment for 2017, there is indeed a decline, but this decline is explained by two very important factors, which relate to the reduction of both the expenditure in the Polis programmes, and in the Navy of the Parque das Nações and the Parque Expo. If we remove these effects, we have an environment budget that meets the challenges faced by this government in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In particular, either APA ( Portuguese Environment Agency ) or IGAMAOT ( General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and Land Planning ) grows significantly in 2017. That is the relevant dimension of the Ministry of the Environment's budget, for which I would like to draw your attention. With regard to transport policies, which refers to a general policy in the State budget, whether it bets on public transport in various dimensions, from the fiscal dimension and the incentive to use public transport, or to bet on public transport undertakings, with measures that will seek to respond to the enormous disinvestment that the previous Government has made in this area very important for our mobility and for the future of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u105	We are going to enter the second round of requests for clarification, which will have a joint reply this time by the Minister of Finance. Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u106	Mr President, Mr Minister for Finance, during this afternoon Mr Minister has had no ability, or will, to answer the general questions put by the opposition. But still, we do not give up and we will insist on asking you direct questions, to see if you can answer us. The first question that I put to you is very simple: did the Minister have an opportunity to read the State Budget Bill for 2017 which he sent to the Assembly of the Republic? With this proposal, Mr President, you can say 100 times that there is no increase in taxes, but that there is, there is! There are, and many, Minister! Many! [[PSD applause.]] And you know how? You lower some taxes for some to raise a lot of taxes for everyone! That's your choice, that's your choice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u108	But in the same way, we could ask if he also read the wrong that he sent us. It is because, for example, Mr Minister has repeated here that there is no reduction in expenditure on education, but what has given us evidence, as has been recognized even by government-supporting parties, that what is budgeted for 2017 is less than the estimated for this year. There's no increase, there's a decrease! Perhaps he did not read what he sent us, and therefore he could not be exact in his statement. Thirdly, according to what you say, we will have a few glorious years of growth. Mr. Minister, in 2015, the last year of PSD / CDS-PP governance, the country, after passing through a recessive moment due to the adjustment programme, was growing 1, 6 %. You come to power and, like any government, tell the people, the people, who rule: "We will make the country grow more, we want to give the country a better future. » What is the result? We will grow, at most, two thirds of what we grow last year and for the year we will continue to grow less than in 2015. Failure! Two years lost, Minister! I'm still approaching another area. There is a question of choice, of choices, as has been stated recently by some of the parties that support the government. There are indeed choices, Minister. It is interesting to see, for example, the Portuguese Communist Party very concerned with a contribution that affected pensions over €4600, because the choice is this. If you think we have no financial situation to give an extraordinary increase to pensions of less than € 250, how do you have the will — not to say anything else — to cut a contribution on pensions of more than € 4600? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u109	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u110	It is a choice, it is your option, with the support of the Left Block and the PCP. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] Mr Minister, it is a matter of choice, indeed. It is also a question of choosing to reduce the tax on real estate over EUR 1 million, which will in some cases pay 10 % of what it paid, in order to be able to tax, first, the generality of companies, the generality of business. [[PS protests.]] And then they say they want investment and growth of the economy. But there is one last doubt that I have to raise: are these choices ideological, Minister? Is it an ideological choice to cut a contribution on pensions above €4600 or to stop taxing the real estate at the level at which it was, more than 1 million euros, or is it a custom-made fact, made like others that you have already done throughout this legislature? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u112	Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u113	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, other members of the Government, Mr Minister for Finance, what we have observed in recent days is that the PSD and the CDS have finally come to this debate with a communication strategy that enables me to express myself, smells of naphthaline. The main idea behind this strategy is to divert all attention from the good proposals of the Budget, but also from the results of this government. It is all useful for the PSD and the CDS to avoid discussing a proposal that reduces deficit, debt and tax burden, without jeopardizing economic growth, according to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we know. As I said, this behavior is not new. Mr Minister for Finance, the Government has achieved a great victory with the European Commission by keeping the General Public Deposit Box — which the PSD did not want — with a restructuring and recapitalisation without State aid. A remarkable, surprising fact, even for the rest of the country. What did the PSD do? How did you act the PSD in your deepest patriotic sense? You asked for an inquiry commission at the General Deposit Box! This was the PSD attitude! It's true! With this, the PSD won the battle of political chicana, as it has been observed every day, obviously damaging the restructuring of the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u114	You can't be rapporteur!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u115	But before that, Minister for Finance, the Portuguese Government had already prevented Portugal from being punished for its failure — another — of the 2015 deficit. What did the PSD do? You've distracted the attention again. It circulated the idea that possible sanctions did not originate in the 2015 deficit, but in the 2016 budget programme. Once again you saw the patriotic sense of PSD! After this, the action of the Government and the available data show today that the country should leave the procedure due to excessive deficit, as a result of good macroeconomic performance. What did the PSD do? He launched the idea of a supposed collapse of confidence in Portugal. And he did so even when all international agencies and independent external entities, and even the European Commission itself, appeared publicly to oppose this diabolical version of the collapse of trust. Sorry, not all; except Mr. Schäuble. With this Budget, the Government now submits a document with the fulfillment of promises and with the guarantee of acceptance by the European Commission. Agree on the structural deficit and reduce the deficit again. What did the PSD do? He said he was in the dark and he wanted more maps and more graphics! He even asked for another parliamentary hearing to speak, as Mr. Minister for Finance said for 22 seconds on the subject on which they wanted to know more. They've actually won one more battle, ladies and gentlemen. PSD members, but this time it was the battle of Azedume, especially when they realized that the pictures and the graphics did not help the party of distraction for this good budget of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the middle of all this, and before the confirmation of the end of the overtax in 2017, what did the PSD also do? He spoke in trafly, thinking obviously that the Portuguese had already forgotten the novel of the return of the supertax in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, I conclude by asking two questions now about the Autonomous Region of Madeira. We have heard in this Parliament, more or less constantly, of a supposed remarkable budgetary performance of the Madeira Government. The question is whether or not it is true that the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions, approved by the PSD and the CDS, in its articles 16. o and 40. , can it force money to be returned for the bad government results of this PSD government in the Autonomous Region of Madeira? I still have one concern: in four and a half years, the PSD and CDS did nothing in favour of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. In fact, we did more in six months than they did in four and a half years! That is why the request made by a card of requests ranging from freighters, ferry ships and hospitals does not reveal, Mr Minister, a lack of shame after they have been blind, deaf and mute for four and a half years? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u116	To request clarification, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, a year ago we had a hit right, perplexed by the political solution that had just removed her from the government. A year later, this right sails in sight and explores one case today and another tomorrow, rejecting newspapers looking for elements that it considers uncomfortable for left-wing parties. It's not worth it, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that this is not, nor could it be, the budget of a party with 10 % of the votes in the elections, but it is also not an absolute majority of one party, nor that of the centre. And how do you notice that difference! On the part of the Bloc, we have achieved approximations, we have checked differences with the government and here we are to answer for our mandate and therefore to answer two main questions. First: Does the Budget attack wages and pensions or increases taxes on essential goods? Don't! If it is true that the tax burden is low, it is also true that its weight moves to the shoulders of those who can afford the most, starting with those who have great real estate fortunes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u119	Second: are new advances in the replacement of rights and incomes confirmed? Yes, in social support, in the minimum wage, which will not be less than €557 in January, in combating precariousness and, above all, in consecrating the greatest increase in pensions in 10 years, an appreciation placed by the Left Block at the centre of budgetary negotiation. This budget also respects the principles signed a year ago and has the mark of this ant work done by the Left Block with the Government since then. [[Protests by the members of the CDS-PP Nuno Magalhães and Cecilia Meireles.]] Mr Minister for Finance, we also confirm in this Budget, in health and education, in public investment for employment, the limitations which we have always said would result from the Government's subordination to the European budgetary targets, indeed correcting, budgetary targets imposed on Portugal, because of Europeans having very little, as has been seen extensively. I ask the Minister, then, how does he assess European taxes in the light of the 2016 budget implementation and its 2017 forecasts. How much growth and employment has been lost thanks to the ban on the lowering of the TSU of workers with wages below 600 € that the government provided for in the 2016 draft budget and which Brussels killed? How can we expect it to end the stagnation of public investment when we are afraid to be the last of the good students of the objectives of the budget treaty? We need another answer, Minister, because Portugal is Portugal. It is a country devastated by austerity, unemployment and mass migration. So do not tell us that a credible response depends on the wisdom of the same European institutions which have humiliated our democracy and mistreated our country, while opening up all the exceptions as it has now seen in the secret agreement which exempts France from the absurd goals imposed on Portugal. This Europe is a swamp of arbitrariness and cheating. In response to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the Minister assumed that our economy needs a reduction in the debt interest rate, but no credibility comes from the idea of waiting for the wisdom and balance of these same European institutions which throw against us the blackmail of sanctions or the intrusion to the cent in the democratic decisions we have taken. A little bit of austerity and debt policy, just as it has us children, this Europe has already been stagnation for a decade, so we cannot expect anything else in Portugal while waiting for a miracle in Europe. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u120	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u121	Mr President, Minister for Finance, Dr Mário Centeno, wanted to begin with a concordance with what I said in the opening speech of this Budget. V. Exa said—and I will quote him: « No one will be up to the time when the country lives by resigning itself from its responsibilities at this time of national life». You're absolutely right. Given the approval of the State budget of Parliament's exclusive competence, this criticism which you made to your Prime Minister, who resigned from his responsibilities and did not present the Budget, has all the support of the CDS. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] But then, Mr Minister, on the other hand, in the initial intervention you did and in the answers you gave, I must say that you caused us some perplexity — which I would not like to qualify — for the political alienation you demonstrated on some subjects. So, will the overtax be returned, already in 2017, to everyone in its entirety? Does Mr. Minister really mean this? Aren't you gonna regret it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u122	If you read the CDS program, read 2019!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u123	Mr. Minister, time can deny it. This was the first question I wanted to ask you very directly. Does the Minister speak of fiscal stability and predictability, after the contest of ideas, among the parties that make up the majority, to which the country, astonished, has witnessed in recent months, about whom it increases and what taxes?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u125	After presenting a budget that moves in gas oil, in the IUC (the single traffic tax), in the AI (the car tax), in the local accommodation, in the IMI (the municipal property tax), on the basis of the views and exposure to the sun, in the real estate taxes, in the soft drinks, more or less sugary, comes about stability and fiscal predictability? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u126	He's distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u127	When the PS signed with the former Government a phased down of IRC and broke that agreement, do you still talk about predictability and fiscal stability? Is that how you qualify for this budget? With regard to public debt, the Minister here had a slightness which could be more difficult to defend afterwards — if I may be allowed to advise. The Minister provided that public debt would reach 124 % of GDP for the year. In the 2017 Budget, he fixed the shot and spoke at 129, 7%. Today, Minister, Mário Centeno, debt is 131, 9 % of GDP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u128	What's your number?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u129	And you say, "This is going to be for the year! Everything changes for the year! Everything's gonna be fine! Jehovah will not desert his people for the We already realize that this government has no responsibility! Either it's Angola, or it's Brazil, or it's Europe, or it's markets, but it's never this government! Mr Minister, taking into account your forecasts, this does not even seem to be true. It's really a façade! Therefore, Minister, how does it justify the fact that you planned for this year that public debt would reach 124 % of GDP, corrected in the 2017 Budget to 129, 7 % and today in November to be 131, 9 %?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u131	Mr Minister, this budget is, above all, a missed opportunity, as has already been said. If it had been done otherwise, there could be a gradual recovery of income and economic growth, but without the increase of all indirect taxes. And, perhaps, if the model VV. They chose to fail. Basically, the Mário Centeno plan was to have more private consumption, more growth, less taxes. Where is this plan, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u132	He's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u133	It's not in the drawer! He's going to the Portuguese purses through taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u134	He evaporates!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u135	You have evaporate, Minister! [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] We know that this was actually not your plan, Minister! This plan was from Mr. João Galamba! This is the truth. Mr. João Galamba once agreed and, with his usual modesty, said: “ If there is a Marshall Plan, there must be a ‘ Galamba Plan ’! ” [[CDS-PP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u136	That was funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u137	Go away and you invented this plan that convinced you, Minister! And that was dramatic for you ex! After all, more private consumption did not increase and this did not bring fewer taxes to the Portuguese, on the contrary. You promised to reduce taxes and recover income. After this « Galamba plan », he said : « No, we did not lower taxes, but to recover income we have to replace taxes ». What are you doing in this budget? They recover income, it's true, but they increase taxes! That is the question: give with one hand, take two, Minister! This is absolutely obvious. Finally, on minimum, social and rural pensions, you will have to answer. I am no longer talking to the PCP who planned, in November 2014, €25 increase for minimum, social and rural pensions and will vote for the increase of €1 tomorrow! Twenty-four euros was what it cost Portuguese pensioners with minimum social and rural pensions the fact that the CFP, at all costs, wants to maintain power. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u138	Not to mention the 6 % electricity VAT: another mistake and another mistake.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u139	You're in the government program? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u140	Mr. Minister, Mário Centeno, responding to Dr. Assumption Cristas, came to say: "Well, minimum social and rural pensions is not necessary, we have the solidarity complement for the elderly. It is the great bet of this government ». Mr Minister, in September, the budgetary implementation of the solidarity complement for the elderly was 5% below the budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u141	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u142	The forecast of execution, by the end of the year, of your dolls — those who did not want to give up, do you remember? And then he had to deliver and come here twice— he even reinforced that this execution will fall short of the budget. But worse than that, Minister, and that is why it is important that you respond clearly, I would like to know whether or not you are available to increase minimum social and rural pensions of less than 250 €. It is that the beneficiaries with solidarity for the elderly in December 2015 were about 166,000 ; in September 2016, they were about 160 000. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u143	The passion of V.E.A., of its government and of this majority for the solidarity complement for the elderly is to reduce, in a very short time, 6,000 beneficiaries. This is, Mr Minister, of the greatest evidence than this State budget: a missed opportunity, a trick that can obviously prove momentarily, but which, unfortunately, will cost the country and the Portuguese. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u144	To conclude this round of questions, before the answers of the Minister for Finance, Mr Paulo Sá, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of Finance, the State budget currently under discussion continues, although in a limited and insufficient way, the path of replacement of rights and income started one year ago with the defeat of the PSD/CDS Government and its policy of exploitation and impoverishment. A budget incorporating several positive measures that respond to some of the most urgent problems of the Portuguese people. And it is precisely because of these positive measures that PSD and CDS are against this Budget. These are the advances in rights and incomes, however small they may be, which leave PSD and CDS on the verge of a nerve attack, because what these parties really want, even though trying to hide it, is the continuation of their policy on the liquidation of rights and confiscation of incomes, political which, in good time, was defeated by the struggle of the workers and the people. Mr Minister, in tax matters, the budget continues to degrade the tax burden on labour income, although insufficiently. As we all remember very well, in 2013 the former PSD/CDS government imposed, at the headquarters of IRS, a real tax draw on workers' incomes, leading to an increase in the revenue of this tax in just one year. The State budget for 2016 began, and well, a process of reversal of this tax sack, with the reduction of the overtax and its elimination to 1. the step, with the prospect of its total elimination on 1 January 2017. However, in the 2017 State Budget, the Government intends to extend the overtax by the end of the year, although with lower rates at all levels. The CFP continues to consider that there should be an alternative to the maintenance of overtaxes, in particular through the adoption of more appropriate tax measures for large capital. As we believe that in the context of the Government's proposal, the elements relating to the taxation of higher incomes require consideration of other solutions in relation to lower and intermediate levels. The reversal of the tax sack carried out by PSD and CDS does not only result in the elimination of the overtax. It also requires an increase in the number of steps to improve the progressiveity of the tax, and lower rates at the lowest and middle levels, to relieve tax workers, pensioners and families of the lowest incomes. The budget proposal does not respond to this objective, but the CFP will continue to beat itself, including in the debate in the specialty, for these solutions to be considered. Mr Minister, there are two other relevant tax issues that we want to raise to you, in relation to the deductions of education expenses in the IRS and the new real estate tax. We have been discussing with the Government the issue of the deductions of education within IRS, identifying concrete solutions that allow us to move forward, already in this Budget, with changes to these deductions, aiming at greater fiscal equity and benefiting many thousands of families with lower incomes. In the discussion that we have been doing this was a prospect that has been built up and we would like to know whether the government is still opening up so that it is considered in the field of expertise. We also value the inclusion in the State budget of a new high-value real estate tax as a more appropriate tax measure of the great fortunes. But this tax must still be improved to overcome problems already detected. In particular, it should be considered a substantially higher tax rate for buildings held by entities based in offshore companies, as well as it should be ensured that those who pay the seal tax on buildings of more than one million euros must not now have a tax credit card with the IMI additional. No less important is the guarantee that productive activities are not paid due to the taxation of real estate assets affected by these activities. Also on this subject and the possibility of correcting the tax proposal and moving towards a more fair taxation of high value real estate, we would like to register the availability of the government. The CFP assesses the positive measures included in this State budget. But it also considers that it is possible to go further, particularly in those areas which we have just mentioned. The introduction of greater fiscal equity in the deductions of education expenditure and the improvement of the new real estate tax would undoubtedly contribute to improving the State budget for 2017. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u146	To answer the questions put to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, unfortunately, Mr Duarte Pacheco is not present in the Chamber, but I will answer the questions you have raised. He would have the chance, for 101 times, to hear me say that there is no increase in taxes and, if I could read in my lips, it would be a « two in one » : « There is no increase in taxes ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] With regard to the questions you have raised about education, I will also take advantage of some figures and the honourable Members. Members may take notes and then hand over to Mr Duarte Pacheco. In 2012, the budget implementation in education was EUR 6398 million. In 2015, it was EUR 5925 million and there was a fall. In the State budget, the initial appropriation in 2012 was EUR 6237 million. In 2015, it was EUR 5540 million and there was also a fall. In 2016, the estimate we have for the budget implementation in education is EUR 6122 million — an increase from 2015. In 2016, for 2017, we have an initial allocation in education of EUR 6023 million — an increase from 2016. These are the numbers of education, they are not so many that they cannot pass them to Mr Duarte Pacheco and stay with them to know the evolution of education. With regard to economic growth, we have already talked extensively about it here today, we have also talked a lot about it in COFMA, and I would like to remind the honourable Members. Members of the Portuguese economy, in fact, is in an economic environment to slow down growth. This slowdown, for example, meant that the OECD, in the last year, reduced the growth forecast of the advanced economies from 4 % to 2 %, 1 % in 2017 — less than 1, 9 percentage points — and it would indeed be extraordinary that this had not affected the Portuguese economy in the external dimension but unfortunately affected it and very much. The question you raised about the IMI is relatively simple to frame. In fact, the additional to the IMI, which replaces the tax that was paid on property taxes, is a real tax on property, includes the taxpayer's estate. For example, a taxpayer who had 10 houses of 900 000 € was exempt from tax; in the additional version of the IMI, pay effectively tax. This is called enlargement of the base. With the extension of the base it is possible to make a reduction in the rate. That's exactly what we did. Extending the base and reducing the rate is a sensible fiscal policy, because there is a notion of fiscal justice that must also be imposed in these circumstances. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I recall, moreover, that the existing tax was more a litigation for the State than an effective tax revenue. Mr. Carlos Pereira asked me a question about the Law on Regional Finance in Madeira and the answer I can give you is that the Autonomous Region of Madeira has had some difficulties in complying with the Law on Regional Finance, which have been accompanied by the Government. It is a very sensitive and relevant matter for budgetary implementation in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and for transfers obviously received from the State budget and it is a matter to which the Government will always pay more attention. But there is a situation of non-compliance. Mr Jorge Costa asked me the question about how we have managed to deal with the European Commission in a sensible and balanced way. In fact, I can add another expression to these ingredients, within a constructive but difficult dialogue, which is that of credibility. The only thing we cannot lose today, because we have recovered from what happened in the past, is credibility and credibility means saying in Portugal what is said in Brussels and defending in Portugal and making the same views published in Portugal as we stand for in Brussels. This State Budget Report therefore has an exercise of analysis, which I have not yet heard here in Parliament, in particular the opposition parties, about their true position in the face of the difficulties that the Stability and Growth Pact actually places on countries that are recovering and in a crisis-free situation. It is a very significant difficulty, the government has a very determined position on this matter and I will have to add to its two words the word 'creditity' and be confident that we can make progress on these matters in the European context. It is a difficult debate, probably long, but we cannot turn our backs on. Mr Nuno Magalhães asked me a question about contests of ideas. Idea contests were what existed in the last five years, but all the ideas that were the contest were implemented, because all the tax increases we have heard have actually been implemented. Now, Mr President, the contest of ideas, where I do not know whether or not you have participated, has not ceased to be that, a contest of ideas, because what is worth and what is important is the proposal of the State budget, that is what we are looking at here and to which I would like us to go, because we already have enough material, with many tables, as you well know, to be able to analyze this contest of ideas. The honourable Member also refers to the value of the debt and refers to a value as the value of November, but let me correct it, Mr Member, it is not November, it is September. And as I said in a previous reply in October, an obligation of the Treasury will be paid, of a value close to EUR 4000 million, which will reduce that public debt several percentage points exactly to the level entered in the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u148	Then deliver the tables! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u149	It is clear that income matters are very important and are also because of dignity — you know, Mr President?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u150	I know, sir. I don't know if you know!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u151	And dignity gains from the growth of employment...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u152	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u153	...and with the growth of the average wage. Well, that's exactly what's happening in 2016. In 2016, the wage mass is growing 5, 1 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What brings dignity to the Portuguese population is the fact that for the first time in the last four months, according to the National Institute of Statistics, the active population is increasing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u154	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u155	It is that, as I said in my initial speech, today we are more, but yesterday we were less.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u156	And a year ago we were more!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u157	And we were less because of a policy that invited young people to leave. That policy, of which it is obviously possible to draw back, or not, was wrong, Mr. And it was wrong, because it didn't add value to the Portuguese economy, it didn't add value to the future of the Portuguese economy and reduced its growth potential. He also referred to the issues of solidarity for the elderly. One thing I can assure you: if you are reading the articulated state budget for 2016 and the articulated state budget for 2017 you don't see any cuts in the solidarity complement for the elderly. On the contrary, there is an increase in the value of the solidarity complement for the elderly. [[CDS-PP protests.]] This year the implementation value rose by 6, 4 %; and for the year the forecast is 13, 7 %. And you know why, Your Honor? Do you know why you're going up? Because there was an improvement in the conditions of the solidarity complement for the elderly. It is a very important instrument for social policy that we will not abdicate. And for the year, the forecast in the Budget is, as I said, rising by 13, 7%. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Paulo Sá, the measures he refers to and which can of course be subject to improvement, in the discussion of the speciality, are measures that we will have and we will certainly discuss. There are certainly improvements to be made in this State budget, in the field of expertise. We are obviously open to this debate and will do so as soon as we have the opportunity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u158	We now move on to the second round of requests for clarification. The first recorded speaker is Mr Miguel Morgano, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u159	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, I cannot but begin by taking back what you said earlier, asking Mr Duarte Pacheco to read his lips, promising that there would be no increase in taxes. I recall that the last time a political leader made this number he was bitterly sorry until the end of his political career. It makes me feel sorry for what you just said, too. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u160	The former Minister of Finance has repented so much that she is not here to hear it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u161	But I listened carefully to your speech and the answers you gave. On the fulfilment of your mandate as Minister of Finance, I wanted to start by telling you something I have already told you here on another occasion. The biggest assets a Finance Minister can have are his credibility and his sense of responsibility. A finance minister who trades this for something else is left with nothing. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u162	However, its practical and rhetorical interventions are invariably marked by a logic of burned earth and extreme sectarianism, by a sequence of tricks, mystifications and fantastic arguments. And you don't even know how it turned out against you so easily. Recently, he recommended to my colleague Antonio Leitão Amaro that he look to the side, presumably to the former Minister of Finance, Maria Luís Albuquerque,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u163	Now see how you've noticed!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u164	...or to the former Prime Minister, Pedro Passos Rabbit. But, look, we understand very well why you do not look at the side: it is that, beside you, you have the ex-Ministers of the government of José Socrates, who have led the country to bankruptcy. [[PSD applause.]] And if you remember this elementary fact, you realize it's ghosts. You know what? of economic depression, unemployment and — see! — emigration. Without that, I'd run out of your rhetoric. But still yesterday in this Chamber, the Minister of Finance gave us another lyrical moment, and it was not his first lyrical moment, because his first lyrical moment was probably that of the so-called "Centeno Plan", of which there is obviously no trace left, in which also, once again, he did not realize how he would turn against him. Quoting the greatest Portuguese poet, Camões, did not realize that those verses, the verses he quoted, gave every reason to the PSD to condemn his serious violation of a duty that none of his predecessors dared to violate, that of the most elementary information and transparency. [[PS protests.]] Anyway, I know why, even though I'm reading aloud, you haven't noticed the meaning of the verses. It is for you that Mr Minister was saying other verses—which are also often declared here internally by other Members and by many ministers, starting with Mr Prime Minister—that say anything like this: 'If you do not want to take responsibility for your government, it attacks the opposition without brakes'. That's what we're in. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] But let me tell you that, although I am a great fan of Trucks, I do not think that the literary reference fits here in our debate today. Let me offer you another literary reference, since you gave that motto yesterday, I feel - I am authorized to do the same thing. The most appropriate literary reference for today, and for your mandate as a whole, is a story, written many years ago and very famous, whose basic plot everyone knows, and entitled The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u165	And you have nothing to say about the State budget? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u166	I am sure you know the story: Dr. Jekyll was a man of science, permeable to reason, aware of his duties and responsibilities, aware of the loyalty that is due to civilized and rational debate. But at some point he invented a potion and drank it when he drank that potion, he became Mr. Hyde. And is Mr. Hyde becoming what kind of person? In someone who abolishes all these rules, changes rationality by irrationality and plays in the trash all these rules of civilized life.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u167	You have to get an Oscar for this intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u168	So, you, like, since you drank that potion, what did you get? It has promoted an economic strategy, that this Budget is the death certificate. The State Budget for 2017 is the death certificate of its economic strategy, which has failed across the line. It failed to invest in economic growth, consumption and, as my colleague Antonio Leitão Amaro said, in the growth of the income available to families, it finally failed across the line. And what do you have now to propose as an alternative? Nothing! Zero! The government's economic strategy has disappeared and nothing replaces it. The country, from the point of view of economic and financial policy, is drifting away, is at the heart of waves and tides. And what else did you do? He claimed the turn of the page of austerity. Now, today, it is clear to everyone that austerity has not turned any pages. And we see this because the tax burden is rising already in 2016, and I assume it will also increase in 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u169	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u170	It's decreasing in 2017!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u171	We see this in the deepening of public investment, which was your decision, and we also see this in the extreme degradation to which some public services are coming, in health, in education, in transport, in justice and in other areas of activity. More than that, in presenting the State Budget, it starred at moments of pure propaganda, which were nothing less than a sequence of ambushes. There has already been talk here about the overload, but we have not yet talked about the ambush of updating the steps of the IRS, which will lead people to pay more IRS for the year, or about the ambush of pensions increased in August, on the eve of autarchic elections, at a time of flagrant electoralism and political opportunism. Nor has there been mention of the increase in taxes on fuels, which was announced as something that had fiscal neutrality, omitting the Portuguese people who, in every five liters of fuel they use, four are gas oil and only one is gas and, therefore, what compensation exists for reducing the price of a litre of gasoline at the same amount as an increase in a litre of gas oil? None! We will pay a lot more—and it is the families and companies that will pay more. There has also been no mention of the abuse of the acceleration of the implementation of the European funds. There was no acceleration. This government has delayed the implementation of the European funds. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u172	And the costs for the companies, which Mr. Prime Minister — today, so laugh and so willingly — on the trip to China, promised that they would not be aggravated in this State budget, will be aggravated. And they will be aggravated, first, by the property tax, which will be paid not only by natural persons but also by companies, second, by the brutal increase, which will occur in practice, the legal costs, which also involve the issues of tax litigation, and third, by IRC, because there is a cut in tax expenditure, which means that companies will pay more IRC next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u173	That's a nun!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u174	I could give more examples, but I will end with the question that you have been mentioning about the active population — above all, a domain of your specialty before you become Minister of Finance. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance said here, in this Chamber, that since 2011 there has not been a single month of increase of the active population—and reiterated that there has not been a single month. But just consult the INE monthly series to see that it was only 22 months. Mr. Minister has been deceived 22 times! And this is in an area of your specialty. For what? In order to be able to mitigate the economic stagnation that its strategy has caused. Then comes here to demand the « rents» of the creation of 90 000 jobs in the year beginning in September 2015 until September 2016. So, Mr Minister, what has all this time been responsible for mediocre economic growth with the slowdown in growth at the end of 2015 and to apologize with all this for the failure of your strategy, now calling for employment growth for your policies? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] Recently, Mr Minister rebuked my colleague Mrs Assumption Cristas, saying that the macroeconomic rules were not hers, they were everyone's. But look, here, in this case, it seems they're just worth it to you, they're not worth it to anyone else. And that's not acceptable. I will not give more details — I don't have any more time — to explain how Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde's story ends — I can only foresee that it ends badly. But since we are in Portugal, here the rule is that « Trucks with Trucks are paid ». So I also brought some verses to you, which I think will give you some thought. They say the following: « And I am already that I was so different/ That, when by my name someone calls me, / Pasmo, when I know, / That I still seem to myself». [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u175	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Lara Martinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u176	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government on the important, fair and balanced State budget they present in this House. Mr. Minister for Finance, after Mr. Miguel Morgado's intervention, it is clear that the PSD has nothing else to say about the Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in my speech, I want to address the State budget and convey two ideas. The first idea is that of consolidation and the second is that of deepening. Consolidation because if, with the State Budget for 2016 we started a new stage, a stage of change, of the turn of the austerity page, with the State Budget for 2017, we consolidate this stage of change. There is a change in the country, there is a change in public opinion, there is a change even in the role of this House and there is a big change also in the discussion around the Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] unlike the State budgets of the previous government, today we have stopped discussing cuts. The cuts in family income, the cuts in pensions. Today we are discussing increases, we are discussing how much is the increase in family income and how much is the increase in pensions. We continue to prove that another way is possible, a path that respects the European commitments and the commitments we have made towards the Portuguese. This is a big change, it is an important change for our families, for our businesses, for the autonomous regions, for our country. Mr Minister, the second idea is to deepen autonomy because it maintains the spirit of a new relationship with autonomy, which is now reinforced in the Great Plan Options and in the State Budget for 2017. There is a clear commitment on the part of this Government to continue the implementation of the commitments made in the framework of the health infrastructure policy in Madeira, to support the damage caused by the recent fires and the measures agreed under the joint declaration signed with the Government of the Azores. Let me highlight three aspects of this budget which I consider very relevant and innovative for the autonomous regions, particularly for the Azores. The first aspect is the creation of the participatory budget with a specific amount of €375 000 for each of the autonomous regions, which will allow the Azorians and the Madeirans to decide directly how to use these public funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second aspect is that this budget respects the autonomy and bet on the development of the Azores. This budget complies with the Regional Finance Act and transfers to municipalities are increasing above the average of the last few years, it safeguards that no project co-financed by European funds will be implemented for lack of funding, supports active employment and vocational training policies, ensures program contracts in the field of health and bets on the establishment of the International Centre for Research for the Azores and the Centre for the Excellence of the Atlantic. And finally, this Budget also responds to the legitimate demands of the Azorians with the realization of the installation of the meteorological radar network, with the implementation of the Third Island Economic Revitalization Plan and with the start of the project of the new prison establishment of Ponta Delgada. Yes, the Azorians have reasons to be satisfied with this Budget, even more so because these legitimate claims of the Azorians have never been taken into account by the previous Government, PSD / CDS. We wonder, then, that anyone who has done nothing would now say that all this is so little. But, Mr Minister, because this approach and this commitment to autonomy are so important and because there is still much work to be done in both autonomous regions, I ask you whether this path of consolidation with regional autonomy and sharing solutions with the governments of the two regions is to continue and deepen. We're sure we are. Tell us about it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u177	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u178	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister of Finance, the discussion of the State Budget for 2017 confirms two facts that were already known: the first is that the 2017 Budget guarantees more income to pensioners and workers, but it is necessary to go further ; the second is that the right is completely lost in this discussion, in addition to eloquently demonstrated by the last speech of the PSD Member. We've heard the PSD and CDS-PP say this budget is bad and weak. Why do you think he's mean and weak? Why do the Budgets for 2016 and 2017 guarantee more EUR 267 million in pensions? Why do the Budgets for 2016 and 2017 guarantee more EUR 251 million in social benefits? Why do the Budgets for 2016 and 2017 guarantee a net recovery of revenues of more than 1300 million euros? Yes, that's why PSD and CDS-PP consider this Budget bad! For PSD and CDS-PP, discussing a Budget is – as we have been accustomed to in the last four years – discussing cuts; how much to cut in each salary? How much to cut in every pension? How much to cut in every public service? This is the discussion of PSD and CDS-PP, not our discussion, not the discussion of this new parliamentary majority. And, therefore, some are out of play and others are effectively discussing the Budget. When there is a lack of arguments and when they really don't want to come here to expose their real project, or escape the debate or invent facts—and have recently invented a few. They say the Budget reduces the money for education and health—nothing more false! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] They say the Budget invests in public services — nothing more false! But we can do a comparison exercise. Let's compare budgets. In 2016, a transfer from the State budget to the SNS ( National Health Service ) of EUR 7922 million was planned, and the budgeting was EUR 7994 million ; for 2017, a transfer of EUR 8078 million is planned, the budget of the National Health Service is strengthened. What did PSD and CDS-PP do in the past? Let us see the Budgets for 2013 and 2014. In 2013 the transfer to the SNS was EUR 7801 million and the implementation was EUR 7882 million. In 2014, the transfer to the SNS was EUR 7582 million, there was a cut of EUR 300 million, which increased the chronic underfinancing of the National Health Service. I'm glad this Budget is not the PSD and CDS-PP Budget. As we all realize, there is an increase, there is an improvement, yet insufficient. Mr. Minister for Finance, in his initial speech, said that there are alternatives, and that is true. But we believe that there are even more alternatives. So I am again questioning what the Left Block has already asked: given that the State spends, in debt interest, as much as it transfers to the National Health Service, considering that the social state is clearly more important than the speculators who make fortunes on public debt, for when a restructuring, for when a renegotiation in order to redirect those who are our resources to the social state, indeed, make them available to the Portuguese and Portuguese? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u179	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u180	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is indeed a missed budget, the opportunity to speak of serious economic growth once and for all in Portugal and to stop having discussions on anemic growth, crises and about one tenth or less in the deficit. It is worth looking at the Budget for 2016 and hearing today the words of the one who preferred to remain silent: Mr. Prime Minister. Mr Prime Minister in the Budget for 2016 said — and I quote: "We assume as the main objective of this Budget to contribute to the revival of the economy. And he added—and I quote again: "Our priority is the revival of the economy. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, Prime Minister, you failed! You have failed your priority, you have failed your forecasts and unfortunately you have failed the explanation that you should have given to the Portuguese today to the fact that the economy, contrary to what you promised, has grown much less and not more. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This is the central question to which the 2017 Budget should answer. It's not possible, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, despite more demagogic promises they make and more auctions of pensions they make, there is a recovery of sustainable income, whether in the public sector or in the private sector, without serious economic growth. And that's what this budget is calling into question! [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] This budget is compromising the future in the name of a present which, we agree, is not so bright either. Because, Prime Minister, if the present were so bright, you would have come here to explain it, as it is too obvious! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, instead, we had a budgetary discussion in which the Minister of Finance, with his usual wisdom, did us thank him and almost the favor of giving us a lecture on what the Budget is and what the economy will be next year. It is quite extraordinary, Mr Minister, because it says, exactly with the same tone and the same enough that just over a year ago it told us that we were going to grow 2, 4 % and that we were going to live in a world of wonders, that after all, these 2, 4 % are no longer even 1, 8 %, is 1, 2 % growth and that basically, in crucial variables such as investment, until we are going to decrease. The Minister for this and the inflexion of strategy that this has to involve, he says nothing! It is almost as if it were to say to reality: "The reality has not yet understood how my theories are true and how the wise people of the PS know, better than reality, what must happen. But it is a matter of giving them time, that reality must come there. ... »
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u181	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u182	Therefore, with regard to exports, Mr.Minister basically complains to us: things in Angola are not going as they should, in Brazil they are not doing well either, here it is not as well as we were waiting for... As regards investment, in this Budget, the matter is far from being settled and is postponed again. And I didn't run away from recapitalization. But, Mr Minister of Finance, even here, I think that we are far from it, because the plan they put forward is far from being a concrete plan — I understand the problem and I think they were concrete solutions — and, above all, with regard to the tax treatment of own capital and the reinvestment of profits, it has many shortcomings and it will penalise the most indebted companies precisely. Even companies that are able to survive and preserve jobs will be harmed, and the plan will work on the contrary. Mr Minister, I would also like to quote, with all due consideration, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, now President of this House, in the debate of the 2015 Budget : « Bring us here... », then the former Government — «... an investment perspective of 2 %. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u183	Two percent!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u184	"This is an economic disaster and a disaster for the Portuguese growth model. Do not keep on seeking. ” I would like to know what the PS will now say to an investment of - 0, 7%. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, as far as business needs are concerned—because concrete measures are needed for companies—I will quote what has been one of the major supporters of this Budget, Mrs Mariana Mortagua, of the Left Block. She also said, in the discussion of the same budget for 2015 : 'What small businesses ask us when they come to Parliament...' — what they asked them to do, then — '...is to lower the VAT of the restoration,...' — the one who stayed in half — '...to lower the direct taxes,...' — those who, with their vote, have risen — «... who lower VAT on electricity...» — who, with their vote, retains — «... and who lower taxes on fuels» — those who, with their vote, have increased! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] That is what the companies want and, with your vote, Mrs Deputy, did the opposite. That is the great defect of this Budget; one thing has been promised, it has promised the reinstatement of incomes to make the economy grow, and the economy has come down! That's the big flaw!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u185	Down? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u186	Yes, come down, and it is the fact that they have put growth down, cool down, that justifies the silences that are being heard in this Chamber today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u187	For the last question of this round, you have the floor of Mr. Deputy of PCP Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister, the proposal for a State Budget that we are discussing today advances in consolidating a path initiated in 2016 for the enhancement and strengthening of social rights and pursues a path of reversal of successive cuts in the financing of public school and the National Health Service, as happened year after year until 2015. In fact, it is worth looking at the Budgets from 2001 to 2015 and what we see is a downward line, unlike the Budgets from 2016 and 2017 because what we see is an inversion and a trend of growing sense that, we consider, must be deepened and go further. Although still far from meeting the effective needs of public educational institutions and public health services, from 2016 there is a positive evolution of public resources allocated for this purpose, while the public network is seeking to ensure adequate response to the needs of users and populations, contrary to options for privatization of services and/or public financing to private services. There are options that continue to concern us and deserve our disagreement. Mr. Minister, for example in health, the proposal for a State Budget for 2017 provides for increased transfers of funds to public-private partnerships ( PPP ) in this area, funds that could and should be channeled to the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u190	This increase results from negotiations initiated by the previous Government, PSD / CDS, as part of the review of contracts with public-private partnerships. By completing the PPP contract of Cascais, there is an opportunity to reverse to the State and to ensure the public management of this hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u192	Mr Minister, we want to highlight the new steps taken towards the freeness of school textbooks, extending to the whole of 1. the cycle, in this proposal of State Budget. The progressive freeness of school textbooks is a measure of enormous political scope, but also pedagogical and opens a perspective of effective free education throughout compulsory education, as enshrined in our Constitution, in addition to ensuring equality in access and success at school, regardless of economic conditions. We want to go further, we want to improve and improve this positive measure. This expansion of the freeness of school textbooks results from an insistence on a proposal we presented in the State Budget for 2016. I'm glad we never gave up defending the freeness of school textbooks throughout compulsory schooling.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u194	We also want to highlight in this debate, but still with limitations and inadequacies, the strengthening of the money to support the arts. We recall that the CFP, in the discussion of the State Budget for 2016, presented a proposal in this regard. We note that in this budget proposal this has been envisaged. In addition to being a different option from those adopted in the past by previous governments, this increase in funding for the support of the arts should be seen as a first step that will have to be extended in the future, ensuring adequate conditions and encouraging artistic creation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u196	Mr Minister, there are, however, a number of specific problems for which the Government must take concrete action for its resolution. These are problems that have been substantially aggravated as a result of the policy options of the PSD and the CDS and which the PCP has denounced and for which it has submitted several proposals. Mr Minister, I am talking about the enormous shortage of operational assistants in schools, which makes it impossible for students to function and monitor them, or the lack of technicians to accompany students with special needs and psychologists in schools; I am talking about the enormous shortage of health professionals— doctors, nurses, technicians, operational assistants— which does not allow them to be accessible to health care in good quality and in good time; I am talking about the existence of numerous precarious links in public services, from employment-insertion contracts to right term contracts or part-time contracts, for the performance of permanent functions. We believe that the objective of combating precariousness must be clearly and decisively taken into account, making each permanent job an effective employment contract. We also believe that it is necessary to hire workers in need in public services, integrating them into careers and respecting their rights. These are the issues on which we would like Mr Minister to give us an answer on the Government's perspective to resolve these concrete problems that are identified and that effectively create numerous constraints on the functioning and effective guarantee of fundamental social functions and which are enshrined in our Constitution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u197	To respond to this round of requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u198	Mr President, Mr Morgano, in his speech, made a series of forecasts of cartomancia, which obviously only qualify him as a predictor of the future, and a set of economic analyses, which I would of course like to comment on why they bring us here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u199	Do not forget that I am a Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u200	Mr. Miguel Morgado, on the steps of the IRS, says that updating the steps based on the inflation rate will increase the taxes paid by taxpayers. [[PSD MP Miguel Morgado's protests.]] In 2012 the State Budget updated 0 %; in 2014 it updated 0 %; and in 2015 it updated 0 %. Mr, there is now an update of the IRS steps. On the other hand, he used the expression « fiscal neutrality ». The term 'tax neutrality' is absent from the State budget report. That, therefore, is either your sentence or Mr Hyde — in fact, it must even be your sentence. It is that the expression « fiscal neutrality », Mr President, is nowhere in the state budget report. What is explained is that the increase in the ISP (tax on petroleum products) in gasoline and the reduction of the ISP in gasoline, because there is an increase in gasoline and a decrease in gasoline, has a dimension, an environmental objective very significant and is made with a moratorium on the introduction of biofuels, in the calculation of the price rate. And that, Mr President, is what makes it, from the price point of view, neutral. There is not a single statement on « fiscal neutrality », contrary to what Mr wanted, wrong and false, to say before all the Members and before the country. In economic terms, you have a model in your head, you have something against domestic demand, certainly. She's almost sinful! Internal search becomes almost sinful! But in 2015 the growth of the Portuguese economy was made at the cost of domestic demand. The contribution of domestic demand to the growth of the Portuguese economy in 2015 was 2, 6 %. Now, with regard to external balance—and this too is often a concept glossed by the honourable Member when he talks about economics—, the contribution of net foreign demand to growth was negative in 2015. In 2015, the virtues of your model were no longer there, Mr. I said we had a model that failed. Mr President, the employment rate is rising by 2% more than what we expected, i.e., it is increasing by twice as much as what we predicted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u201	It's growing less!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u202	The development model of the Portuguese economy can only result from the growth of the employment rate and the increase in income. That's exactly what's happening. [[PSD protests.]] In September, the unemployment rate fell and the number of unemployed fell — 12, 6 % less than in September last year. And actually, September last year is a bad month to compare. You know why? Do you know how much the Portuguese economy has grown in the third quarter of 2015, i.e. in the last quarter of its government's responsibility? It grew 0, 1 % compared to the second quarter. It's almost a stagnation. This is how the Portuguese economy left the XIX government in September in the third quarter of 2015. That is to say, as far as models are concerned, we are being talked about, because that model to which you appeal has not reached the end of your term of office. We have an economic policy which is committed to the recovery of income and which is achieved only through the growth of employment and investment growth and the measures that are in the State budget are directed precisely towards these purposes. What I have just said is what Mrs Cecilia Meireles said about growth and exports. It is true, Mrs Deputy, that Portuguese exports in 2016 are faced with very serious crises in markets which are extremely important to Portuguese companies. It is true that Portuguese companies have been able to move part of their export activity to markets that now reveal greater growth and maturity, for example in the European Union. That is why Portuguese companies are gaining market share in 2016. Mrs Deputy, this is business behaviour, it is the adaptation of Portuguese companies to a very difficult situation that they face in some markets. The capitalisation measures contained in the Government Programme and the State Budget are extremely important for the investment and the recovery of that investment. It's for that purpose that they're there. What we have observed throughout 2016 is a recovery of investment levels, which will provide an investment growth next year and with it the sustainability of economic growth. One of the measures we have implemented this year was professional gas oil. Finally, a measure has been implemented which, next year, will also have an extension on professional gas oil. This is the support which, in tax terms, we give an extraordinarily important activity in the Portuguese economy, and also in its export activity, and which will certainly have a significant impact on this economic activity. Mr Moisés Ferreira raised challenging questions about debt, the management of that debt and the cost of debt to the State budget in Portugal. I have already mentioned the importance given by the Government to this issue and the obvious identification of the cost in terms of the interest payments we bear today in the State budget. But this debate, as I have already mentioned, must be held in the context of Europe. It is in this context that we raise this question. We believe that we cannot exempt ourselves from this debate. Internal contributions, as you are sure know, are very important — the government has participated in them, will continue to participate and will certainly not do these debates in its position in European terms. Mrs Paula Santos mentioned some difficulties that the Government has been facing over the year in adapting the difficulties that exist and that existed in large numbers in some public administration services. The policy followed by the government in this dimension was the recovery of income through the elimination of wage cuts more rapidly. Human resources management issues are obviously important. So, briefly, the working group that is analyzing the issues of precariousness will produce its results. Follow-up will be a decision period on the way in which it is possible to follow in reducing precarious issues in the State. As I said in the initial intervention, surely a year, even though with two Budgets, is not enough time to change, to solve all the difficulties that still lie with the Portuguese economy today, but the path is designed and we will obviously persist on that path, choosing the best solutions for the problems that are also put to the Public Administration in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u203	We passed on to the last round of requests for clarification to Mr. Minister. To request clarification, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u204	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Finance, this budget is a fraud and education is one of the most visible evidence of this fraud. You have as Prime Minister Dr. António Costa, who was part of a government that led the country to bankruptcy, and that is why you put the public school at stake. Despite all this, the government now by its head insists on the same mistake. More serious: prepare to do worse. Put your political survival above the students' interests, and that is unacceptable, censorable, unforgivable and will have our fight. Mr. Prime Minister has confidence in the Minister of Education. You understand! It is he who accepts and allows the Prime Minister to deliver the area of education into the hands of the trade unionist Mário Nogueira,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u205	What a salazarient speech! Against the unions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u206	... formerly the hyperbolizer of a broken glass in a school— [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u207	Salareant speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u208	...this also serves for PCP, I know! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u209	Salareant speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u210	... today, the sweet spokesperson that everything relativizes. In order for this Government to exist, it has delivered the destinations of education to its extreme-left partners — to the PCP, the Bloc and the Greens — by making a summary of the ministries of moderate former ministers of the Socialist Party and putting at risk the results that all the players in the Portuguese education system have achieved in the last 40 years, in which the last example achieved in the previous government was the decrease of 28, 3 % to 13, 3 % of the school dropout rate. Mr. Prime Minister is an optimist. He believes that, by repeating the same thing several times, in the way of mantra, desire is realized. He is the leader of a government that bases his political action on a badly translated self-help book. But the problem is this annoying thing called « reality». The reality of schools without money to pay for water and light, the reality of schools with an extreme shortage of employees, the reality of the Pedrouzos Grouping, which had to temporarily close its Autism Unit, the reality of the School Dr. Manuel Fernandes, Abrantes, who had to close its school library, the reality of the Pedro Nunes High School, which was shut down, the reality of students without physical education classes. These are examples of a reality that spreads throughout the country, but you are afraid to turn into a fiction where there are no problems and where the public school has been saved. Schools don't have any more money and they do, yes, lack a lot of employees. And, Mr Finance Minister, Budget is another piece of this fiction. The schools won't have any more money next year. Don't worry about it! Who would say? The reality of the Left Government is that schools will have less money. [[PS protests.]] The so announced increase of 3, 2 % is after consulting the maps you tried not to distribute, a reduction of 2, 7 %. The propaganda, Mr. Minister, like the lie, has a short leg. Less money, Minister of Education and Minister of Finance, less money for Portuguese schools. Mr. Prime Minister said he would strengthen investment in fundamental policies such as education. And what do you do? Send less money to schools for the next school year. There is: 'the word given the honest word'! And so is our education being managed: by a communist trade unionist,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u211	Salareant speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u212	... by a Prime Minister who does not honour the word he gives and by a minister who thinks he is a minister, because that is his truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u213	Salareant speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u214	Mr. Deputies, take it easy. I can't admit you calling me a salad boy! Take it easy, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u215	Salareant speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u216	Be serene, sir! Be serene, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u217	Salazart speech and anti-communist!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u218	Be serene, sir! [[PSD applause.]] He doesn't like to hear the truth! He doesn't like to hear the truth! [[PS and PCP protests.]] You are harming the public school and are part of the government. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u219	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u220	So the question remains, Mr Minister for Finance, and now Mr Prime Minister, who is next to you: is this the resurgence of socialist passion for education? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u221	Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u222	Mr President, Minister Mário Centeno, mentioned in his presentation the strengthening of public investment in the next budget, and what he misses so much. He mentioned, in particular, the construction of three hospitals, but he did not mention Madeira's new hospital and I remember that this investment was a commitment made by the Prime Minister when he was in the region, during his last official visit. [[Really?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u223	It is true that Madeira enjoys autonomy, that it has had many millions that have broken into useless works and that with these amounts it could have built several hospitals, but chose not to do so. However, above the incompetence of the regional power and its insecurity, there is a destitute population, punished with a double austerity, regional and national, and who lacks the solidarity of the Republic to have this important equipment in order to have adequate health treatments. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u224	Mr Miguel Santos, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr Minister of Finance, yesterday in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, Mr Minister spoke about the health deficit in 2015 and I tried to explain to him what had happened, particularly the reasons that led to that final result. I now understand that the explanations I gave yesterday are no longer sufficient because the one who was the deficit that was reported yesterday based on data from the consolidated account of the ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ), which was 371 million euros today, by his mouth and by the mouth of the Socialist Party Member who intervened,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u226	Intervey!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u227	...that I intervene, it is already at EUR 440 million. So I don't know if from today to tomorrow this deficit will not increase a few million more! Is that what you're talking about? But he agreed, in favour of the truth and that things should be properly settled, that the Minister should determine exactly what the deficit is. In fact, Mr Minister is aware, because I told him yesterday and I hope he did this exercise, that there was a marotic which was made here in December, that it was the anticipation of costs related to the medicine for hepatitis C and a difference in the revenue results from the agreement with APIFARMA, which is estimated at EUR 140 million — when they arrive at the accounts, we will see exactly what it was — that, instead of being registered in December 2015, you made the marotice of the passage to 2016 to have another folguinha. This is the question about the 2015 deficit, because you continue to insist on those values. On the other hand, Mr Minister, I have with me a note from UTAO, that independent body which, I believe, you respect and consider, that, at some point in time, refers to the proposed State budget law for 2017, the following : « The amount budgeted for 2017... » — in staff expenditure, that is what we are talking about — «... is less than that recorded in 2015. Do not keep on seeking. ” The Minister can explain this assessment that UTAO makes, taking into account that, in 2017, wage rests are all 100 % in 12 months, that 35 hours of weekly work are implemented, that there is a need for more people to hire, despite the goal of reducing public employees—I do not know how this is to get married, frankly! Mr Minister, I do not understand, and I would like you to explain to me how it is possible for staff to have a planned expenditure for 2017, with all these measures that are in need of the Budget, which is less than that which was executed in 2015. In fact, health is also the case. In conclusion, Mr Minister, when the Budget was presented, the Government, through the Minister of Health, spent the following days boasting itself in interviews on radios, on televisions, in newspapers saying that the health budget rose by 3, 7 %, plus EUR 353 million. However, when we started talking about the missing execution maps, I no longer heard this thesis of the increase in the health budget. And you see why. Because, if we are to check what they give is based on how executed for the year 2016, which is EUR 245 million deficit, negative value— and the prosecution is still on the stand, because these are the data that the Directorate-General of the Budget refers to for August... In addition, I know that the Ministry of Health has published an order that reduces the investment to zero, i.e., no one spends any money, hospitals are only paying wages, they cannot contract any kind of expenditure by the end of the year. But EUR 245 million of deficit was in August and you are assuming that they will come at the end of the year with the same deficit. Therefore, in line with such growth of EUR 353 million, with what is missing, which is already proven, and with the inflation rate that you expect, Minister, to do the math—I have already done so, but I am not surprised to announce it! — and tell me, then, what is the growth that your accounts actually bring to the budget of the Ministry of Health. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u228	Mr Pedro Mota Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Finance, with the approval of the State Budget for 2017, a pensioner with a minimum pension of €263 will have an increase of €1, 08, a pensioner with a social pension of €201 will have an increase of €1, 04, and a pensioner with a rural pension of €241 will have an increase of €1,07. This, Mr Minister, happens in the same year that a pensioner with a pension of €7500 will have an increase of €263 per month,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u230	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u231	... while a pensioner who receives 263 € per month has an increase that is little more than 1 €. Mr Minister, this budget has a huge mark of social insensitivity. It is about 1 million Portuguese people with a lot of age, with very complicated health problems and that in 2017, as already happened in 2016, will get worse, will lose purchasing power. A pensioner with a minimum pension has seen this year that his pension is increased by 0, 4 %, about 1 €. Only the inflation was 0, 7% and therefore became worse. In 2017, this pensioner will have an increase of 0, 7 % when inflation is 1, 5 %. That is, for the second consecutive year, he will lose purchasing power.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u232	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u233	More than that, Mr Minister of Finance, you are excluding from the extra increase of €10 from August, i.e. €4 throughout the year, pensioners with lower pensions from all pensions. What you are saying to about 1 million Portuguese—and your argument is extraordinary—is that, this year, they will not be increased, they will not benefit from this increase because in the past they have already received. As if this were a privilege for people with pensions of 263 €, of 240 € or of 200 € per month! Worse than insensitivity, Mr Minister, is a revenge against these Portuguese, about 1 million, who are often the poorest of the poor in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u234	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u235	I know, Mr Minister, that the Socialist Party has a prejudice to minimum pensions, because, for example, in 2011 when it frozen pensions, for its option, even before the troika, it chose to freeze all pensions, including minimum social and rural pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u236	And those who cut the RSI?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u237	I know, because I remember, that when you signed the Memorandum of Understanding, in that Memorandum there was not only the freezing of pensions but also a cut of EUR 445 million from pensions. The CDS bench has already asked you twice and even the Communist Party bench has done so, and you have so far not answered: will you correct this gross injustice? Are you going to stop this revenge against 1 million Portuguese people, who are often the poorest, the weakest and the most excluded in Portuguese society? [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u238	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr Sérgio Azevedo, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u239	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Finance, there are two illusions which we can take from this debate so far. The first, Mr Minister for Finance, is that you have learned the lesson well from Mr Prime Minister, because he does not answer a single question which my bench put to you. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u240	The second is your well-teached narrative, say, to continue to throw on a government that no longer governs the responsibilities of your failures, thinking that this narrative has no maturity of validity, and people really believe that, on the verge of voting the second budget of the «new time», it is no longer time for you to take your responsibilities fully!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u242	Yesterday, the Minister said in Parliament that Lusa and RTP were not exempt from the budgetary effort required, ensuring that the public service was guaranteed. Even today, we have heard that the President of the Board of Directors of the Lusa Agency has assurances that the company can, I repeat, have guarantees that it can — have good news about compensation for 2017. Be there, Minister, what this means! Mr. Minister says you believe in the future. Well, let's tell the Lusa Agency workers to believe in the future, when we're in November, there's no signed concession contract, they live from twelve and you insist they don't put the money there! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u243	The Minister also said that it would lead the government to face up to and defend their choices. Well, if so, with the amendment to the law governing public television financing and which you propose in the State budget, this changes which determines that audiovisual compensation is being handed over by companies to the tax administration and not directly to the RTP — as, moreover, has been happening since 2013 — your Government is clearly defending and taking on a gross violation of the independence of the public television service and a serious backwardness, in a governmental and parliamentary harmony that lasts for 13 years. Now, there is no plausible justification for this matter—and do not come with the Court of Auditors' discussion, because that is not what the Court said — except for Mr Minister, an unbridled need of your government to collect revenue! Therefore, Mr Minister, explain to my bench and, if you do the favor, to the men and women of the struggle, who support your government but who, on this matter, are so quiet, the rudeness of this measure. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u244	You now have the floor to make the last request for clarification of this last round, Mr Simão Ribeiro, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister for Finance, at the opening of this debate he said, and quite well, in our view, that it is up to the political class to make choices. It is particularly up to the Government to make choices and then, as the good rules in democracy command, to give account to this House and Portuguese society. Mr Minister, it is precisely about your choices, your options and the options of this government that I would like to question. In fact, some questions are in the process of strengthening because, as has already been said, the Minister has asked whether or not to respond to much of what has been said and, in another hand, to flee from what is obvious evidence in this State budget. Mr. Minister, I begin by telling you the obvious and that the whole country knows. The whole country knows that public debt has increased again to minimums and to record values as never seen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u246	Increase to minimum! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u247	... that 7 consecutive months of public debt has increased, having in the space of one year increased anything like about EUR 12 billion. I ask you: is this the inheritance you want to leave to the new generations of Portugal? Second question: its governance scenario, the governance scenario of the Socialist Party, as, moreover, has already been said here, pointed out that in 2016 there was a robust growth of the economy in the house of 2, 4 %. Today, as has been public recently, it was known that growth for this year, 2016, will be quite close to nothing, i.e., it will be located in the house of just over 1%, when precisely in 2015 the growth was higher, of 1, 6 %. It is appropriate to say, Mr Finance Minister, that I have more debt and Portugal, unfortunately, grows less. I would ask you to justify this to this House and, above all, to justify it to the new generations of the country. Mr. Minister of Finance, despite denying, denying, denying, renegade and attempting to say otherwise to expect an inverted nature to become an absolute truth, the tax burden does not diminish. See: the overtax does not disappear, the fuels increase, the IMI (municipal property tax) increases, the vehicle tax ( ISV ) increases,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u248	The tax burden is decreasing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u249	... the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) does not lower, the IRC (tax on income of the public) does not lower and, even though, the country, when confronted with something that was unthinkable, up to an IMI-based tax on the sun and on the views you see created by Mr. Minister! Mr Minister, I hope you will not live long enough to, one day, when you are in the scrap with some lack of revenue to comply with certain agreements, see Mr Minister also create a tax or a tax on the air we all breathe! I hope it will not come the day that this happens! Therefore, Mr Minister, it justifies to Parliament the artificial returns of income that this budget is leading, in which, on the one hand, it expects and says it returns income, but on the other hand, it transforms them into permanent austerity, through indirect taxes. Minister, what do you have to say, or offer, to the young Portuguese? Is it the de-investment in education that has already been mentioned here? Is it the cut in incentives for young recruitment? Or are the constant conflicts that the government is living in the area of youth? Is this what you will leave to future generations: more debt, more taxes? Where are your constant expressions of love to the public school now? Mr Minister, this budget is bad and this government is unable to attract investment. It's a government that can only tax and tax. Taxing and taxing even more housing, taxing and taxing more work, taxing and taxing more consumption, taxing and taxing even more investment. It is appropriate to say that your recipe is always the same :tax, Minister, tax. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u250	To respond to this set of requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by replying to Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, saying that I was genuinely concerned. And I say concerned, because I didn't know what you did, what you thought and what you said when the expenditure on education in the 2013 budget fell 2, 3 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u252	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u253	... when in the 2014 Budget it fell 0, 1 % and when in the 2015 Budget it fell 5, 1 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u254	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u255	Mr, I confess that I was concerned because, now, it reveals concern because the expenditure of education only grows 3, 3 % in 2016, and 3, 1 % in 2017! Mr. Member, join us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u256	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u257	...because now the expenditure of education grows! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Clearly, I am not going to comment on the trade union trends and assessments that you have made. They don't look good on you, but I'm not going to comment. But, Mr President, is this not an expression that tells you something? It is that in budgetary implementation there is something called 'provisional appropriations', it is used in all budgets and it is there to strengthen when they need it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u258	And bully too!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u259	That is exactly what happens in many circumstances. Do you know what it's for? To avoid amending budgets. Do you know how many you've done your government? He did eight, i.e., there was no provisional allocation worth it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] They are therefore negative values that become positive and for which you are now concerned. Your concern is noted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u260	Thank you very much! My government has not led the country to bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u261	Mr Paulino Ascenção spoke to us about the importance of public investment, which is obviously a central element of the government. So much so that next year there is a very substantial growth forecast, corrected by one-off effects, close to 10 %. In the budget table there is 22 % and, if we correct some special effects, it grows about 10 %. It is a very significant growth in public investment and, in these concerns, certainly fits the statements that Mr. Prime Minister made in Madeira on the analysis of what is the need for funding from Madeira hospital. This matter is being examined in the Government and will be taken into account. Mr. Miguel Santos did not take good note that in the initial 2015 budget, the projected health deficit was EUR 30 million and that when we arrived at the end of the year and was cleared by ACSS the deficit was EUR 371 million. It was only 340 million euros! The final clearance of the deficit is made by the National Institute of Statistics in September and, in fact, the health deficit was EUR 470 million. This is the health deficit, established by the National Institute of Statistics. Mr Deputy, for statistical clearances, we have the National Institute of Statistics. That is how it must be done, and that is the deficit that has been achieved. in this deficit there are wage increases, careers and competitions that the government implemented in 2015 in health. The question I am referring to will have special treatment at the budgetary level. In any case, Mr Deputy, the difference between the initial balance and the final health deficit in 2015 can only have one word, which is « uncontrolled » in what was the health execution in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u262	I'm glad you said that! Let's talk about it in a few months!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u263	The marotices you talked about obviously do not have that interpretation. Mr. Miguel Santos, there are also in health, and they were used in the State Budget for 2016, centralized appropriations, for example for wage replacement, and Mr. In other words, the health budget in the frameworks of the budget programme was strengthened with centralized appropriations in the Ministry of Finance for salary reversals. Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, there are no budget documents for 2016 in the budget of 600 million in pensions, as mentioned in the 2015 Stability Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are also no budget documents on the freezing of more than 2 million pensions that have not been updated since 2010; these pensions, many of them, close to 300 €, with 30 year-old contribution careers. These pensions, Mr. Member, have not been updated and this freezing does not appear in the 2016 or 2017 budget documents either. This is the policy that has been defined by the Government: to increase, in fact, extraordinaryly, pensions that have not been increased, pensions with long-term careers and which have been completely forgotten by the Government of which you have been Minister. Anyway, all these pensions below an IAS and half in 2016 were increased and also in 2017 pensions up to two IAS will be increased according to the inflation rate, which is exactly the rule that is in the legislation. Mr Sérgio Azevedo called today a difficult card. It is only a « card» on which you have to talk about Lusa, which has been attacked to the limits of survival by its government, that is very difficult! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, what I can tell you, to end with a reference, is the following: can anyone be who is not? No, sir, you can't. And you must be the one who's not! Mr President, it is clear that Lusa's workers can be rested, something that has not happened for four years. This is the truth! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the contribution to the audiovisual sector, Mr President, we are following a recommendation from the Court of Auditors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u264	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u265	...that it was something that you too did very little, and Mr.Sérgio Azevedo knows perfectly that you did very little, during the last four years. But you know that now the recommendations of the Court of Auditors are followed...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u266	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u267	...and, therefore, what is being done is just to respond to this recommendation, there is in no way to question the money that the contract with RTP imposes, nor is there, in this matter, of course, no attempt to manipulate. Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro asked me a question about the future and the generation of the future. It is clear that these are very, very big concerns of the government, and that is why we have welcomed developments in the labour market, where the unemployment rate of young people for the first time since 2011 fell below 30 %. It is a very high rate, but there is a very significant decrease in the unemployment rate. It is also very significant that the reduction of the active population has stopped. You know why? Because many of your friends, your colleagues, had to emigrate, and 250 000 of your colleagues left. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, Mr President, much of my initial speech has been devoted precisely to Portugal's future and future. This also has a dimension in combating precariousness, because that is how we can look forward to the future, a future of stability in the labour market. But it is also very important to strengthen our family allowance in the first three years, because birth and fertility increase are the only condition we have for, in future, Portugal to be able to have a potential growth that makes this a country that, as I said in my initial intervention, manages incomes, so that all, without divisions, without dividing workers and pensioners,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u268	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u269	... without dividing the private sector of the public sector, without dividing the interior of the coast,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u270	It's something new about the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u271	... we can live and grow in it, in this country of which we all obviously like and whom we call Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u272	With this intervention Mr. Minister for Finance is finished the part relating to requests for clarification. We are now moving to the stage of intervention, the first of which is that of Mr Luís Montenegro. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u273	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: One year later, the country is worse and people's daily lives are no better.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u274	Look what a good sentence!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u275	Better, you guys haven't noticed yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u276	The economy grows less than it has grown in 2015 ; exports grow less than they have grown in 2015 ; consumption, the touchstone of the economic model of this left government, grows less than in 2015 ; investment decreases; public investment, that, is falling sharply in view of what was planned ; debt grows rather than diminishing, and even deficit, this new passion of the left, without recurrent effects, falls less than it has fallen in any of the previous five years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u277	How? Oh, my God! What's it like?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u278	The country's worse! It is less attractive, it flees investment and investors, it is less credible, almost no one believes in the purposes and results of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u279	Don't tell me the devil's coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u280	Just look at Portugal's circumstances pay three times more interest on the market today than it pays our neighbor Spain to finance itself, and the Spaniards were almost a year without government. And he's less reliable because...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u281	You trusted everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u282	... everyone realizes, Mr. Minister of Finance and Mr. Prime Minister, that there is no fiscal stability, there is instability. Until one year ago, Portugal was an example of reformism in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u283	Say that in German!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u284	Today, Portugal is a stage of revenge and reversal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the year 2016 was indeed a lost year. [[PSD applause.]] This budget, instead of bringing hope, repeats the mistakes and prolongs the stagnation of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u285	There are limits, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u286	The Left Government defenders will say: « But we reject people's income more quickly». « The replacement, which began in 2014 and 2015, with us, the Government of the Left, was faster, people had the most available income» — the supporters of the Government of the Left say. And we asked: Is that exactly what it is? If that were the case, would there not have been a shock in domestic demand, as did the defenders of the left-wing government and this economic model? Oh, my God! At the end of each day, are people really better than they were and the perspective they had at the end of 2015? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u287	Poor people, they're fine!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u288	It is true that the timetable for the replacement of income lost by heights of the emergency situation has been accelerated. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u289	There's no doubt about it! This government and its supporters have accelerated the schedule of reinstatement of income...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u290	They've speeded up, no. I was repossessing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u291	...that was already in progress. But we have to ask the country: this acceleration was and is the change of what? What is the price that the left pays the Portuguese for their generosity? In 2015 there was a partial salary replacement,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u292	The Constitutional Court!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u293	... the minimum pensions were updated and no pension had cut,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u294	Because they didn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u295	... except those which made a value of more than € 4611. At the same time, in 2015, the IRS dropped for families, the authorities were able to lower the IMI and lower the IRC for companies. By chance, the IRC rate has fallen but, curiously, it has risen the tax revenue at the head of IRC. In other words, the replacement of income was more gradual but was a friend of family taxation,... [[PCP protests.]] ... she was a friend of the investment, she was a friend of the economy and she was a friend of the social state and reformism in the social state. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u296	That's why the Portuguese slapped you in the back!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u297	And now, I repeat, what is the price of the generosity of the Government of the Left? The price, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a high price and it's an unfair price. Austerity, which was transient and was being removed, is now hidden and to remain permanently. The aggravated IRS...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u298	Aggravated? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u299	Aggravated with the upgrade of the steps, Mr! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u300	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u301	As was to say, the IRS aggravated, the new property tax, the worsening of the IMI, the increase in local housing tax, either from the perspective of the IRS, or from the perspective of the IRC, the increase in tax on soft drinks, the increase in fuel tax, particularly on diesel, which is the one that affects more the lives of people and businesses, the increase in vehicle tax, the increase in alcohol tax, the increase in tobacco tax, the increase in car seal tax...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u302	And the cartridges!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u303	It is true, Mrs. Mariana Mortagua, until the increase in the tax on bullets, perhaps here to signal that, when it comes to going to the Portuguese pocket, the best thing is to shoot everywhere. That's how the left-wing government does. [[PSD applause.]] E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to this price being high and unfair, still remain, and remain, tricks and skills. I'm not even going to develop the question of withholding information, which was tested to see if anyone noticed. Only on repeated request—and it was not the first, it was the second — in view of the shame that it was not to do what all governments did before this, is that the Government was able to send the information to the Assembly of the Republic. But look at the story of the supertax. One year ago, word given and honored in law: « The overtax ends on December 31, 2016. » I repeat, it was a word given and honored in the letter of law. There to August / September, the word was bullied and the overtax, after all, was not finished on December 31, 2016, was to end during 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u304	Great landslide!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u305	The State Budget for 2017 is the final word in this matter: the overtax will end — I say, let's see, given the history of 2016 ; let's see, but it's the letter of the Budget – on December 31, 2017. The supporters of the Left Government and their owners will say: « But we will lower the retentions and, when we close the accounts, with the declarations delivered in 2018, maybe no one will ever remember that the overtax was in force on 365 days of 2017. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u306	Do you have any simulators for that?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u307	You're doing the math, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, the country is worse and people's daily lives are no better. People's daily lives are no better because the left-wing model has failed. This model is bad, it is inexhaustible and needs more money in order to control the deficit. The reasoning is relatively simple: if the economy does not grow what was expected, if the exports do not grow what was expected, if the investment does not grow what was planned, if the consumption does not grow what was planned, if all these variables fail, how can the accounts be counted? Oh, my God! With cuts, with pure austerity!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u308	When did you guys hit one? Tell me when they hit one!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u309	I repeat, with cuts and pure austerity! When a school or health unit closes because of a lack of staff, what is this but cutting the profit in public spending? What is this but pure austerity? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]] Not even in times of emergency, in the worst times of sacrifice, did they close schools and health units because there were no staff! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] That's true, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, that's true! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u310	The gentlemen. Do you mind creating conditions for Mr Luís Montenegro to continue? Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u311	When you go to the budget for the construction and maintenance of roads and you withdraw hundreds of thousands or millions of euros,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u312	Millions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u313	... which meant necessary and claimed works, in order to correct the accounts that have failed before, what is this but pure austerity? Oh, my God! When the subway has — Minister's word — I repeat, 'un chance', that I do not have money for paper, for maintenance of equipment, when people wait hours in line to pick up tickets or enter a carriage, what is this but pure austerity? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] When suppliers, the economy and economic agents in general have again in the State a person who does not meet his commitments, a bad payer, when this delay in payments, he push forward the payment of incurred and incurred expenses, affects the lives of companies and is a risk to maintaining jobs, what is this but pure austerity? When professional orders, all in the health area, demand an emergency plan to ensure health care, what is the result of blind cuts in the National Health Service? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u314	You're talking about cuts of wages and pensions?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u315	What is this but the result of cuts that call into question the provision of services and the safeguarding of the National Health Service? So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you can scream, you can express your discomfort, it is normal and quiet in democracy, but I ask you: who dares, with this frame, to say that people's daily life is better today than it was at the end of 2015? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u316	People!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u317	Just walk on the street!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u318	And, as the Brazilians say, 'chad' — I repeat, 'chad' — are the authors of the social state? When we reformed the National Health Service, when we made it more sustainable, when there was a drug policy that was translated into cheaper drugs for the populations, when we achieved better levels of efficiency in the National Health Service, here d’ el-rei because we were destroying the National Health Service. And now, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, when is there no money for the provision of the services to which the people are entitled? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] When we reformed education, when we carried rigor and quality... [[Rigor?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u319	... I repeat, when we brought rigor and quality to public school, when we adapted the means to reality, said the arautos of the social state: "They are killing the public school! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” So now that schools don't open for lack of staff, what are you doing in public school? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] That is how you want to overcome social inequalities, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Is that so? I don't think that results. So I ask you: where is your voice? It is not shouting against what I am saying, it is shouting against what are the consequences of government policies. Where's your voice? And more than your voice, where are your decisions? And in transport, when the transport sector was restructured in Portugal... [[PS and PCP protests.]] ...a sector that had accumulated EUR 17 billion in debt... [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u320	You've gone from 17 to 20 billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u321	Would you like me to say a little bit slower? I say: in almost always socialist 10 years of governance, the public transport system accumulated EUR 17 billion in debt and after the restructuring that was made in 2014 and in 2015 had positive operational results, something that had not happened before. And you said that we were putting an end to the public transport service. [[PCP protests.]] So, what now, that there is no money for tickets to be issued, for people to enter the carriages, what are you doing? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we were the neoliberals. You must be a 'neocolepticist', perhaps, but I think I understand your philosophy. I think you guys are. Members look at the difficulty of people and think — it is the new maxim of the left-wing government — « the people who endure ». It is even possible to conclude, with the collapse of the public services, that Deputy Catarina Martins is whispering to the side, talks about the rich to divert attention and tells the Block of Left « hold. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Where's Mrs. Deputy?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u322	Mr Jerome de Sousa,... [[He's not there either!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u323	... realises that you do not see and tells the CGTP « we have to endure. Do not keep on seeking. ” And António Costa, Prime Minister, tells the Socialist Party and the other partners «to tell the Portuguese that they endure; only in this way can we also endure in the government. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u324	You've won the PSD congress! [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u325	And if any voice of opposition, or even without opposition, ask, "Is the country holding? ", Dr. António Costa may be laughing and will not have the courage to tell Mrs Catarina and Mr. Jerónimo, but at that time he will think below: "Hold, hold on. That's how I'm holding up! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] But, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that they are not the only ones, they are not the only ones to blow into the air. at a time when these public services are threatened, it is also appropriate to ask: where are the agitators of the past? And I mean only those more media, those two or three that...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u326	Mário Nogueira and Armenio Carlos?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u327	Are you talking about Schäuble? Or Goldman Sachs?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u328	... represent some unpoliticized unions, and these, even though they are trade unionists, are on strike. I repeat, these unionists are on strike! [[Rice and applause from the PSD and CDS-PP.]] They speak for silence, they shut up because they consent. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Budget, we have already said in this House today, it is electoralist, it is unfair, it has more austerity and prolongs the stagnation and agony of the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u329	But is that jealous?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u330	Look at this document and ask yourself: where are we going? Look at this document and ask yourself: how will the country create more wealth? Look at this Budget and ask yourself: how will the country defeat the social inequalities that it still has, and very remarkable? You look at this Budget and ask yourself: how will the State guarantee the social state? How are we going to fix the young people and how are we going to give them a chance? How are we going to attract investment? What reforms will we do to make the country more competitive, to make the Public Administration more efficient, to be more competitive in Europe and the world? What hope will we give people to help us and mobilize to develop our society? These are the questions that are put to this Budget, but this Budget, unfortunately, does not answer any of this. This Budget is bad for Portugal. It is good for those who care and just want to endure, but it is bad for those who want to grow and raise more opportunities for our populations. [[PSD applause, stand up, and CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u331	Mrs. Members, during the speech of Mr Luís Montenegro, the Bureau was asked several times about the times, so that clarification should be made. The discounts that are being made are justified because the Government, PSD and PS are entitled to anticipate 30 % of the time scheduled for tomorrow's session, which is equal to the total time of today's session. This means that, in this case, the Social Democratic Party can anticipate about 16 minutes of the time it is given for tomorrow's session. Having spent almost 11 minutes, and having the Bureau registered three entries for requests for clarification to Mr Luís Montenegro, I assume that the only way to stay within that limit is to answer together the questions put to it. Is that so, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u332	It's better, it's better!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u333	It's worse for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u334	Yes, I will answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u335	To request clarification, Mr. João Galamba has the floor. [[Oh!]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u336	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and other members of the Government and Mr Luís Montenegro for the intervention you have just made. I do not think that you have made any real statement, but having nothing to say that it is remotely related to the budget that we are discussing here — I understand and I have to say that you have some way to do this — you have decided to hold a stand-up session. It was not wrong, it was a playful thing, but it is not supposed to be in a budget debate that we spend about 10 minutes on jokes, jokes and dikes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is supposed to debate the State budget, Mr. [[PSD protests.]] You have been a Member for a long time and a parliamentary leader, so I thought you knew that, but you can't look at your intervention and not see it as a playful moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u337	It's a chalice!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u338	The honourable Member began, with great regret, by leaving a sentence he said a little while ago, and now he did not say that the country was worse but that people were not aware of it yet. I'm sorry I left that version. I do not want to go into the area of classical Marxism, but the PCP and the Left Block will certainly be able to explain to Mr Luís Montenegro what the false conscience is. We know that the PSD had already abandoned social-democracy, otherwise you wouldn't say what they say about unions...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u339	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u340	...but we didn't know that he had entered the pack marxism. So if you want to move from social democracy to another system, the PCP and the Block can teach you a little better what is false consciousness. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u341	Professors of Marxism is no bother to us!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u342	Mr. Deputy also came here to say...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u343	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you want to do the right thing to create conditions for Mr. João Galamba to speak calmly.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u344	Mr President, you have no problems, because I have every opportunity to intervene. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr Luís Montenegro came here to manage with huge taxes. They were taxed everywhere! However, what you cannot say is that despite these enormous taxes you see everywhere, the tax burden increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u345	Oh, it's up, it's up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u346	You know what, sir? You know what's really scary? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is that if you think all these taxes are horrible, then you would like me to explain to the Portuguese why it is that in the stability programme you presented in Brussels in 2015, which is based on all the budgetary options, you talked about the goals that you guaranteed you would meet. Mr. Luís Montenegro, abandon the fact of humorist, given the fact of his party's representative and try to explain to the Portuguese whether what he said in the rostrum is true. If so, then how did you promise Brussels this year to have an additional EUR 700 million of tax burden on indirect taxes? Oh, my God! Repeat, indirect taxes! [[PSD protests.]] The honourable Member can say: "That was what we were talking about, the numbers aren't meant to take it seriously. » But the honourable Member and his party have entered a higher tax burden for 2016 into the stability programme which they sent to Brussels and which underpins the commitments that your government, the previous one, has assumed...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u347	It's not tax burden, it's tax revenue!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u348	No, no! It is a burden, Mr. Member, because it is tax revenue as a percentage of GDP, so it is the same tax burden. Mr President, these taxes all, which still do not increase the tax burden, are much less than those which you have promised and which have entered in the stability programme but which have never disclosed to the Portuguese. You could now take advantage of the opportunity to tell the Portuguese what taxes would increase — and much more than this government! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was a favour that would do us, in the name of such transparency that you talked about so much. Then, and now we realize that the discharge is not just the CDS — stop! — the PSD also wants to present itself as a defender of pensioners and public services. Mr. Member, you could have done something more gradual, because that's not the only way I don't believe it, no one believes it, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I think you don't believe what you're saying! You had more taxes and now you're protesting the taxes you're lowering. All right! Let us now look at such pensions. His party cut pensions every year and only cut no more because these left-wing parties here have prevented him from doing so by resorting to the Constitutional Court. You are talking about social sensitivity and pension increases here. I would like any member of the PSD or CDS boards who talks so much about pensions of €275, or up to €303, to explain to a person who worked for 30 years why not only that pension was frozen for four years as it would be four more years. I thought the prime value to the Portuguese right was work, but I didn't...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u349	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u350	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u351	And it's not just those benefits! There are more than 1, 5 million pensioners with pensions below 625 € and 250 000 pensions below 275 €. Therefore, it is not even true that you have increased the lowest value pensions, but what is certainly not true and that no one here, the PSD or the CDS, will be able to explain why, when you make a propagandistic number with a microset of low pensions...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u352	It's a million!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u353	It's not a million, no! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] If Mr Pedro Mota Soares, who was Minister of Social Security, does not know the difference between pensioners and pensions, it is a problem of him and reveals much what kind of minister he was. If you don't know that, that tells us a lot about the minister who was, or rather, about what wasn't. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, what we are doing in this Budget is to defuse the pensions that you have kept and kept frozen, is to invest in the most effective social benefits in combating poverty, such as social income for inclusion and solidarity for the elderly, which you have not only cut as they would keep cut by 2019. We have increased these benefits already in the previous budget and strengthened this increase in this. Then, sirs. Members, we do something that perhaps the Portuguese right, which wants to privatize social security, does not understand and that is the basic criterion of justice of the contribution system, that is, we value the contribution career of pensioners. Whoever worked and discounted an entire life has, yes, a right to his pension! And who has worked more and discounted more, yes, has the right to his pension, which must be higher than the one he discounted less. [[Congratulations from the PS, the PCP and the BE Members.]] You know why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Because the public pension system is a contribution system and those who work and contribute are entitled to their pension. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Who did not discount, because he did not work or for any other reason, who does not have a statutory pension that allows him to live with dignity, has a benefit created by a Government of the Socialist Party, called a solidarity complement for the elderly, which was the one that most reduced the poverty of the elderly. This is because not one hundred of the increases in pensions that you have made have decreased the rate of poverty among the elderly, but the Socialist Party, with this solidarity supplement, has had the greatest poverty in the elderly, which has increased for the first time during your government. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Now this supplement increased in 2016 and will increase again in 2017. Therefore, you, who say we give a few to take away many, explain this to more than 1, 5 million pensioners who would have their pensions frozen for eight years; explain this to more than 2 million pensioners who will see their pension increased according to inflation and who would not see your government;... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] ... explain this to the more than 170 000 elderly people who receive the solidarity supplement for the elderly, explain why you cut them up to 10 € per month and this government has increased them. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] Tell this to all public officials whose salaries would remain cut by 2019 and tell everyone who pays the surcharge and that they would see it, according to the new logic of the PSD and CDS, remain until 2020, even though your stability program is there by 2019. It is said that our overtax ends in 2018, I am very sorry, but you also have to recognize that what they wrote in the stability program is false because then your overtax would only end in 2020. Also explain this to more than 100,000 children who will receive family allowance and who would not receive with the PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u354	Do you want to go back to 2010, Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u355	Tell that to all children that they will have free manuals along 1. the cycle. Tell all these people why you wouldn't do anything, they didn't do anything, and they still don't.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u356	Who gave us an election victory?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u357	Mr President, this is a budget that does what PSD and CDS would never be able to do, which is to meet the budgetary goals, restore dignity in the world of work, in the world of pensions. So, Mr President, when you ask « Who would say today that your life is better? I am replying, Mr: the overwhelming majority of Portuguese who systematically approve this government and reject that of their party. It is these concrete Portuguese who confuse you and we now realize why they wanted to expel so many from the country:... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... is that the fewer Portuguese there were in Portugal, the less likely you would have to be defeated in elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u358	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u359	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Luís Montenegro, I would like to remind you that in the time of your Government, you said that the Portuguese were worse but that the country was better. Now he wants to convince us that, despite the Portuguese being better, the country is worse. This idea in which you have specialized in opposing the Portuguese and the country does not take and does not correspond to the reality, Mr President. This is because what you considered unlikely to happen, i.e. the approval of these two consecutive budgets that seek to recover income from Portuguese families, is clearly a problem for the right and you have demonstrated it well in your speech. They were years of labour income transfer policies to the capital side; they were years of orthodoxy that justified these policies as inevitable; they were years of lead, of the false idea that there is no alternative to austerity. After all, there was an alternative; after all, there was an alternative as demonstrated, as it is being demonstrated. And the evidence of this demonstration puts in crisis the entire architecture of the policies on the right that the previous majority PSD / CDS was representative in Portugal, troika, troicism, more troic than the troic itself. This strategy led to the impoverishment of the country and most people. That strategy is indeed in ruins. This State budget, despite all its difficulties and shortcomings, puts another stone on this time and allows to give hope to Portuguese and Portuguese. It must be said that those who have now mentioned that this strategy for the recovery of income is a failed strategy demonstrate, indeed, a huge arrogance, a huge lack of adherence to reality, a shocking disregard for the lives of people and families. It is that the budgets of the right-wing government have affected people, affected individuals and specific families. There must be criteria for the analysis of budgets and the great criterion, the criterion that is essential to us, that is, in fact, that of people's lives, is that of the living conditions of families. And it must be said that, with the budgets on the right, they have lost access to the solidarity complement for the elderly, due to the change made by you of the criteria for access to this solidarity supplement for the elderly, 75 000 elderly, who needed this solidarity supplement in order not to fall below the poverty threshold. Do you know what the outcome was? It was the rise in poverty precisely from the universe of our oldest. The State budget that we are now discussing integrates thousands of elderly people into this essential measure of combating poverty. This is the criterion that needs to be taken into account. From 166 000 to 182 000 elderly beneficiaries of the ISC will be one of the measures for the success of this income recovery policy to combat the exclusion of the elderly. These are our criteria. After all, Mr President, what are the criteria on the right? What criteria does the right have to measure whether or not these income recovery policies are successful? If the criteria were those of the structural budget balance, as you said during the time of your majority, the primary balance or the budget deficit... but these criteria no longer serve as a saving table for your argument. In fact, the failed strategy is the right strategy and no sign of change is seen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u360	The last entry, for a request for clarification to Mr Luís Montenegro, is from Mr Antonio Filipe of the CFP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u361	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, your intervention has given the image of nervousness, exasperation and even the anger with which the PSD views this debate and this proposal for a State Budget that we are discussing. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, calm down! But the reasons for the nervousness and anger of the PSD are not related to what you said about the State budget and what it contains, because what you said, essentially, is not even true. The real reasons for your exaggeration with regard to this proposal are precisely what you have always wanted to avoid, which is the replacement of the rights and income of Portuguese wages and pensions. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] What you have said here has been decreed for months. You had already decreed that unemployment would increase and it would not increase, increase taxes and increase all misfortunes. But you have said this for a long time, in fact, according to the theory that Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has been trying for several months to convince the country that the Devil is coming there! Well, as the Devil does not come, Mr Luís Montenegro comes here to make an intervention saying: "The Devil is hidden but is always behind the door! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Anyone who heard his intervention and was not in Portugal, did not know the reality of the country, would be led to think that after four years of prosperity, between 2011 and 2015, they fell on the country, during the last year, the seven plagues of Egypt and that it all got worse, which fell on the country a hecatomb! [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u362	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u363	Let us see what the PSD has to propose in this debate on the State budget. He said that the PSD proposed a gradual replacement of income. The only income that the PSD has responded to was what the Constitutional Court has forced against and against the PSD's will! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u364	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u365	The PSD criticizes all the repositories that are made. You are going to give me an example of a replacement that has been made and that the PSD has not criticised! The honourable Member has come here to talk about the overtax of the IRS — what an interesting example! Does the honourable Member still have that financial simulator that you put in so that the Portuguese would know how much they would see returned in 2015? It is that on 24 July 2015 Mr. Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho said that on that same afternoon there would be a first expectation about the return of the overtax of the IRS. One month later, in August, Prime Minister Passos Coelho assured that there was no reason for pessimism in relation to the forecast of tax revenues, ensuring that « the State will return to taxpayers all VAT and IRS received above the forecast ». The elections were passed and the simulator was zero and no one had a replacement at all. [[PCP and PS applause.]] Mr Luís Montenegro, one thing is very clear: the CFP has always defended, continues to defend and will defend, in this budgetary debate, the end of the overtax. But I'd like to know what the PSD is defending. What does the PSD, which anticipated the overtax by 2020, have to offer to the Portuguese for 2017? That's what we'd like to know. [[Well, no more!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u366	The honourable Member said that this was a pure austerity budget. We are very eager to know what measures the PSD proposes to combat austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u367	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u368	If the PSD thinks it is necessary to turn the page of austerity, very well, we are waiting for these proposals, because turning the page of austerity is exactly what we want. If the PSD also wants, very well, they are very welcome to turn this page. [[PCP and PS applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Pedro Passos Coelho.]] But we wanted to know, in fact, what the PSD's proposals are because, in assessing what the honourable Member said here, the PSD has great flags of struggle to mobilize Portuguese for its causes. What about a demonstration of the replacement of 40 hours of public service work? Oh, my God! [[PS laughter.]] How about a demonstration for the maintenance of the overtax, like the PSD imposed? Oh, my God! How about a demonstration that there will be cuts in wages and pensions, ending with this idea of restoring wages and pensions? Oh, my God! [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what about a demonstration against holidays? Oh, my God! [[PCP and PS rice.]] How about a 23 % VAT demonstration in the restaurant, a 23 % restaurant demonstration for VAT to return to 23 %? [[PS laughter.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking very seriously,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u369	...who did not speak very seriously was Mr Luís Montenegro, and therefore came to this debate. But we hope that, in this debate that we are going to hold around the State budget, the PSD will contribute to its proposals and that it will not just spread shocks on the proposal of the State budget, which are even offensive to the Portuguese,... [[PSD protests.]] ... that this House of the Republic should have a serious debate on what is actually proposed and not on what you invent and which is nowhere. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u370	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor now. I remind you that you have 5 minutes to respond to requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u371	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for the questions put by the three parliamentary groups which politically support the government and would like to start by saying that I noticed that for some I had too much grace and for others I was too angry. This shows the disorientation not of this bench, but of those. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u372	But I want to tell you and others that I'm not angry, I'm not angry, and much less wanted to be funny.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u373	You know, sometimes the nervousness gets to say some jokes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u374	For a very simple reason: talking about the country and talking about the Portuguese is a serious conversation, and it was this conversation that I brought to the debate. Let me tell you, sirs. Mr. João Galamba, Mr.António Filipe and Mr. Pedro Soares, who, however hard they may want to do, will not be able to demonstrate that the PSD does not want the replacement of family income.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u375	the PSD is responsible for this!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u376	You're wrong! You guys are so wrong! And I'll give you two reasons to synthesize. The first reason is that it was the PSD and the CDS-PP that, when they were in the government, they began replacing the loss of income to which Portugal was obliged before and after reaching the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u377	It was the Constitutional Court!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u378	You know why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Mr. João Galamba, already on September 30, 2010 V. Ex.a, was a fervorous according to the economic model of the Socialist Party of the Government of Eng. Socrates, supported, moreover, by Prime Minister Antonio Costa, already made the inflamed interventions as did here, following elections on the eve of which the Government of the Socialist Party told the country that everything was so good, that it was possible to increase the income of public officials by 2, 9 % and that it was possible to lower VAT... Let me tell you that we too would like to say to public officials « will increase you by 5 % or 10 %», we would very much like not to have had EUR 78 billion in bailouts so that we can lower taxes. But on the eve of the elections in 2009 you made the figure that they do today, saying that it was possible to give everything to everyone, that it was possible to give everything to everyone. [[PS protests.]] And you know what happened? Less than a year later, from September 30, 2010, with the Government of the Socialist Party, with the applause of Mr Galamba and the protest of the Deputies Antonio Filipe and Pedro Soares — Voilà, were other times ; at the time they protested, now they are complicit, is a sign of the times, I do not know if it is such a false conscience that Mr João Galamba spoke of —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u379	You have no conscience!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u380	..., VAT rose to 23 %, public service salaries fell, pensions were frozen, family allowance was cut, medical examinations were more expensive, income for insertion lost 20 %, state transfers were cut, investment was cut to zero and there was a reduction in contracts. I still have two more pages to read. They want to hear the rest or are already remembered more than they did to the country in 2010, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Protests]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u381	And the PSD approved that Budget! You've got a part of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u382	It was with Eduardo "Catroica"!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u383	Let's have the serious debate. This policy led to a request for external aid, led to the need to ask for a great sacrifice for people and businesses and, at that time, you said that the country would recover. Now, the country has recovered. In view of this recovery, the PSD and the CDS-PP have won the elections — it is important not to forget!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u384	And "they stayed on the bike"!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u385	On the basis of this model, the Socialist Party has galvanized a little less than 32% of the voters. However, these parliamentary groups have decided not to give full investment to the government chosen by the Portuguese. [[PS and BE protests.]] It's legitimate! Listen! Do you want to have a serious debate, or not? And then they joined together, supported the new government and told the country: "We have an alternative, it is possible to make a faster return of income." [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u386	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u387	I'm done now, Mr. President. Well, we understood that there were no conditions for that. And we were serious. [[PS protests.]] The gentlemen understood that there was. So what did they say? They said it was possible in Portugal to return income, have the country grow more and export more, have the country with more investment and more consumption. And they said that this would galvanize the economy and that, as a result, the deficit would decrease. You know what happened? None of these assumptions have occurred and the deficit is controlled only because you cut into the social state. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u388	Mr Luís Montenegro, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u389	I will finish, Mr. President. The gentlemen returned to the 2010 revenue. And let me say the following...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u390	Mr President, the rules that are set are to be complied with. And it wasn't even me who said that Mr. Deputy now had only five minutes to intervene. I therefore ask you to comply with what the Bureau has asked you to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u391	Mr President, I have a time of anything like 30 seconds more than what I should. It's not right. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u392	Sir, I'm not going to discuss time. I'm just asking you to finish. But if you don't want to finish, go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u393	Mr President, the Social Democratic Party has 55 minutes in the debate tomorrow and can transfer 30% to today. You know the rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u394	We know, you gentlemen don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u395	Please continue and finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u396	I realized that for the banks that support the government, it was better that I hadn't spoken. I get it. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] But you're really going to have to listen! We may have different models, we may have the same intentions of returning income and giving sustainability to the pension system, but there is one thing we should not do, which is to deceive people. [[PS and PCP protests.]] And you, with this Budget, want to show that your model is viable and ask people to pay for your model with more taxes and with the crisis in public services. Now, this is an invoice that is up to the opposition to denounce and this is a fight that will mobilize, first, this bench, but also the country with us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u397	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u398	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have just seen the state of the PSD, which is ultimately the state of opposition in this country. He said, even seconds ago, the parliamentary leader of the PSD that we all want more or less the same, who also liked to recover income, had been a divergence about how they would do it. Mr President, let us remember what the PSD, together with the CDS, wrote in its electoral programme. When there was a need to present the Portuguese and Portuguese priorities for changing tax policy, to whom did the PSD and CDS want to respond first? Did it go to the workers, whose IRS increased? Did you go to the pensioners? No, it was those great traumatized with austerity policy, with its millions of profits, which were Galp, EDP and REN. For these it was the will to reduce the taxes of the PSD and the CDS. And these were the priorities for the recovery of income. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Now, a PSD that goes from this line to the line of usurpation of power again a year ago is a PSD that has stopped over time and we will see if, in the debate in the specialty, it will not spend all the time abstinuing itself. It is that, from ideas to debate, we have not seen one today. There is only one charge — and it is not an idea, it is an accusation, which I will prove to be false — made by the PSD and the CDS in this debate, which is that there is a huge increase in taxes, with this State budget. There are new taxes, there is an increase in tax burden and there is even, in his words, a tax burden that is distributed in a less equal way. Now, let us see what the last State budget, presented by PSD and CDS, said about the same taxes that have been used to criticize this State budget. By 2015, IRS, which is now expected to increase EUR 37 million, as a result of economic dynamics, would increase according to the PSD and CDS EUR 426 million. What was budgeted on IRC was only EUR 258 million, compared with what they say is an abuse by 2017 of EUR 82 million. But now, in that great attack that is being directed at the price of fuels, we had an increase in 2015 proposed by PSD and CDS of EUR 190 million. But see that for 2017, contrary to what is being said by all banks and is recognised by UTAO, there is a reduction in the expected value of ISP of EUR 15 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u399	What about this year?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u400	By the way, let's put the VAT here. What was planned for 2015 by the PSD and CDS? An increase of EUR 601 million. What is planned for 2017? A value of EUR 25 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u401	That's because the economy is growing less! You still haven't noticed that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u402	I put this down, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that reality is "taking the carpet away" from the PSD and the CDS. But by the way, let us join the example of the overtax. What was planned for 2015 in relation to the overtax? They will remember that simulation made in a simulator that said that people would eventually see their overtax returned. At the end of the year, people paid EUR 930 million of overtax of IRS. I repeat, so that there is no doubt: PSD and CDS, in 2015, brought over-tax of IRS, EUR 930 million, having promised exactly the opposite. See, now, what will happen in 2017, because it must be something huge, extraordinary, in response to this continued complaint of PSD and CDS. Now, we see that, after all, there is a reduction in the overtax to EUR 180 million. That is: EUR 930 million with the PSD and the CDS in 2015 ; and EUR 180 million in the State budget for 2017. And they're outraged? Oh, my God! Well, with these outrages, we realize that there is nothing more, nothing less, than pure hypocrisy. That's the reality. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But there is another charge that is worth responding to and related to. This other charge is that the tax burden increases in 2016. Well, the Public Finance Council says no. I already said that about the State Budget for 2017, but PSD and CDS don't want to see what's ahead of them. But even UTAO acknowledges that there is a reduction in the tax burden from 25 % to 24 % 9 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u403	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u404	Now, anyone knows that 24, 9 is less than 25. But I must say, with all transparency, that we still think it is a high burden and, worse, it is badly distributed. But we compare what was planned, one year ago, by PSD and CDS and which was delivered here, in this House, as a Stability Programme. Do You Remember? It was a few months before they were run by the government by the Portuguese and Portuguese. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] The estimated tax burden for 2017, PSD and CDS was 25, 5 %, i.e. more than EUR 1000 million of difference. Therefore, when the PSD and CDS Members say that this policy is expensive, we can only conclude that what would cost people even very much was to maintain the PSD and CDS in the government, which would take over EUR 1 billion of taxes this year. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But let us now see the social effects of these policies and see how they have results in people's lives. What was the unemployment rate that PSD and CDS expected, one year ago, for 2017? It was an unemployment rate of 12, 1 %. Now, let us compare with the rate of 10, 3 % that is planned in the State budget and we will see well that economic policy is not what we would like it to be, but it has results that are far more friends of people than those who PSD and CDS have presented. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I could add to this — even to answer Mr. former Minister of Social Security what he already knows — that if PSD and CDS were in government, social disaster would be such that they would leave 250 000 pensions below 275 € per month. We are not talking about having no extraordinary increase, we are not talking about not being updated; we are talking about 250 000 pensions below €275 that were already guaranteed to be frozen for another four years. Well, this is the social brand of the PSD and CDS that we don't accept. Therefore, in this budget, there is an increase in pensions and a reinforced increase in pensions that have been frozen for so many years. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But we know—and to make it clear to all who follow this debate—that this is not the budget that the country needs, nor is it the budget that the Left Block liked.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u405	Well? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u406	It is a Budget that still has what the right knows well, which are captivating and suborbing. We're not going to be discussing here who took the most, because it was always the right, PSD and CDS. And who else bribes? The tape recorders are the same again, the PSD and CDS lottery again. But let's look at what this means in practice, in the lives of the Portuguese. And let's look at what this means, in practice, to a budget like Portuguese. We have a primary balance—and translating, for those who do not understand economics, that is what remains for the state after paying wages, pensions, public school, the National Health Service, medicines—, an excess of EUR 5000 million. To see the order of magnitude, and if it were the CDS to make these accounts, I would say that it is equivalent to about 10 submarines — EUR 5000 million, 10 submarines, accounts to the CDS. in this reality, it is clear that if we then add the interest of public debt to it, we still owe EUR 3000 million. And this is the abuse, this is the brutality of accounts that do not fight right with the defense of the social state and with the defense of the civilizational advances it represents. That is why we have this'monster' in the middle of the room—and from it we do not turn our eyes away. We know that there is a Europe that says that this is the responsibility of each of the States, which is false. The Portuguese public debt was controlled until the financial crisis in 2007 and 2008, and exploded after the speculative attack in 2009 and 2010. Therefore, it was not because of the social state, it was because of the financial markets. So we either solve this problem in defense of the social state, or we will be negotiating with the financial system. Having said that, I ask the Government, the PSD, the CDS, and also the PS, what they now think of the budget treaty, that same treaty that says that public debt is more important and that it pays creditors than to defend people, when we know that, after all, there are countries that are obliged to meet what it costs, even if they have a record of primary surplus, even if they are recordists to export capital, like Portugal, and there are countries like France, which then makes agreements under the table, so that the rules do not apply to them. Don't you think we're being silly when we're the only fools to comply with the rules of this stupid Europe? That is the conclusion that we must withdraw.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u407	It's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u408	And when we realize that there are people in the waiting queues of hospitals who need answers, that there is public investment able to create jobs that does not have a budget allocation because it is denied to pay the public debt, that there is a need to respond to the defense of public school and the hiring of more people and we realize that the money that should go there is going to public debt and to comply with rules that only fools comply, we realize that, when the rule is unfair, the only fair rule is to disobey—and that is the choice of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my speech by referring to what we have already achieved in this State budget: an increase and an enlargement, never before seen, of family allowance—until the end of the legislature, all children up to three years will have access to family allowance, which means an important step forward in defending the social state; the strengthening of the fight against poverty through either the CIS or the CSR, which contrasts well with the 72 000 elderly people who have been thrown off the CIS by the PSD and the CDS and which we now have to include; the social water tariff, to bring in something extremely relevant that we started with the social energy tariff—over 700 000 families have a reduction in their electricity bill, the result of this parliamentary majority, the result of the work that the Left Block has done, and now we have to extend this conquest to the social water tariff; the increase of pensions; and the guarantee that there is a reduction of taxes on work. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] But we still have a way to improve. We can improve the defense of the electricity bill paid by families with the attack on the power guarantee mechanism, suspending this payment until a new model enters into force. We need to respond to public schools that have a chronic deficit of assistants increasing the planned allocation of 300 auxiliaries, which is in our hands, as parliamentarians, to carry forward. We must respond to the attack on social communication and democracy which is the attempt to repeat what the PSD and CDS have done with the restriction on the Lusa. I believe that we can guarantee that we will take steps not to copy the bad practices of the PSD and CDS and not to continue with Miguel Relvas' legacy. We also have to ensure that property tax will not leave anyone out of it — and this proposal will be improved in the specialty. For the first time, social security will have extraordinary funding to secure its future, and we will ensure greater fiscal justice by going to seek the money where it exists, to real estate fortunes. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with one of the major challenges of this Parliament, we must face as soon as possible. There are measures which the Left Block and the Government, in the working groups that have taken place, have already managed to put on the table and which will be applied as soon as possible, particularly as regards precariousness, the response to the contributing careers of green receipts and the need to guarantee rights to those on the labour market in our country. But it is also necessary for the State, as an employer, to set an example. This government can no longer leave the report on precariousness in the Public Administration, which was planned to be advertised so that we can work on it. It is urgent, the deadline has already passed, and it is a matter of decency, of defending labour rights, in which the State must be exemplary. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u409	Mr President, the time you spent the most in your speech is short in the time available for tomorrow. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Deputy of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u410	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the honourable Member leaves a challenge here. I think the great challenge of the Block would be, once and for all, to get a position on the Budget and a position on the government. It's just that the Block has something very curious: everything that's nice, everything that's popular, everything that's right, the Block is not only in favor, but it's the Block that got it, it's the Block that got it; because what's antipathy, what's hard to explain, what's unpopular, it's a government thing or the PC, you have nothing to do with it. [[Well, well! It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u411	PC? Oh, my God! PCP, please!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u412	And so it is in several things. Interestingly, the honourable Member had no problem speaking of them in the rostrum. It's the case of interest. He said: 'We spend a lot of money on interest, we need to renegotiate public debt. And he also says: « The Block does not turn away the look. » Look, I do not know whether or not to deviate, but who votes, votes, and votes with the Government, votes with those interests and votes with the expense of those interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u413	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u414	So, honourable Member, it is not enough to find out, we need to vote. What is not very coherent or very congruent is that you say something in the pulpit and then, when the time comes to vote, the vote is the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u415	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u416	It's about the same thing with pensions. The honourable Member says: 'We do not forget pensioners', and I think very well. I think it is very shocking that, for example, when Mr. João Galamba calls a micro ensemble of 1 million pensioners with minimum social and rural pensions less than 275 €, to whom you will not give the increase of 10 €, he looks at the side and more than look at the side, vote. I think it's embarrassing. And, moreover, I also find it a shame that the honourable Member, who talked so much about the 2015 Budget, has not been reviving his proposals, for example : « In 2015, the value of the indexer of social support is increased by 25 €. » Mr, what did you do to this proposal? Did you turn your eyes away? Your vote is not here, in this proposal, your vote is there, in the government! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Who saw them and who saw them!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u417	Finally, Mr President, I hear you talk a lot about income replacement. I am very curious that you forget, for example, that the replacement of income in public service began, precisely in this year 2015. I am very curious to forget that the ESC (extraordinary contribution of solidarity) ended up for pensions of less than € 4600 precisely in this year of 2015. These are forgetfulness that suits the Block. When something is nice, when something is popular, you are there; when it is unfriendly, others who are responsible. Mr President, for you this may seem political, I think - simply not very serious. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u418	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u419	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I did not want to put her in the position of making such a shameful speech, so many times she repeated the word « shame». [[CDS-PP protests.]] But I must tell you that I am not ashamed of being on the Left Block and that we have achieved, as a result of this majority parliament, something that the CDS claimed and never achieved. [[Congrats from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] There are 1, 5 million pensioners who will have their pension increased by 10 € in 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u420	And there are 1 million pensioners without an increase!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u421	Did the CDS ever get this? Don't! There are 250 000 pensioners with pensions below 275 €, who were frozen by the CDS. Well, I'd be ashamed to do that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u422	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u423	But no, we're going to increase these pensions also in 10 € and we're going to defuse the other pensions all. All of them! This is the big difference, Your Honor. [[Congratulations from BE.]] As far as taxes are concerned, I would be ashamed to propose that more than 700 million euros be charged in excess of IRS, which was the CDS and PSD proposal for 2017. We will ensure that there is no such proposal and that there is a reduction in labour taxes. To conclude, even to be very clear and direct, Mrs. Member, above all that this majority parliament created was sure that we could do much better than the alternative, which was the PSD and the CDS continue to impoverish the country. [[CDS-PP protests.]] That is what we have achieved: we have increased wages, we have eliminated cuts, we have increased pensions, we have increased social support, we have defended the social state, all the flags to be proud and, yes, Mrs Deputy, guarantees that they do not return to the government as soon as possible. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u424	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u425	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State budget translates, as it could only be, the orientation of this government and this parliamentary majority towards the promotion of a decent society, a society with rights, where people's rights contribute to the development of the country and where the development of the country contributes to the rights of people, and not to a society that thinks that it can develop by cutting wages, taking rights, which was what the right thought was the way. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, because we are committed to a decent society and to the construction of a decent society, which this State budget places on knowledge, on the qualification of Portuguese, on education, on higher education, on research. Therefore, it is right here to clarify a point that the right benches have sought to obscure. Although in the Budgets for 2016 and 2017, the education budget has increased EUR 483 million, when, between 2013 and 2015, it has decreased EUR 440 million, and despite the implementation of the education budget, between 2013 and 2015, it has decreased EUR 210 million and now, in 2016 and 2017, it has increased, and much, the right still speaks in cuts and in reduction in education. We need to get rid of it! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u426	You, who have chosen education as one of the public policy areas in which you cut more than was required by the Memorandum of Understanding, now speak of cuts in education! Is that what you're talking about? We need to get rid of it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] People ask why the initial budget has been exceeded by budgetary implementation. It is necessary to explain that we have seen a very heavy inheritance of subordinating education, as has also happened in other areas of social policy. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I know you don't want to hear, but listen! I'm still telling you something else: if you were careful, you'd know what you're saying. For example, when we made wage breaks also in education, where was the money for these wage breaks? He was in provisional appropriations in the Ministry of Finance. When you are going to get this money to the provisional appropriations in the Ministry of Finance, it is executed by the Ministry of Education and therefore increases the execution and we go beyond the initial budget. Of course, we know that you didn't want us to have these wage breaks. But we have done them and done them well, we have increased budget implementation in education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But there's more. I give you the example of the compensation to the teachers hired, who are entitled to them when they complete the contracts. You didn't pay them. We paid them, as it is in the law, and we also had to go get them to the funds of the Ministry of Finance to pay them. But this was done with a technique that you don't like. You would like to have planned nothing of this and to make corrections. It was a plague that you acquired, making corrections! This government provided for what needed to be done and did so without corrections, fulfilling the Budget. But that costs you, because it was to reintroduce rights. [[CDS-PP protests.]] But there's more, sirs. Members of the PSD and the CDS. Your technique of anticipating revenue and spending caused this government to pay a lot, also in education, that you were owed: the debts suffocating to artistic education that you were supposed to have paid in 2015 and did not pay, we paid them in 2016;... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u427	You left the country in bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u428	... the debts to professional education that you were supposed to have paid in 2015 and did not pay, we paid them in 2016 ; the debts to special education that you were supposed to have paid in 2015 and did not pay, we paid them in 2016 ; the curriculum enrichment activities that you were owed in 2015, we paid them in 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, that's why! Of course, we cannot do everything at once, but we are correcting the brutal subordination in education and in other areas of public policy that you have left. It cannot be done all at once, but this government is also investing in education, with the strengthening of school social action, with the universalization of pre-school education, with the promotion of school success with projects developed by schools, with free manuals already for the whole 1. the cycle of basic and secondary education. Those who are in schools know all of this, but those Members who are engaged in press conferences on commercial areas are not aware of this. And, as you don't know about this, you don't know about the country. But the country knows this is true! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u429	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u430	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I leave a note on this last statement. It is extraordinary that a party speaks of the heavy inheritance when it left, for example, quoting only one area, that of health, EUR 2000 million of debt, which the PSD/CDS government had to pay. At the most difficult time you had to exercise government functions, the PSD/CDS government paid what you left to pay for your health! [[CDS-PP applause.]] And now, if you want to talk about paying commitments, you pay special education what you have to do. It would be serious if they were to pay, at this point, not to speak of a government that paid, I am talking to the special education, to children with difficulties what you have to do, because people have come to complain to Parliament that you do not pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u431	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u432	Therefore, they fulfill your obligations before they speak of the past and before they create accounting illusionism! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already had the opportunity to say that this is the Budget of the missed opportunity, from the opportunity lost by the Socialist Party. After the failure of the last year in the area of economic growth — nothing more than the great objective of the Socialist Party for governance — we hoped that this would be the budget in which the Socialist Party reconciled with that economic growth. In fact, a party that spent four years saying that the government then, at such a difficult time, had a responsibility to lead the country, which had an obsession with the deficit and did not look at economic growth to present a growth rate that corresponds to half of what it had planned to achieve is an epic failure. It is an epic failure that deserved, at least one year later, a correction. And you don't correct because you don't want to — I recognize! — but because they are not capable. It is extraordinary that, at the end of a year of saying that everything was going to change in Portugal — it was going to change politics, the walls would fall, the economy would grow, everything would change — the only thing that changed was the framework of Dr. Centeno's forecasts, which remained for half of what he himself promised. [[CDS-PP applause.]] You have not been able to change the country, you have only managed to change your own credibility, which has fallen to the ground in just one year. But worse: you did not reconcile with economic growth and, as a matter of fact, you were reconciled with the huge increase in taxes, the one you have always criticized and now, for the second consecutive year, you welcome it in your budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u433	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u434	Don't stop being extraordinary! So, now, ladies and gentlemen, keep in your Budget the huge increase in taxes, which represented such a devil that they like to talk about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u435	Us? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u436	Does the Minister of Finance not realize that, when he speaks of stability, saying that 99, 5 % of the taxes correspond to what he came from behind, what he is saying is that he welcomes this huge increase in taxes, which leaves him silent in his budget, which keeps him in the budget? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] And he says, by default, another thing: that the 0, 5 % plus is the sole responsibility of the Socialist Party, which increased taxes by 0, 5 %, which did not receive the tax increase of the previous Government. It is extraordinary that you said everything you said in the past, that you were making speeches in the budgetary debates — I remember that current government ministers were talking about recessive spirals in years when there was economic growth and that, following the recessive spiral, which did not happen...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u437	We didn't talk about the Devil!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u438	Mr. Prime Minister, don't say that! That thing of the Devil was more for Minister Pedro Marques, who talked about the recessive spiral every time he opened his mouth and went from there, the next month, growth; he talked about the recessive spiral and went from there, the next month, recovery of employment... Anyway, not a proper beat count. Perhaps, that is why there was the result in the elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u439	Sure! Look where you are!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u440	It is because the Portuguese knew very well that you are predicting are almost as bad as governing, they knew very well what they could expect of certain types of protagonists of the Socialist Party! [[CDS-PP applause.]] I can even do justice to say that perhaps it was not of all the protagonists of the Socialist Party, but of those who headed the lists in the legislatures, and therefore the result was what was. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is also extraordinary is the lie that is said about the tax burden. Mr Finance Minister wrote a letter to Brussels — you also like to talk about the letters to Brussels, but more importantly than the letters to Brussels in the past month — saying that the prospect of tax revenue was extremely conservative. So let's see what that means. If the demand for tax revenue, contrary to what has been said here — considered by the neutral UTAO, i.e. for UTAO the 2017 budget does not increase or decrease the tax burden — is confirmed by what the government says, it will be greater than what is budgeted, the consequence is obvious: the tax revenue will increase above nominal growth and the tax burden will increase. So what you said to Brussels is that you lied to Parliament, you had entered in the State budget a tax revenue value below the one you expect, not for any other reason than that you are unable to submit a budget that reduces the tax burden. And it's not capable because there's no growth and, as there's no growth, it has to go get the money in the Portuguese pockets, and make it increase the tax burden. But we also hoped that this would be the Budget in which the PS would reconcile with social cohesion, because by the words of Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you, in the last year, have left 6000 beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement for the elderly. Funny reality! If they have been going all this time to make a war between the solidarity complement for the elderly and the minimum pensions saying it was wrong to increase minimum pensions because the social benefit that effectively combats poverty was the solidarity complement for the elderly, why did you send 6,000 people away from the solidarity supplement for the elderly? Oh, my God! So they failed in social cohesion! Then they failed in the main instrument of combating poverty in the elderly! Those are your words! They're your goals! If the instrument is the solidarity complement for the elderly and if it has fewer than 6000 beneficiaries than it was in our time, you are worse in social policy not only according to our parameter, but also according to your parameter. They failed not only in relation to what was coming from behind, but also failed again in relation to the objectives they set. The worst social insensitivity is what happens with the increases in pensions. You increase your pensions by € 263 by € 7500. Ironically, €263 is the value of the lowest pensions, which you increase 1 €. Is this social sensitivity? Oh, my God! Is it social sensibility to increase a pension as much as a pensioner earns per month? Oh, my God! Is that what socialists are for? Is that what the Left Block is for? Is that what PCP is for? Do they serve to give a pensioner who receives €7500 as much as he receives a pensioner with the minimum pension? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Perhaps, it is because by the words of a socialist who has just made an intervention in this Parliament, these pensioners are a subset. A subset that is no more than 1 million people! I repeat, 1 million people!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u441	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u442	Do you send out 6000 beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, call together the subset, 1 million pensioners of the minimum pensions, and then want to teach about social sensibility? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u443	Want to teach lessons who throws off 6000 pensioners? Oh, my God! You want to teach lessons who calls a subset to whom you least have? Oh, my God! Respectful, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Respect! To govern is certainly to make choices, it is to make difficult choices—and we had to make difficult choices—but it is to have the face raised to explain them and it is, indeed, to have a prime minister who looks at it, which we have never stopped having in the most difficult times when we had to present the most difficult measures! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Today, we know that there are fewer than 6,000 pensioners in solidarity with the elderly, but we have not heard the Prime Minister refer to this. We know that the pensions increase by €263 to €7500, but we did not hear the Prime Minister refer to that. He laughed more than the previous Prime Minister, but he gave less face than he had to take options at such difficult heights. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] This would also be the opportunity of the Left Block and the CFP to reconcile with its proposals from the past, as Mrs Cecilia Meireles has now well demonstrated. But, of course, the Left Block and the PCP, as they cannot defend this Budget, continue to oppose the previous budgets. As I also said, at least Mrs Cecilia Meireles opposed the previous budgets with the same proposals. Mrs. Members, if they continue to talk about the 2015 State Budget, then make the proposals they made in 2015! If they continue to talk about the past, they present the proposals they have put forward in the past! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It is that neither you are capable of this, nor are they courageous, nor are you able to do so. You just talk about the past for what you're interested in. It is also extraordinary to repair in the Left Block, which, I would say, using the type of expressions you normally use, does not give one for the fee! [[BE's protests.]] The Block has invented a tax that is probably the biggest legal-fiscal aberration one day proposed in a Budget in Portugal. This tax removes a number of entities which, obviously, cannot be withdrawn, which were taxed in the form of a seal tax such as the offshore tax,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u444	It's a lie from the beginning to the end!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u445	...and, stop it, we've come to the day that the Left Block is creating a fee that frees the offshore from paying taxes. This is an extraordinary moment! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u446	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u447	Mrs. Members, they do not give one for the fee, but they do not give one for the Box, because this week, in relation to the General Deposit Box, they have already started to "put the rape in the bag" and to say that perhaps, after all, it is enough for the administrators to deposit the returns to the Constitutional Court. That says a lot about the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u448	It is false, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u449	Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares is not saying that it is false, he brought, to print, a copy of the title of an interview he gave, in which he says it is unacceptable that there is overtax in 2017. We hope that Mr Pedro Filipe Soares will be consistent. I just can't take photocopy because the printer is like the metro : it has no paper! [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u450	The left printer works!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u451	So I couldn't print the news so I could show you right now. I'm sorry about that. [[BE's protests.]] The CFP has already regretted the fact that pensions have not increased €10, as proposed, but only €4. The gentlemen. Members speak of 2015, but in 2015 they propose that pensions increase €25. What happened to the other 15 €? You lost 15 € on the way on the proposal you presented and, after losing 15 € on the way, you lost 6 € on the negotiation. So, what do you guys do for? To be losing 15 € along the way and more 6 € in the negotiation and at the end only get 4 €? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if that is the case, it is very little! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] This is also a missed opportunity because, as has already been said, it was the setting which would allow an alternative of true economic growth. So the Socialist Party did not, in the opposition, say that the interest in public debt was evolving because there was a favourable policy of the European Central Bank for this to happen? Oh, my God! This policy has not changed, but the evolution of Portugal's interest rate has changed. Why? If, in the past, interest goes down because there was a policy of the European Central Bank and now it comes up, what has changed if it is not the policy of the European Central Bank? When did we benefit from an oil price as low as the one we have now? How long have we not benefited from such great growth of our main trading partner, which is Spain? In other words, how long has it been since we had such a favourable situation to have economic growth and recovery? And you, the growth arrears when you were in opposition, are able to present anemic and totally insufficient growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u452	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u453	Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that, in view of this missed opportunity, we do not lower our arms, we do not do what you did in the opposition. You, after condemning the country to a Memorandum of Understanding, went to the opposition to account. They went to the opposition to realize that it was nothing with you,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u454	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u455	... were for the opposition to note that what the country was suffering was not the consequence of your governance, it was for the opposition to note that they had no responsibility to present alternatives, it was for the opposition to bear in mind that they had no responsibility to build with us a path of recovery of the country. We're not gonna do the same, we're gonna put forward proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u456	You're making a critique to the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u457	It's the operation "OMO washes whiter"!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u458	The opportunity is lost for the PS, but cannot be lost for Portugal ; the opportunity is lost for the government, but cannot be lost for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u459	It's the operation "OMO washes whiter"!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u460	That is why we are going to put forward proposals when discussing the speciality, that is why we are going to defend economic recovery, that is why we are going to defend social cohesion, which is why we believe that there are Portuguese people who deserve to be represented in this Parliament and that, clearly today, they are not represented either by the government or by the insufficiency of the parties that support it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u461	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u462	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u463	That being the case, to ask for clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u464	Mr President, Prime Minister and other government members, Mr João Almeida, that the CDS does not like this budget already everyone has noticed. What the country would like to know is what the CDS proposes for what would be an alternative budget, what would be the CDS budget. I will ask you very specific questions: how much would the salaries of civil servants be, that the CDS, now so much defends, in a CDS budget? How many hours would public employees work on a CDS budget? How would the CDS distribute the 600 million cuts in pensions that you promised Brussels? And answer directly: how much would I cut to 200 €? How much would I cut up at $400? How much would I cut to 600 €? And now perhaps I can ask Mr Mota Soares why, despite the isolation of pensions that the CDS has made, the increase in poverty in the elderly has never been as great as in the years when the CDS ruled. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] You will have to ask whether this increase in poverty should not be due to the fact that the CDS has left 250 000 pensions below €275. What's it like? Why has poverty increased in the elderly? What would the CDS Budget be? What would the CDS choose? School manuals or association contracts to feed the profit of the private? [[Congratulations from BE.]] What would the CDS choose? Would you choose a standard that would tax large real estate assets or choose a legal aberration, which is a tax that, after all, does not catch anyone and does not charge anything? What is the real legal aberration? Is that the one who pays the estate and goes there to get the money or is that the one who's just to pretend and then the money, after all, you don't see it? What is the real legal aberration?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u465	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u466	You will have to explain how the CDS defends pensioners and, at the same time, the ceiling on social security. You will have to explain why you are giving some of the pensions to the banks. The honourable Member will have to explain to public officials whether or not he is going to propose in the State budget what he was defending in the Government Programme and in the reform plan of former Member Paulo Portas, which was the dismissal of civil servants.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u467	Redeployment of public servants? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u468	You will have to explain whether or not you will propose the legislative amendment allowing the dismissal of civil servants. The honourable Member will have to explain whether or not he will say that the way to defend public services is the same as the way to reform the state in which he said: « continuing reform is privatization ». What are the privatizations that the CDS will propose in the State Budget? Finally, you will have to explain how you can talk about public school, the needs of public school and investment failures in public school and, at the same time, defend the teaching check, which is the profit of the schools. You're going to have to explain the consistency in intervening here and tearing clothes for defense of public school...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u469	public schools that are closed or that are open? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u470	... and having a president who cannot say « sacrifice the public school». [[CDS-PP protests.]] You will have to explain how much the budget sacrifice of the public school would be. You will have to explain how it would be translated into euro in the budget the sacrifice that the Member Christian Assumption wanted to make to the public school. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] There's a lot for the CDS to explain and, Mr. Members, one thing is true: version 1 or version 2 of this Budget are both better than anyone the CDS could present. The CDS is hiding its real program, it's hiding, it's creating a cute version of the one who would be your Budget, but it's already everybody who realized that this "fofinha" version only serves the election campaign, it's not the country! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u471	Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u472	Mr President, Mr João Almeida, I must say that although I did not like to hear your speech, I prefer this CDS 2.0. We are now almost on top of the Summit Web and let me tell you that, in fact, this CDS 2.0 is much more interesting than the one that governed the country for four years. One of the most interesting aspects in this debate of the State Budget for 2017 is the fact that Mr.Minister of Finance wants other Members to bring small lyrical points. I, listening to Mr Deputy, reminded me of Shakespeare, but I had to make a slight adjustment in the sentence. The slight adaptation is as follows: it is much worse to be a slave to your silences than to be king of your words!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u473	Silence? Oh, my God! What are you talking about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u474	This is because, during the four years when the CDS was a government, when we had the debate on the huge increase in taxes, you voted in favour; when we had the debate on overtax in this House, you voted in favour; when we had the debate on the cuts in pensions in this House, you voted in favour; when we spoke in State budgets which have diminished the social income of insertion and the solidarity supplement for the elderly, you voted in favour; when in this House we sought alternatives to this path, which was a path that had no alternative, you voted against the proposals of this bench. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You gentlemen, with your silence, for four years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u475	What are you talking about? What silence? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u476	... they have kept Christian democracy in a drawer and today they come to this debate to discuss a budget that is much closer to the Christian democracy that you claim than the budgets that you have voted in favour for four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, in spite of everything, I would prefer the CDS 2.0 which is in opposition and which returns to Christian democracy than the CDS which, according to Mrs Cecilia Meireles, has ruled against her convictions and which has overshadowed the most neoliberal agenda that this Parliament has known since 25 April! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u477	And the troika you called? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u478	So let me tell you, Mr Member, when the CDS was, in the first version, the taxpayer's party, we were in favour; the CDS went to the government and became the party to the increase of the IRS. When the CDS was the pensioner's party and on the fairs it stood for pensioners, we agreed; the CDS went to the government and cut off the pensions. When the CDS defended social solidarity, Christian democracy, we agreed, but you went to the government and cut the family allowance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u479	I don't remember ever the PS being in agreement with the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u480	Ladies and gentlemen, it is very interesting that the CDS returns to Christian democracy, but it is not enough to return, because you, returning to this debate today, have an opportunity, which is to participate in the debate in the field of specialty, to be able to contribute to improve this Budget and, let me say, the CDS, the old CDS of Christian democracy, which has been linked and which has in time supported a government of the Socialist Party, would support this Budget more than any one of the Budgets that you have voted favourably for four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u481	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u482	Mr Member, this is the time to ask you a simple question: if you are returning in this version 2.0 to Christian democracy, if you say that this government does not reduce taxes—but the truth is that the overtax of IRS will end on 31 December 2017... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u483	I don't know what the surprise is, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. On a proposal from the CDS, the overtax of IRS ended in 2020, according to your accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] As far as pensions are concerned, this government will increase them by almost EUR 190 million, while for four years you have increased EUR 30 million. I hope to have your contribution, but we are much closer to the pensioners' party than to the budgets that you have approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u484	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u485	When we increase the solidarity complement for the elderly, the social income of insertion, the family allowance, when we defuse the IAS, all budgetary matters, we are much closer to the social solidarity party than the one that supported a neoliberal government for four years. Mr President, the question is simple: do you not consider that this State budget is a proposal that is much closer to the basic values of the CDS than the budgets that you have voted for, for four years, alongside the PSD? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u486	To reply, Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u487	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Brillante Dias, I confess that I do not, as I think you do not have any certainty either, to speak historically of Christian democracy. But I'll just tell you the following: I don't know which encyclical is that I read that to increase 263 € to a pension of 7500 € had greater social justice than to increase 1 € to a pension of 263 €!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u488	It was the CDS that proposed it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u489	You have to tell me what an encyclical is that you have read this concept of social justice and Christian democracy, Mr President! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] But I will also tell you this: when you increased VAT, we voted against it; when you frozen pensions, we voted against it; when you frozen the salaries of civil servants, we voted against it. You want to know how we voted in the past? We voted faithful to our matrix.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u490	That's not what they did!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u491	But, honourable Member, our matrix has something else, which belongs to the parties that are built against the political moments of difficulty when they are born. We were born at a time when no one wanted, in Portugal, to emerge a right party with the courage to put the country above any ideological issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u492	It's the vendettalons of the temple!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u493	What we did in the last government was put the country above any ideological issue. You have led the country to bankruptcy and we do not resign from our responsibility! [[PS and PCP protests.]] It is true that we had to acknowledge several times that there were things for which we had to contribute and that they were contrary to our matrix. But, honourable Member, more important than keeping the ideological matrix is keeping our head up in defense of our country. And the difference between your party and our party is that when the country was on the brink of bankruptcy, you fled and we said « present». [[PS protests.]] The great difference is not ideological. The difference is how we view the responsibility that is assigned to us! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]] The gentlemen took refuge in the opposition so that someone would clean up what they had done and wait for power to fall into your hands. The Portuguese did not give you that power and you were opportunistically knocked at the doors of the idiots useful to support you in the government and to achieve a power that they did not have in the polls! [[All right!]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u494	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no offense. Idiots are useful when, in opposition, they have ideas and, in power, they have only votes. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] That's why they're useful idiots. They've stopped having ideas and just got votes! The question is simple, there is no offense! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u495	Mr President, the day is already very advanced and I would ask that there be some restraint in the images which, I know, are figures. Anyway, there could be some restraint at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u496	Mr President, the day is slightly more advanced than it was when Mr Eurico Brillante Dias spoke. Mrs Joana Mortágua, who has also asked questions, I will say that on the parties « dolphins » or on the campaigns « dolphins », I am up to the last campaign of the Left Block. To please, the Left Block has done well, but now you have to answer for what it rules. Madam Member, we replied: what happened to the salaries of civil servants? They were still being returned, as they were returned in the last budget we brought here. [[False! False!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u497	What's the question? What's the question? In the 2015 State Budget, which we brought here, there was a return of maturity to public servants. I was continuing this return. What happened to pensions? They kept recovering, as they did. [[They froze!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u498	Madam Member, until I tell you the following:...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u499	What about working hours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u500	...we were even able to keep part of the ESC. I have to tell you, with all frontality, that you're right. We were able to keep part of the ESC for pensions above €4750 to increase minimum pensions that you do not increase. We were capable of that! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] I courageously tell you that we were able to maintain the extraordinary contribution of solidarity in order to increase minimum pensions. After all, that is what we did when we ruled, Mrs. That's what we did when we ruled. We were able to do the same. [[BE's protests.]] The question is very simple, and I shall finish: there are those who have to take responsibility in times of embarrassment and those who have to take responsibility in times when freedom is much greater. You with more freedom can achieve less results than we have achieved with greater embarrassment, with greater difficulty. Do you know what the greatest advantage, the greatest virtue we've ever achieved? We have inherited a country in bankruptcy and external dependence and delivered it with economic growth, without external dependence and with a balanced deficit. The big difference is that! One day you get that, we can talk the same terms. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u501	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u502	Mr President, Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, may I ask you a question? [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u503	But I'm gonna do it the same way. [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]] Mr. Deputy was able to tell me who were the useful idiots of the troika? Can you answer that question? [[Congratulations from BE, PCP and PS Members.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u504	That's easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u505	So I'm going to answer by Mr.Ps: PS, PSD and CDS have woken up and signed the troika program that strangled the country. Don't get rid of your responsibility! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u506	Everybody's happy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u507	Madam Member, I would also like to ask you for some restraint at this time, because we are all very tired. I ask you to continue, but with some restraint.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u508	Excuse me, Mr. President, but I don't understand...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u509	A short time ago, I made this observation in relation to a terminology that was now also used.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u510	Of course, Mr. President. So, with proper restraint, I mean that you guys are. Members of the CDS and PSD are having a serious problem trying to rewrite recent history... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ...and trying not to assume your responsibility, Mr. It is that the PS, the PSD and the CDS had great responsibility for such EUR 78 billion that you have talked about so much, ensuring that there was no shortage of money for the banks, but for the people it was always missing. The intervention of the PSD recently was, I think, quite revealing how you do not really care about people. Mr Luís Montenegro recently asked the House a question: are people better today?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u511	He knows there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u512	So, Mr. Deputies, were people better off with their salaries cut? Oh, my God! Were people better off with their pensions cut and frozen? Oh, my God! Were people better off with the cut in social support? Oh, my God! Were people better when you were lowering taxes on big businesses and raising taxes on people? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u513	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u514	They paid less taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u515	Were you better, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God! Are you having fun with the House or with the Country? Honestly, sir! Open... [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] Then you give me the idea that you continue with a chronic problem: it is not to put your feet on the ground. They don't pay attention to the reality. Mr President, I am going to tell you one thing, of the most difficult moments for me, that I have been going to the Assembly for many years, that is when we started to receive emails and communications from teachers from schools saying to us: "careful that goes around a serious problem, because there are many children who get to school hungry. They don't have breakfast. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u516	That's for those government gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u517	Do you know what we've done, Mr? And it was our responsibility, wasn't it any favor we did, in response to these communications that came to us? If you remember, it was right here in this plenary of the Assembly of the Republic that we questioned the government and said: "Be careful because there is a serious problem and the children get to school hungry, do not take breakfast, and many of them, the only meal they take during the day is lunch." And you know, Mr. Member, what was the response we got from the government at that time? That they weren't sure if that was true, that they still needed to confirm this reality, that numbers, numbers, numbers... and we were asking, what about people? What about people? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]] Now, just to remind you that when you spoke in the 'promise everything', you also promised everything to everyone. So, don't you remember that you had promised that, until the end of the Legislature, you would guarantee a family doctor for all Portuguese people? They failed in your proposal and in your promise! They failed round and round! And now here we are trying to make this a reality for all Portuguese. That's what we're working for. And this to say what? That in this State budget one of the top priorities of the Greens - and yes, we spoke to the government about it even before the presentation of the State budget - was that it had a clear social component. I had to. There is another priority the Greens have taken on. This State budget also had to have an environmental component. We are faced with serious environmental problems in the country and, therefore, the Greens have contributed to this State budget, and they will continue to give at the level of the speciality, in particular to a serious problem, which runs in the speeches of all parliamentary groups, but we need concrete action, such as the question of the replacement of the sub23 pass, for university students, in order to reduce the price of the title of transport and encourage the use of collective transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u518	By September!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u519	Now let's see if I remember well. Who has ended with this incentive to use collective transport? It was PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u520	The gentlemen took him out!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u521	More: we will propose that, at the IRS headquarters, people can deduct their social pass. It is another contribution to promoting the use of collective transport. And we're going to propose more nature vigilantes, because we need to have another look at nature conservation and human resources are fundamental. Yes, let's propose what you have restricted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u522	I would like to know what you say to the environment budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u523	We will propose a strategy and present concrete proposals for the re-enhancing of the interior. in this sense, there is already the State Budget that was a Greens proposal to reduce IRC to micro, small and medium-sized companies that carry on their activity inside, to dynamize this range of territory and combat regional asymmetries and, at the same time, to stimulate the activity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why the Greens are working: a strong social component, a strong environmental component. Ask-CL-me: but this is the Budget where Greens are completely reversing? No, it's not. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u524	We're not here to fool anyone! It is not the Budget of the Green State... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u525	...but, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, put your hand on your conscience and see clearly the difference that it presents with respect to those who were the State budgets of the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u526	If the PSD and CDS approved the Budget, the Portuguese would keep their pockets lighter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u527	Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs, Manuel Caldeira Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u528	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs. Members, the State Budget for 2017 makes an important contribution to strengthening confidence and promoting growth and investment in Portugal. This is the second budget we present. It is also the second budget in which we propose at the same time a fall in the government deficit, continuing budgetary consolidation, and a reduction in the tax burden, ensuring stability and confidence for businesses and families. This is a responsible budget, which ensures fiscal stability and income replacement, rests normal after the instability experienced in the adjustment period. The 2017 Budget has clear signs for companies. This is a budget that supports those who invest, with the extension of the automatic system of investment tax credit; which supports investment firms, by strengthening their own capital with the extension of the conventional remuneration scheme of social capital and the increase of the remuneration rate from 5 % to 7 % — we want with this measure that those who strengthen capitalisation have a deduction scheme that approaches those who use banking — and it is also a budget that supports those who wage in innovation, with the implementation of the Seed programme, which grants tax benefits to investors in new businesses. It is also a budget that supports internationalised companies, with the strengthening of the number of international agreements to avoid double taxation and the progressive elimination of VAT payments in customs, which is a measure that has a strong impact on both the treasury of companies and on strengthening the competitiveness of our ports. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also a Budget that benefits businesses from the internal market, and in particular SMEs, with the fall from IRC to 12 % in the first €15 000 to be taxed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the measures implemented in the State budget for 2017 are not appreciable measures but rather measures included in the Government strategy since it took possession. This is a budget that implements fiscal measures of the Capitalize programme and the Startup Portugal programme, measures of our strategy for tourism and the area of energy, measures to simplify the life of companies, provided for in Simplex +, and measures proposed by the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior. These measures are part of broader reform programmes, which we have begun to implement since the beginning of 2016 and which are being implemented in the State Budget for 2017, following integrated proposals for structural reform for the country. The Portuguese economy is growing, giving today positive signs of confidence of investors, which has improved since the beginning of the year. In the second quarter we had a better performance than in the first quarter and we have good indications of improvement in the third quarter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] contrary to what happened last year, in which the economy has been slowing down over the year, we are having more positive signs throughout the year, which we hope will also be strengthened in 2017. The government, in the first months, worked to improve payments and accelerate structural funds to strengthen investment. We launched Plan 100 and put EUR 116 million in companies in the first 100 days of governance. In July, we strengthened this commitment to the investment accelerator programme Portugal 2020, increasing the support rate for companies that accelerate investment processes. Until September, we received more than 21,000 applications, approved more than 6300 projects and made incentives payments to companies of more than 330 million euros. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The strong demand for funds by companies demonstrates a strengthening of the confidence of national investors and entrepreneurs. The high level of indebtedness of Portuguese companies is still an obstacle to growth; therefore, we define the financing and capitalisation of companies as a priority and we launched the Capitalisation programme, which includes fiscal and administrative simplification measures, which we are implementing in this Budget, business restructuring measures, which should be presented by the end of this year, and the new financing and investment instruments, which we have implemented since March of this year. These financing and capitalisation instruments finance investments up to EUR 17 billion for SMEs and include: lines of credit with guarantee for investment support, which are already available; a line of capitalisation, with financing for reversible capital operations for SMEs; venture capital and support for Business Angels, whose competition has already been completed and which will allow more than EUR 220 million to be made available to invest in new companies; we also launched lines of financing specific to the tourism sector, which are already having a high demand, and this Budget will enable these instruments to be strengthened and the Investment Fund for Tourism to be launched. We had, in the first half of this year, a growth in non-financial companies' investment and also a growth in foreign direct investment in virtually all sectors of the economy. We want more modern and productive Portugal. Since the first day, we have been promoting innovation and technological improvement in our industry as a competitiveness strategy, not accepting the idea that competitiveness is strengthened by lower wages. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Only by creating more value for innovation can we be more competitive and, this year, we are demonstrating that, even with the increase in the minimum wage and with the strengthening of wages and income, it was possible to create more employment, it was possible to have more investment by private companies. in this sense, we have made an important effort to mobilize the financial instruments and funds of Portugal 2020, but we have also made this mobilization to support innovation and to support and strengthen the work of technological centres. We are developing programs to accelerate the digitalization of industry and support for startups, with Industry 4.0 and Startup Portugal, which has already created a network of national incubators, which has already launched instruments such as Startup Voucher and Vale de Incubação and which, in this Budget, implements one more of its measures, the Seed programme, which creates a system of tax incentives that places Portugal at the level of best practices in support of startups and innovative companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are also promoting the internationalization of innovative companies, leveraging the opportunities of the Web Summit to capture new investors. In energy, we reduced the cost of electricity to more than 700 000 families, with the automatic introduction of the social tariff, bringing social justice of something that was in contracts but, in practice, was not reaching families of lower income. We have reduced the price of natural gas by more than 18 % for consumers and between 22 % and 29 % for companies. This budget provides for more measures for the sector, such as the creation of a trader changer, which will bring more competition and more competitiveness, lowering prices to final consumers. In 2017, we will have for the first time since 2006 an increase in the price of electricity lower than inflation growth, something that has not been seen since 2006. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, The State Budget for 2017 is a budget with clear signs for companies: it supports those who invest, with the extension of the automatic regime of tax credit to investment; it supports companies that are capitalised; it supports companies that are engaged in innovation; it facilitates and simplifies life for companies that export or invest in Portugal; it benefits those who invest and maintain jobs in Portugal. The Budget implements fiscal measures of the Capitalisation and Startup Portugal programme, implements measures of our strategy for tourism and energy, implements the proposals of the Mission Unit for the Development of the Interior. It is the second budget of the current government, it is the second budget that restores income, lowers the tax burden and pursues a responsible path of consolidation and investment support. No, with this Budget, the country is not worse, it is better! [[P.S.'s applause.]] No, with this budget, the Portuguese don't get any better... [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u529	He ran away from her mouth to the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u530	I'm sorry, with this Budget, the Portuguese don't get any worse, they get better! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And they get better with more work and more trust! It is a budget that strengthens the confidence of companies but also reinforces something very important, which is the confidence of Portuguese citizens, increasing their income and strengthening their hope that they will have a job next day and will have decent wages in the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u531	You've ruined your conversation, Minister! That's why they don't like it anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u532	This is a Budget that strengthens confidence in the economy and the confidence of investors and is a Budget with which we expect to improve economic growth next year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u533	Mr Minister, three Mrs have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to know how you want to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u534	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u535	All right, Minister. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u536	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, on the part of the Portuguese Communist Party, has already been put, in this debate, with all clarity, the assessment we make of the proposal for a State Budget and the opportunity it represents for the country, which should not be underestimated or wasted. I am referring to the opportunity to restore and conquer rights, to consolidate and continue with fair progress and measures to cut off with the direction of national disaster, exploitation and impoverishment that right-wing policy imposed on workers, populations, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. in this debate and in the work we have ahead, we will be here to intervene, with the aim of limiting negative aspects that the Budget entails and to include new advances necessary to improve people's living conditions. It is in this sense that we want to highlight two issues of great importance in this debate. The first question is support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular by reducing the value of the special payment on account. The CFP is an endemic aberration that should simply no longer exist and it is urgent to move forward for its elimination and replacement by consistent and appropriate criteria for a fiscal justice policy. This is the proposal of the CFP and it is time finally to move forward in this direction. The reduction of the minimum limit to €850 is an important measure that must be considered as a principle of the end of the CFP. The second question is also a central issue for the living conditions of Portuguese and national companies. We are talking about reducing the energy bill for the population and economic activity, especially for the productive sectors. It is that we well remember the critical situation that companies, particularly micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, have faced over these years with energy costs to achieve incompatible values.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u537	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u538	And we learned yesterday that, while these companies were discussing these problems, while national production was penalized, while jobs were destroyed, while families were desperate to pay their bills and while Galp refused to pay the extraordinary contribution on the energy sector, while this happened, Galp was doing business on international markets, with illegitimate value resulting from natural gas supply contracts. These are trade margins which, according to ERISE, are expected to reach EUR 1158 million in the total period under review — a real national scandal that cannot be unpunished! It must be returned to Portuguese consumers, which does not belong to Galp, and this means reducing the prices of natural gas in terms that correspond to what is at stake, of course, with this process. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, the reality that is imposed on the economy and national life is to sharpen the confrontation of monopolistic groups with the interests of the people and the country, in working relationships, where they seek to force the worsening of exploitation, in sectors and economic areas of different kinds, where small businesses are crushed and favourable options are given for monopolistic groups. This is what happens in the strategic sectors, with indebtedness and decapitalization of companies and with poor management options and outside the country's interest, as demonstrated by developments in companies such as TTCs and TAPs or EDP investments in the United States or the management of Cimpor in Portugal. It is well in view of the result for the country of this domain of the great economic and transnational groups, in direct confrontation and in the compromise of the national interest and the right of the Portuguese people to a sovereign and developed country. We therefore reaffirm that it is urgent to change policy on fundamental issues. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u539	You have the floor now, too, to ask for clarification, Mr Luís Moreira Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u540	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, in this debate, we would all be waiting for the proposals that the PSD has announced it would have to make to this budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u541	This is the general debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u542	Moreover, the proposals, which are not mercenary, could well be announced in the debate in general. Well, the debate, for the PSD, was short. And it was short because it is already short to praise your past and to diabolize the past that preceded it. That is why it has mixed up in its own areas, but we would like to hear what they would have to say, when so much they claim about economic growth and its need and this government has a political programme with obvious reflection in budgetary exercises. So this is essentially the question that the country has to ask this great party of opposition: do they talk so much about the need for economic growth, where is the PSD in relation to this matter? Oh, my God! PSD is normal: proposals, zero! But I could at least appreciate the measures of the Government and of the parties that make up this majority. It's just hard! It is difficult for the PSD to appreciate the measures contained in the Budget because its requirement determines the failure and failure of the previous government's economic policy. That is why I have to ask you, Minister for Economic Affairs, what country and what economy do you demand the need for a Capitalisation programme? What country and what economy do they demand the need for a Seed program or a Startup Portugal program? What country and what economy do they require a tax regime that is friendly to companies investing in the interior? What country does it need, in such a sudden manner, to speed up the application of Community funds, as this government is doing? And what country does it have an economy that needs a new system for customs VAT? Well, it is a country whose economy needs to be leveraged and its own policies to grow. If we were to continue the course that brought us here, we would be in the inevitable scourge of their circumstances. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, I leave to you the questions of the Socialist Party, firm in our support for the policy conducted by this Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u543	Finally, and to ask for clarification, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u544	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, do not take me seriously, but the Minister has managed to do in the debate what he does in the economy: a cooldown. [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] In fact, we were in the face of a heated debate, as we were in the face of a desire for the economy to grow, and the Minister was able to effectively slow down the debate and slow down economic growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u545	The screams are good! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u546	Mr Minister, I think it has been repeated here very often, but I will also say that this budget is, in fact, unusual. It is that it does not solve any problem of the national economy and, in this sense, it is a missed opportunity, since, according to your forecasts, it was part of this group of scholars who had seen growths of 3, 1 % or up to 2, 4 % now presents to the national economy a completely anemic growth. But, Minister, I would like to tell you that I could solve the problem of financing companies and even strengthen own capital, which you will have to tell me where they are planned in the Budget. And I could even solve the problem of tax simplicity, but here, Minister, I'm sorry to tell you, the Minister has done more than that. This budget is the same as the previous one, maintains the entire tax burden and still increases it. This budget, in tourism, sector that you say is growing and being the lever of the economy, double increases the tax burden, of course, in local housing. Mr Minister may say that the increase in IMI does not affect the industry, but it may affect, Mr Minister, because the industry also has real estate for production and labor which is not exempt from this tax increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u547	If it is tender, it is free; if it is not tender, it is not free.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u548	But I can also tell you that the increases in IUC and fuel itself affect economic activity and businesses. And I can still tell you that the simple increase in rates and taxes, in which you became a specialist, also affects economic activity, because it increases the rates of registration and commercial registration and increases the registration of vehicles. Therefore, you will have to explain to us where in this budget there is a favourable climate for economic growth and businesses. You may say to me: "Well, but I have many things in the Capitalization program." Dir-CL-I look at the Capitalisation programme, which we tend to agree and we are waiting for Action No 20, which is then not in the Budget, which is to revise the investment support tax regime, extending the tax credit for investments above 5 million and undermining the granting of tax credit in terms of economy, in which the CDS will present proposals. I ask you, Minister, whether or not the Government has an opening in order to do something about this. But I can tell you, Minister, that all the other policies contained in your Capitalisation programme are not supported in the Budget, and that is what I think is serious. For example, as regards Action No 30 on strengthening the human and technological means of trade courts, the problem is identified by those who want to invest in Portugal and all companies, where is this same strengthening in the budget? It is all scheduled for after the fourth quarter, by 2017 or by the end of 2017. Mr Minister, perhaps the economy needed a minister who, even though discreet, should be effective, instead of presenting to us what supports his speech: "We are working, we are doing, for the year it is, for the year it will be..." Mr Minister, this is the second budget you have tabled, as I have said. And it was expectable, it was mandatory, it was desirable, with that model of increased income to families, of increased demand — looking for that which led to investment and economic growth — we did not reach the end of the second Budget worse than we were in 2015. That is the sign of its failure, of its political non-existence, is the sign that, in fact, you do not add anything to the Portuguese economy at all. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u549	To reply, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs, Manuel Caldeira Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u550	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer the order in which the questions have been asked. On the two issues raised by Mr Bruno Dias, in fact, the Budget supports micro and small enterprises, including in the interior, in particular the measures you have mentioned, and I think that the question raised on the special payment account is interesting for the debate in the specialty, where we will be open to many improvements. I believe that this should be one of the issues discussed here, because it is indeed an improvement for companies. With regard to energy billing, we have worked gradually, very slowly, in order to reduce some of these incomes and reduce prices. The price of natural gas fell this year 18 % for consumers and 22 % to 28 % for companies. It was an important downside that I want to sign here. We will also have an increase in the electricity price below inflation, something that has not been seen since 2006. And we are going to do this in a context where the tariff deficit is also reduced, which I think is important. But there is a lot of work that we have done and that we will continue to do. Mr Luís Testa talked about the PSD proposals. I would also like to reply to the question of the debate whether or not I am going to have access to it: if it is to make an open debate, talk about the past and talk about everything but the Budget, do not count on me! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I came to this plenary to talk about the Budget and it was about the measures of the Budget I spoke about. It was the measures of the Budget and of the Government's policy measures which are linked and which are in the Budget and which have already been implemented in the course of this year, and if you are the Members. Members of the CDS-PP did not have the pleasure of accompanying, it is unfortunate. As it is also unfortunate that you have not had time, or attention, to read the fiscal part of the Budget, because you would see that, in tourism, there is also a reduction in the VAT of the restoration which was greatly applauded by the sector. You will also see that many of the measures I have referred to, either from tax credit to investment or from the reduction of IRC to the interior, are included in the Budget, it is only to read, it is only to pay attention. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is necessary to pay attention to the question of the conventional remuneration of capital, which reduces the taxation on which companies capitalise, a very important measure, not only because of the support it gives to companies that want to invest, but also because of the correct incentives that give to an economy that is unfortunately overrun. I wanted to point out that he talked about growth, and he talked about growth over the next two years. The difference is that in 2015 if things started well, they ended badly — with growth in the second quarter being worse than in the first quarter, with growth in the third quarter being, in fact, anemic, a chain growth of 0, 1 % — and in 2016 we are having the opposite. And therefore all the talk that we are having less growth because there is less trust in this government falls to the ground when, in the second quarter of this year, we have already had better growth than in the first quarter and when in the third quarter we are going to have better growth than in the second quarter, which shows that the more companies know this government more confidence they are having. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What shows that consumers too, economic agents are also more confident and that is what they show both the INE and Banco de Portugal indicators. This government is working with companies, working on concrete programmes and integrated programmes. Mr. Hélder Amaral spoke here about the Capitalisation Programme. It is true that some measures have already been implemented, several measures are in this budget, but other measures of entrepreneurship will only be presented by the end of the year and will be implemented in the first half of next year. This budget provides for the entry of up to 400 officers to strengthen the courts and, therefore, this measure is also being implemented and may deserve more attention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u551	It's not in the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u552	This budget does for companies what has not been done in recent years and does for fiscal stability something that the party that has so often claimed as a party of taxpayers has not done. This is Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Now, in this Parliament, we have had the taxpayers' party to make the most brutal increase in taxes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today we have a fiscal stability budget, which reduces the tax burden for the second consecutive year... [[CDS-PP protests.]] That's what the CDS-PP should be applauding.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u553	I should support it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u554	That is what the CDS-PP should be able to read in the budget proposal and it has not succeeded, but it will understand throughout the year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u555	We have reached the end of this first day of debate. Tomorrow, at 10 a.m., we will continue with the budget debate. Before closing this debate, Ms Emília Santos will still be able to account for the file she has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u556	Mr President, I would like to announce that the draft resolutions Nos 533 / XIII ( 2 ) have entered and were admitted. ( a ) — Special Social Support Programme for the Third Island ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 539 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to London ( President of the HR ) and 540 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Commission of Inquiry on the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank ( Chairman of the HR ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-03.u557	The session is closed. [[It was 21 hours and 30 minutes.]]
