ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-30.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 30 minutes.]] As planned, I shall immediately suspend the session to receive His Majestys, the King and Queen of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare adjourned. [[It was 10 hours and 31 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, the session is reopened. [[It was 11 hours and 10 minutes.]] [[At this moment, the Republican National Guard Band, posted in the Lost Steps, executed the national hymns of Spain and Portugal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-30.u2	Majestades, Kings of Spain D. Felipe VI and D. Letizia, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Presidents of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ambassadors of Spain and Portugal and other Representatives of the Diplomatic Corps, Former President of the General Republic Ramalho Eanes, Other Civil Authorities, Policies and Military, Excellences, Ladies and gentlemen : It is an honour for the Assembly of the Republic to receive on a State visit His Majestys the Kings of Spain, D. Felipe VI and D. Letizia. The border which has antagonized our States in times is now a factor of approximation. Nothing that is happening in Spain is indifferent to us, nothing that is happening in Portugal is strange to you. It is with Spain that we have our only land borders. It is in Spain that is our main trading partner. They have never coexisted in our countries very different political regimes for a long time, such is the intensity of mutual influence. On the way to the 200 years of Portuguese parliamentaryism, we can recall the liberal inspiration of the 1812 Cadis Constitution. After 40 years of the democratic revolution of April, we can remember that here began a wave of democratization which soon arrived in Spain and then spread to Latin America and Eastern Europe. 30 years ago, Mário Soares and Felipe González signed the Treaty of Accession of the two countries to the then European Economic Community. There are even those who argue, not for any reason, that our European integration has, of course, represented the start of a strong integration of the Iberian economy. Spain is our main market: it represents a quarter of our exports and a third of our imports. I want here to appreciate the positive developments in direct investment between the two countries. From Spain came a great contribution to the huge increase that the tourism sector is having in Portugal, and there is certainly, as there has always been, life beyond the economy in relations between our countries. It is remarkable the path made in the field of scientific and cultural cooperation, as His Majestys have been able to prove at various times this visit to Portugal. I leave only as a paradigmatic example the Iberian Institute of Nanotechnology in Braga. They are therefore centuries of common paths; conflicting in the past, convergent in the present and certainly also in the future. The Portuguese Prime Minister was the first head of government to be received in the Moncloa Palace after the recent possession of the new government. There was an opportunity to highlight the excellent bilateral relations between Portugal and Spain. In fact, it is primarily at the multilateral level that our attention must be focused today, particularly on the challenges and threats that have arisen over Europe and the world. in these dimensions, regardless of the political colors of governments, our strategic interests are common and, as such, it is together that must be defended. in the European Union, in NATO, in the Council of Europe, in the Ibero-American Union, in the United Nations, union strengthens! We need more than ever strong and credible international organisations. The hope of our peoples is great in the mandate of the new Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, and Spain's active support for its candidacy was very important. Your Majestys, My Ladies and Gentlemen : 16 years ago, in this same Chamber, you have been speaking before the Members of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Juan Carlos. Sixteen years later is the time of His Majesty King D. Felipe, an acquaintance of this Assembly of the Republic, because, as Queen D. Letizia, he was here in the previous Legislation, in 2012 and 2014, and more recently on the occasion of the takeover of the President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. Sixteen years is not too long in the secular history of our countries, but these were in fact 16 years that changed our Europe and our world. Today we live in a completely different international strategic environment. Terrorism and cyberterrorism have gained a new global dimension. They proliferate the failed States, the civil wars, the human drama of refugees next to us, in our well-known Mediterranean. On the other hand, global warming has become an undeniable problem and an unacceptable priority. They are global problems that require a global response. They are common challenges that require more cooperation between States, starting with friendly States such as Portugal and Spain. It is time to prefer the optimism of wills and determination instead of embarking on pessimism and fatalism. Ladies and gentlemen: 16 years ago, economic and monetary union was still taking the first steps. The Iberian economies were adapting to the impact of enlargement of Europe to the east, trade openness to Asia and integration into the rules of the single currency, when they had the effect of the greatest financial crisis in the last 80 years. The European Union has responded late and insufficiently, allowing the financial crisis to turn into a sovereign debt crisis with very serious consequences on political, social and financial systems. The European Union's very insufficient response has left us impatient in the case of sanctions and very concerned in the case of refugees. We have been united in condemning the hypothesis of counterproductive and unjust sanctions in our countries. We have been and are supportive of the humanitarian cause of refugees. Portugal and Spain have the privilege of not having xenophobic parties with parliamentary representation. Nevertheless, we are still of the most favourable public opinion to the European construction project. We have the authority and the duty to fight together so that the European Union will again be the factor of peace and development that the world needs. It is in the great difficulties that the great projects claim. We believe that the best in Europe is still to come and that it depends on determination and will. Majestys, My Ladies and Gentlemen : The enemies of open society are again at the glance. Fear is now poisoning the relationship between States and also the functioning of democracies. With regard to fear, let us remember the wise words of Cervantes when 400 years have passed since his death: « One of the effects of fear is to disturb the senses and make things not look what they are». The international order of recent decades has largely settled on cosmopolitanism and multilateralism. Fear is today the driving force of protectionism, xenophobia and isolationism. We are facing the most serious challenge to the world born of the end of the Cold War. The best defense of this world will not be taken into account that everything is fine, because, as another great name of Spanish culture, Miguel de Unamuno, «the man lives by reason and survives dreams». It is about returning hope to people. Hope in a better life for each one, for our children and grandchildren. Combating social inequality, regulating globalization and restoring citizens' confidence in democracy must increasingly be the priorities of all democrats. The functioning of the European Union and the global economy does not result from any natural phenomenon, nor from any fatality. Its current configuration is not determined by any invisible hand, but by the choice of political, economic and financial powers and by the correlation of existing forces between them. We know how to put globalisation and the European Union at the service of people, without losing sight of the fact that isolation, protectionism, return to the borders of the past are not an option for those who seriously defend peace and prosperity. Your Majestys, My Ladies and Gentlemen : Portugal and Spain know well, for their historical experience, that it is the openness to the world and not the nationalist isolation that can bring us prosperity. Open society is by definition a society of inclusion and opportunities. Open society is by definition a transparent society in public service, where citizens are the owners of their destiny. Open society is a society that enriches itself with those who visit it or find work in it. It is the society of transparent power and where corruption is banned. It is the society of coexistence. Ortega Y Gasset, a great Spanish thinker, said that "Civilization is first and foremost a desire for coexistence", and in this sense it is even this idea of civilization that is at stake today. Majestys, My Ladies and Gentlemen : We know, therefore, as friendly countries that we are, modern example of healthy coexistence, identify what unites us, mobilize our people for these causes and thus combine the necessary forces so that relations between the different nations will turn out to be a better world. It is evident that the Portuguese have a great affection for you, Your Majesty, Mr. Filipe and Mr. Letizia. The relationship of the Portuguese Parliament with the Spanish Courts is also, and will continue to be exemplary. The historical consolidation of the friendship relationship between Portugal and Spain gives us unique conditions to walk as good brothers the challenging paths of the future. It is your word, Your Majesty, in this House of Democracy. [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-30.u3	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen. Members, former President of the Republic, Authorities, Ladies and gentlemen : First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank you for your warm welcome. I sincerely appreciate the cordiality with which I am opened the doors of this House. Through the threshold of the Assembly of the Republic with deep respect for your privilege. I come from an open heart to meet with the representatives of the dear people of Portugal, a land that I have always been present, that I have frequented since childhood and that I keep the best memories. I would like to share with you many and profound emotions that arouse in me your generous invitation today, having for the first time the opportunity to address me to those who embody the Portuguese Nation. From my grandfather, the Count of Barcelona, I inherited the invariable gratitude to the hospitality of the Portuguese people and the admiration for the Portuguese maritime tradition and its great navigators. From my father, King Juan Carlos, comes my love for the Portuguese language and the fraternal interest for the luck of Portugal. I remember the joy that they both conveyed to me when they saw how Spain and Portugal shared their new democratic life, their European project and their Ibero-American vocation, a feeling that continues to share with great conviction. That is why, Mr President, I am very grateful for your generous welcome and my gratitude for your hospitality. With the Queen, I also, in a very special and grateful way, keep the vivid image of a very fruitful journey in Lisbon, Porto and Guimarães and we look forward to the meetings and activities that this visit still has in store for us. All this, I'm sure, will always be in a very special place of our memory. In front of this House, I would like to solemnly thank the former President of the Republic, Prof. Dr. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, his invitation, his affection, his constant attention to the Queen and to my person, his sensitivity and friendship with Spain. Mrs. Members: If an old law orders to leave the world's concerns out of its own house, this rule is reversed in the house of national sovereignty. I know, at the same time, that it is a right and an obligation to bring to Parliament the concerns, initiatives and aspirations of citizens, in order, among all, through debate and agreement, the best possible response within the framework of the common good. in my case, few gestures are more grateful to me than those that allow me to associate myself with the ideas of duty and the search for the common good, which are those that incarnate all the people who occupy the seats in this chamber. I am also aware that nothing that interests your compatriots is foreign to you and, therefore, everything that concerns and enthusiasm fills your parliamentary tasks every day — of course, with a legitimate discrepancy — with the same will to succeed. We very likely agree that, as in a few moments of our history, the issues discussed in the parliaments of Portugal and Spain deal with similar issues. So, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, among these issues, I would like to stress what has to do with our place in the world and which both Portugal and Spain consider to be shared forces. Our first aspiration, like Spanish and Portuguese, is to continue to be and to build Europe vigorously. Europe is our cradle and our common destiny. Both countries celebrate this year of 2016 the thirtieth anniversary of our simultaneous accession to the then European Economic Community, after the recovery of the freedoms and approval of both Constitutions, the basis of our respective coexistence and harmony in democracy and freedom. The two countries then joined a European project of peace, reconciliation and fraternity, a project based on the pillars of democracy and human rights. Let us return to the ways — those of Europe — by which people, goods, services and capital circulate with the same freedom as within a Member State. Thanks precisely to this freedom, the magnitude of relations between the European partners and the data of bilateral relations between Portugal and Spain grow from year to year. For both countries, the incorporation into the European integration project has put in place one of the engines that have most promoted our economic progress and social development. With integration into Europe, both nations have contributed to our Community partners to appreciate the importance of closer ties with Ibero-America, the Portuguese-speaking African countries and some of the Far East, but at the same time close to peninsula history. Portugal and Spain maintain permanent contacts to defend frequently convergent positions and interests regarding the fulfilment of numerous Community policies. Iberian cooperation and fraternity serve us to advance our respective interests within the Union and to support ourselves in times of difficulty. The better Europe is, the better Portugal and Spain will be. The better they are Spain and Portugal, the better you will walk to Europe. Another of our mutual strengths lies in our Atlantic dimension, which unites us in NATO/NATO to 26 other countries with the aim of « safeguarding the freedom and security of its members ». The more free and safe the world is, the better Spain and Portugal will be. It also unites us with the United Nations. True to your Charter, and I quote, "we reaffirm faith in the fundamental rights of man, in the dignity and value of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of the great and small nations." from there our effort for solidarity. The longer and more general the dignity of the human being, the better they will be Portuguese and Spanish. I speak of the United Nations, which happily elected by acclamation—with the active and enthusiastic support of Spain from the Security Council—Eng.António Guterres as the new Secretary-General. This election certainly fell to the best candidate — and we celebrated it with « children’s eyes and the soul of portuguese», as our playwright Lope de Vega said to one of his Spanish characters – because he was elected both by his proven qualities, as well as because few people from any other country and Portugal contribute to the concert of nations with the historical and spiritual sensitivity that includes notes from the five continents. I am sure that your mandate in the United Nations will boost, with strength and conviction, the universal values that, in such a complex and uncertain world, it is increasingly necessary to defend, promote and secure. With the same will and commitment and the common link between shared history, Spain and Portugal, alongside the other countries of Ibero-America, they wanted to promote and strengthen political, economic and cultural ties. In 1991 we established the Ibero-American Conference, the highest expression of the Ibero-American Community of Nations, as an area in which the 22 countries agreed on the political will of their governments and brought our respective peoples closer together thanks to cultural and language affinities. Portuguese and Spanish know that the more prosperous Ibero-America, the more prosperous our common Iberian land will be. But they also wish, with their prosperity — and with the European — to contribute to the Ibero-America sister nations. This American dimension of our two countries, this force that unites us again with the Atlantic, leads me to talk about two other immense values of our nations that go beyond the American and European scope to extend throughout the Earth. I am referring to our language, Spanish and Portuguese, which we share with many other nations. As I had the opportunity to mention in my visit to Portugal only a few days after my proclamation as King of Spain, the similarity between our two major languages constitutes one of the fundamental foundations of our strength and our singularity. Thanks to this affinity, today we can recognize the existence of a large linguistic space composed of a thirty countries from all continents and more than 750 million people. This is a formidable space, of universal scope and projection, which we must not lose sight of in the increasingly globalized world of our day. thus, whenever Spanish and Portuguese become more universal, more universal become Portugal and Spain. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These places we share in the world sit in a fruitful, lively and continuous progress. It is the reality of solid bilateral relations, I would say unrivalled. Name them all, list the Spanish-Portuguese exchanges, would be to name the ocean: there is no part of public life or civil society that escapes this constant intensification, with full respect for their national identities and sovereignty. Year after year, starting in 1983, the summits between our two countries add new links. I would like to remind you of the latest: in the area of security and defence, we highlight the signing of the bilateral cooperation agreement and our active presence in the international coalition to fight against the terrorist organization Daesh. The tranquillity of the Portuguese and Spanish is due to the work, side by side, of our respective Armed Forces, Security Forces and Intelligence Services, in the fight against terrorism, crime and also against irregular immigration. Our mutual progress in economic matters is based on unparalleled values: Spain is the first partner of Portugal, which, in turn, as a trading partner of Spain, exceeds the whole of Ibero-America. They are growing realities as I mentioned yesterday at the meeting with entrepreneurs from our two countries, in Porto. in recent years, both Spain and Portugal have suffered an economic crisis that has seriously affected our citizens. At present, our economies have resumed growth and continued to work towards deepening bilateral economic relations is the best way to consolidate the recovery, job creation and sustainability of the social model we share. Spain and Portugal want to transform the Iberian Peninsula into a profitable alternative for Europe's energy supply. To this end, they guide the recent creation of an Iberian gas market and the dynamisation of the Iberian Electricity Market. hence our common commitment to improving energy interconnections with the rest of Europe. On the other hand, I am also sure that many of the Members here today know and promote a chapter of deep social and human dimension such as cross-border cooperation, exemplary on both sides of the line and that it will continue to deserve the commitment of our governments. Our two countries, pioneers in the unpublished maritime globalization of the 15th and 16th centuries, wish to collaborate more in the economy of the sea. An economy in sectors such as fisheries, transport, energy and tourism, to which the Portuguese and Spanish authorities pay particular attention, but also in other scientific areas or knowledge dedicated to the future of the sea and the oceans. in the noble task of giving the neighbouring country its own culture, collaborate with determination the prestigious Camões and Cervantes Institutes and other important initiatives and activities, such as the Show Spain and the Portuguese Exhibition, the Luso-Spanish Prize of Art and Culture or the benemerit Spanish College and Lisboa Giner de los Rios. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I came to this House, the seat of your sovereignty, as my father, King Juan Carlos, did, to reaffirm and renew the message of brotherhood between the peoples of Portugal and Spain. We must look with legitimate pride and concordance to the last four decades of democratic life. We must value our strengths shared in this global world. We must congratulate ourselves on the extraordinary vitality and richness of our mutual relations. Almost 500 years ago, with the impulse of the Crown, the Portuguese Fernão de Magalhães and the Spanish Juan Sebastián de Elcano began the company to return to the world together. They both opened up new horizons and reaffirmed our common confidence in the ability of human beings to overcome obstacles that are only seemingly inaccessible. Here, in front of this House, I express my conviction that Portugal and Spain will continue to walk together with the impulse of the feelings of affection and friendship that today as never before unite our citizens. They are feelings based on respect, mutual knowledge, on the recognition of our deep affinities in everything that we share and which goes far beyond neighbouring, because Spanish and Portuguese, Portuguese and Spanish, are linked by genuine ties of fraternity. Never in our long history have the two societies felt so close. For all this, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, today before you, before the Portuguese people, I want you to know that, as Spanish, as King of Spain, my heart is with Portugal! Thank you very much. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP ( standing) and PAN applauded, with the members of the CFP and the Greens standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-30.u4	I appreciate everyone's presence. We will again hear the national hymns of Spain and Portugal, and I declare the sitting closed. [[The Republican National Guard Band, posted in the Lost Steps, again executed the two national hymns.]] [[It was 11 hours and 45 minutes.]]
