ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start our plenary session today. [[It was 14 hours and 41 minutes.]] I ask the officials of the Authority to open the galleries. Before we begin today's agenda, I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, draft resolutions Nos 381 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the promotion of a national strategy for the ornamental plants and flowers sector ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 382 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Anticipates the day of payment of pensions for the social security system ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 383 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen and invest in the Hospital Santa Luzia de Elvas ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 384 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Morocco ( President of the HR ), which falls to 2. the Commission, and 385 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the suspension of contracts for prospecting, research, development and production of oil and gas in Algarve and Costa Alentejana ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u3	Let us then begin the single point of our agenda today, which consists of interpellation No 4/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — On combating food waste — from production to consumption ( The Greens ), in accordance with Article 227 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. The Minister for Agriculture and the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs have already been present. For an initial intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, hoping that the Portuguese Selection will not waste a game that will take place within a few hours, what the Greens are proposing is that we now discuss another type of waste, more specifically food waste. There are currently several global environmental challenges, such as the need to combat climate change or to reverse the sharp loss of biodiversity. To these various global environmental challenges there is an urgent need to add the fight against food waste. In fact, when we talk about food waste, we talk about food intended for consumption that has ended up being unused in quantity or quality. The intensive production of these foods implies the widespread use of natural resources and has significant environmental impacts, such as high water costs, soil saturation, loss of biodiversity, waste production, energy expenditure and greenhouse gas emissions. Consequently, it is clear that the use of food means the waste of natural resources that were used in vain to produce them. Reducing food waste is therefore contributing to saving the environment, with the awareness that nature has limits. According to the FAO ( Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ), one third of the foods that are produced worldwide are estimated to be lost throughout the entire food chain, from harvesting, processing, packaging, transport, storage and storage, distribution and sale to final consumption. These figures coincide with those of researchers who have concluded that the world's food waste margin is around 30 to 40 % of what is produced and, strictly speaking, the prospect is that we can reach the year 2025, less than 10 years, with world food losses about 50 % if the path of waste growth, which has been marked since the 1970s of the 20th century, remains. North America and Oceania are champions in world food waste, followed by Europe, which generates responsibility for these parts of the globe in relation to concrete actions and measures to combat this phenomenon. The absurdity is that FAO estimates that about 35% of the world's food waste was taken advantage of, made available and distributed, that there was no shortage or lack of access to food on the part of any human being, and yet 65 % of the food that ends up in waste, such is the waste order. This gives us a good view of the current hypocrisy in this world, because hunger is not due to the global food shortage. Therefore, it is important to be aware that consumption, trade and production standards need to be changed, so that a sustainable food system can be managed, that is to say, to ensure food security and nutrition for all, in the present generations, without compromising the environmental bases that generate food security and nutrition for future generations as well. This necessarily implies intra- and intergenerational solidarity. Clearly, this objective is not compatible with two antagonistic and unsustainable realities with which the world is facing today. On the one hand, intensive food production and consumption, washing machines, which far exceed basic needs and, on the other hand, hunger, undernutrition, inability to access food or important nutrients, with which a large percentage of the population is confronted. Thinking food waste is therefore something closely linked to the production and consumption processes that are sustainable and to a fair distribution of food and access to important nutrients, with decent living conditions of the populations, in particular with regard to the proper satisfaction of the most basic needs. In Portugal we do not know how much is wasted in food. There are no statistics that tell us of this reality other than the study Loss — Study and Reflection Project on Food Waste of 2012, which, as already mentioned by its coordinator, is not more than an estimate, at a time when the various food chain agents still had some difficulty in addressing issues related to food waste in their particular sector. This brings us to the first requirement that Portugal needs to study and investigate its level of food waste as strictly as possible. Knowing this reality is the most effective way to act on it. However, the country also needs a strategy, a program to combat food waste. The Food Waste Prevention Guide, signed between the Government and some food sector organizations in 2014, is nothing more than a compilation of important principles, but does not establish measures to achieve them or targets that guide the actions. It was precisely in order to correspond to the importance and urgency of the matter of combating food waste and to generate a proactive conduct that The Greens proposed to the Assembly of the Republic, in the past legislature, a draft resolution, which included a set of measures to be undertaken and which declared the year 2016 as the national year of combating food waste. This Greens legislative initiative was adopted unanimously and resulted in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 65 / 2015 of 17 June 2015. The Greens know that by the end of the year the problem of food waste will not be solved, as is clear. But what we cannot accept is that it comes at the end of the year with everything in it. The declaration of a national year for this matter does not aim to give it merely formal relevance, but rather to generate a lever to work on this food issue. Now, one year ago on the publication of the said Resolution, and taking into account that it determined 15 specific recommendations to the Government, whatever it is, The Greens felt that it was time to ask this Government to be accountable for its implementation and to help boost its effectiveness. This is one of the main objectives of this call made by the Greens on the parliamentary agenda. within the framework of Parliament's supervisory function on the Government, we want to know what it has already done or what it is planning to do to comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic proposing the fight against food waste and the promotion of efficient food management. It should also be recalled that in the context of the State budget for 2016, the Greens proposed a specific standard for the establishment of a national strategy to reduce food waste, which was approved. Also at the beginning of this June, the Greens held a public hearing here in Parliament, which brought together a wide range of interested entities, associations and citizens to discuss responses to combat food waste. It was a very relevant hearing, which demonstrated that society is fit and willing to engage in this issue. There are many actions planned, matured and others in practice, and there are conditions for a wide commitment of the most diverse agents. Moreover, no strategy will be effective in this area if the objectives and goals set do not have a strong active involvement of society in its definition and implementation. at one of the last conferences of leaders, The Greens also proposed that the next legislative session should establish a day of the parliamentary agenda devoted to the discussion of legislative initiatives on combating food waste. It has been a suggestion welcomed by Mr President and the other parliamentary groups, and the Greens believe that this session can contribute so that, in this national year of combating food waste, visible steps can be taken to meet the challenge that is also imposed on us. in this sense, The Greens are already planning a package of legislative initiatives which, among other issues, will focus on the following: first, the creation of a Simplex for the direct sale of food products by small producers. Accelerating this direct sale is a way of multiplying the proximity markets and generating short food marketing circuits, with great benefit for the preference and flow of local products. On the one hand, the fact is that long commercial circuits generate great waste in the various supply phases and we all know what it is to buy a calibrated apple one day and see it already rotted on the next day, to no longer count on the large quantities of perishable powders that are thrown out by the distributors because they are no longer in sales conditions after long transport. This is food waste. On the other hand, small agriculture is much more effective in harvesting than industrial production, leaving less food on the ground for harvesting, which means that we have less food losses. With the direct sale of the producer to the consumer, higher nutritional value is also guaranteed, since perishable foods are fresher and more durable. Secondly, the stimulus for the preference of bulk sales, so that only the necessary doses can be acquired for the family structure of the consumer. But because, in the days ahead, processed and pre-packaged food products are very sought after, it is essential to approximate the size of consumer packages. The truth is that since the consumer is dependent on what the market offers him, he is often obliged to buy packages with family doses, because there are no smaller ones, although he only uses the necessary amount, often going the rest to waste. The inadequate dimension of packaging is a factor in promoting extensive food waste. Third, the launch of a widely disseminated national campaign, similar to what was previously done with the separation of waste and its deposition in ecopoints, which has also translated into schools, in order to educate citizens to the importance of the substantial decrease in waste by the final consumer, revealing, in addition to others, two issues: the difference between "consuming before" and "preferably consuming" and, on the other hand, food preservation techniques after open packaging. We highlight these two issues because they are of the biggest food waste factors on the part of the final consumer. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us start the debate for now, allowing us to realize where we are, after the resolution adopted by the Assembly of the Republic, so that we can then define the steps to be taken on this path against food waste. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u5	Mrs Idália Serrão, Secretary of the Bureau, has already had the opportunity to inform the management of the benches that Mrs Heloísa Apolónia would exceed the time of her intervention, which will be discounted in the time of debate. But as probably not all the ladies and gentlemen. Members will have been informed of this, they are now aware of it. The Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development now speaks for one intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mr. Members : I would like to begin by congratulating the Green Group on this parliamentary initiative. It is a matter of great relevance and modernity, for which society has to be mobilized and political institutions have to find solutions translated into tangible results. There has never been so much food on the planet, and there has never been so much waste, at the same time as millions of people suffer from hunger and malnutrition. As the honourable Member has just mentioned, FAO estimates that one third of the food produced worldwide is wasted on the circuit between the producer and the consumer. This finding led to the fact that in September 2015 the United Nations General Assembly set the target of reducing the waste per capita by 50 % by 2030. In Europe alone, there will be about 100 million tonnes per year, which amounts to about EUR 143 billion. This represents about 170 kg per person per year, i.e. 20 % of the total food produced. At each table with five seats, the foods corresponding to one of them have the garbage as a destination. in our country, despite the difficulties and absence of a systematic collection of information, which is necessary to close, food waste will amount to 1 million t / year, a third of which immediately at the level of production, and so many others at the level of final consumption. It is not surprising that this issue has been increasingly occupied in recent years with the political agenda and the attention of social communication. The evidence and pre-eminence of the problem do not, however, have despite the increased debate and the launch of some worthy initiatives, allowing solutions with satisfactory results compatible with the dimension of the problem. Both FAO and OECD and the European Union have promoted a number of initiatives. In 2011 the Commission launched the road map for the efficient use of resources, and in 2014 it presented a communication by which it proposed the reduction target of 30 % up to 2025, followed by the creation of various committees and observatories and the holding of conferences, with emphasis on the 2015 Hague Conference. More recently, in December last year, the Commission presented a legislative package on the circular economy and an action plan aimed, in addition to calling on Member States to reduce food waste for each stage of the chain, the development of common methods and indicators, which do not exist, the creation of a platform that brings together Member States and all those involved in the food chain to define common measures and share new practices. The Commission also proposes that measures be taken to clarify European Union legislation on the subject and facilitate food donation and to examine the question of the period of validity of food goods. At the same time, several Member States, of which Italy, France, Denmark, Hungary and Greece stand out, have already announced the intention to legislate, or have already approved certain measures such as the obligation of large areas to provide certain types of food to those in need by compensating them, on the other hand, by reducing taxes or other standards, with a view to the use of food goods which, under normal conditions, would be intended for waste. Also in Portugal, good and various initiatives from the Assembly of the Republic, the Government, local authorities, or civil society, have been announced, or are under way, with greater or lesser success. I am referring, for example, to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, recently mentioned, which stated 2016 as the national year to combat food waste and made several recommendations to the Government, whose point of view I will have an opportunity to clarify during the debate, or to prevent food waste, promoted by the previous Government and subscribed by about ten and a half of public and private entities, containing a set of guiding principles and where the PRA-TØ is inserted, which aims to assign a seal for the recognition of good practices on waste prevention. Also many authorities, which Lisbon is an excellent example, have expressed concern and concrete initiatives, in order to minimize this problem that strikes us all. About 30 other Portuguese municipalities have subscribed to the Milan Pact and some of them have developed forms of cooperation with civil society, the author herself of other initiatives, internationally recognized as examples, such as Re-food, which involves about 4,000 volunteers in the collection and distribution of surplus food from restaurants and hotels, the Zero Waste Movement, or also the Fruta Feia cooperative, created to drain fruits that producers cannot place on the market and so many other good examples promoted by institutions of social solidarity, religious confessions or simple anonymous citizens. The opportunity for the subject is confirmed by the fact that a Council of Ministers for Agriculture of the European Union will take place in Luxembourg on Monday, where a number of proposals from the Dutch Presidency will be under discussion, which, in principle, have the support of Portugal, and which aim to remind the Member States and the Commission of the need for inclusion in their policy objectives and urge them to adopt common strategies and actions aimed at achieving the targets of reduction of waste already set. To achieve internally these concerns and objectives that we all share, I am sure that the Ministry of Agriculture has come to prepare and will shortly present for consideration in the Council of Ministers (and when I say briefly, it is until mid-August) a proposal, aiming at defining a national strategy, which includes legislative initiatives to set up a plan of action to combat food waste, articulating and enhancing all public and private resources and initiatives. I am sure that the Assembly of the Republic will make an important contribution to defining this strategy. I have recently heard Mrs Heloísa Apolónia present some concrete measures, and I can say from now on that the Government is available to welcome them and to work with Parliament in the implementation of the strategy and the formulation of the action plan that we want to implement at the beginning of September this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u7	To request clarification from Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, two Mrs were registered. Members, one from the PSD and one from the PCP. And, in order to ask for clarification from the Minister, three Mrs were registered. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has just informed the Bureau that he will answer the three Members together. Ladies and gentlemen. And Mrs Heloísa Apollonia...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u8	I would like to take the floor for an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u9	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u10	Madam President, does the Bureau have my registration to request clarification from the Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u11	No, you don't.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u12	But I thought, being my parliamentary group the interpelent, the inscription would be automatic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u13	But it's in time, Mrs. Deputy. It is only that questions will be addressed to the honourable Member first. And the first inscription for this purpose is Mr Joel Sá. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u14	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I begin by congratulating the Greens Ecological Party on the subject brought to debate and by declaring the importance of continuing to discuss this issue, which deserves this House clear guidelines and not just mere intentions of values. We will certainly all agree on the need to combat food waste. However, despite its awareness, man's individual and collective actions maintain high levels of waste, and the problem resists and persists. There are even estimates that point to its worsening as early as 2020. Data from 2012 and 2013 point to impressive values. It was estimated, in European and North American terms, that each inhabitant would waste, on average, 30 kg of food, corresponding to about 30 % to 50 % of waste in terms of edible food produced worldwide. In Portugal, the known calculations are smaller, but therefore not less serious. Studies in 2012 point out that, throughout the chain, food waste represents 17 % of annual food production, with an economic value of about 1 million tonnes. The current levels of food waste, more than an economic and environmental issue, are above all a moral and ethical issue. Moreover, the current volume of waste contributes to a strong pressure on resources and food prices, making it difficult to access them by the most disadvantaged. To combat food waste is therefore also to combat the problem of hunger and social inequalities in access to goods of first need, such as food goods. Lowering the volume of unused agricultural production will reduce the cost of food production and will contribute to maintaining the noble role of agriculture: efficiently feeding a world population, in strong growth. in the PSD, we have been aware of this issue for a long time and we have been addressing this issue in several forums since early. We therefore consider an extended debate to be useful in order to build appropriate, lasting and stable public policies to deal with the issue. Mrs President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, knowing that the fight against food waste also goes through the involvement of society, including the tertiary sector, which has carried out tireless work at the level of support for the needy and the distribution of non-consumer foods, at the level of restoration and distribution, I would like to understand the position of the Greens at this level. Secondly, would you like to know whether it agrees with the previous government's actions, in promoting and encouraging practices to prevent food waste by civil society, as is the example of the PRA-TØ? Thirdly, considering that this year is the year of combating food waste, on a proposal from the Greens, how does it assess the actions and initiatives under way, in particular the proposals and measures of the Government in this area? Are the 15 recommendations of this Parliament adopted in June 2015 being met? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u15	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia also decided to reply together to the requests for clarification by the two Members. Ladies and gentlemen. So Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u16	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate you on the subject that brings us here. We fully understand the question made by the Parliamentary Group of the Greens Ecological Party, given that, a year ago, it submitted to this House a draft resolution, which was unanimously approved and which gave rise to a Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, which the President said. Therefore, what your parliamentary group is doing now is realizing how far this resolution is being fulfilled, and the honourable Member has now put forward some concerns that demonstrate that the resolution is not being fulfilled, particularly in relation to studies. The honourable Member spoke in studies and, even recently, I had the opportunity to look for studies on food waste and I found that they are effectively very few, even though, in paragraph 2 of the Resolution, it was necessary to "promote rigorous and continuously updated surveys on the reality of food waste in Portugal". This shows that there is still a course to be taken on this matter. We, PCP, understand that, in terms of food waste, there is here the crossing of two perspectives: one, which is the perspective of the food guarantee, in our case, to the Portuguese; and another that has to do with the development, to the exhaustion, of the business component of food production. This happens in agricultural production, which I will talk about later on, but also in the context of consumer sales. The honourable Member spoke of a proposal which has to do with the sale of bulk, with the possibility of adequately selling products according to the needs of families, but the fact is that the distribution ends up promoting the sale of food products according to what their market strategies are, their economic strategies, and not according to what is the need for food for people who acquire these products. In view of the fact that this is a matter for the Greens, including in the context of other initiatives already put forward here, particularly the concern about the packaging and how the products were packaged to promote their sale, I wonder if you do not understand that there is a food value of the products which is subordinated to their economic value and which then has an exploitation, from the entities making their distribution and from production, which has little to do with their need to ensure adequate food for the populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u17	To answer the questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u18	Madam President, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions that have been raised and, in a very short way, tell Mr Joel Sá that he did not like to link the debate on food waste to an assistanceist logic. In fact, we know that everyone has their right to food, with the greatest possible dignity. As such, the ability and capacity of the person, through his work, to sustain and manage his life in the most basic needs is fundamental. Therefore, we did not like to link this debate to an assistanceist logic. However, it is clear that there are a number of strategies that can be found to ensure that food products that already exist, instead of going to waste, can be used, regardless of the economic condition of people, in a re-use or use of such products. And, not for human consumption, we can always hierarchy for animal consumption and, eventually, for other methods including energy production, composting, among others. That is to say, we have a set of methodologies to which we should hold on not to waste. But the fundamental question is to prevent it! Preventing the cause soon. That's fundamental! And the honourable Member says that the PSD is also very concerned. Mr President, they are very concerned, but they have done very little about it, we agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u19	But we did!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u20	Mr Ramos, in fact, as far as the Resolution is concerned, we must look at it in a serious way. It was approved by the Assembly of the Republic but, indeed, what is in everyone's eyes is that it is to be fulfilled! Therefore, one of the objectives of this debate is that we can also drive and speed up its implementation here. It is basically that push—if I may say it—that we would like to give to the government because the country benefits from it. With regard to packaging, he said very well that the Greens have already brought here a number of initiatives on this subject, namely, on the need to prevent, reducing packaging by a completely understandable environmental logic. Here, too, in this face of food waste, it is essential that the packaging be suitable for the various doses, i.e. that they are compatible with the structures and dimensions of the family. This is because one of the major waste factors is the fact that the consumer is forced to buy product in a family package, of which he uses a small part and then the preservation of the rest of the packaging is not done and everything will stop to waste. This is one of the most obvious and clear factors of food waste. Mr Ramos is also right about one thing: we often look at food only in a pure logic of its commercial value and we have to look at food in the logic of nutritional value. We must give other relevance to food, we must love food in another way, because that is the way we love nature as well and, consequently, human condition and humanity in the present and in the future. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u21	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start the Question Time with Mr Minister for Agriculture. The Greens, as an inter-parliamentary party, would have the prerogative to be the first to ask a question, but it informed the Bureau that it would deprive that prerogative. Mrs. Eloísa Apolónia asks for the floor to what end?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u22	Madam President, for an inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u23	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u24	Madam President, I did not give up on the possibility of asking a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u25	No, no, just to be the first to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u26	Very well, Madam President. As I have just spoken, I ask for clarification in accordance with the order of the other speakers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u27	All right, Mrs Deputy, that's how it was understood by the Bureau. Mr Ulisses Pereira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u28	Mr President, Minister, the topic of this afternoon's debate represents one of the greatest challenges of mankind. It is not too much to reaffirm that food waste is a social and moral constraint, and in economic terms it is totally irrational. Therefore, its fight seems to be generally consensual, theoretically, in the different benches. in the PSD, we understand that the global and cross-cutting dimension of the topic requires different approaches for which paths, strategies, and commitments that put society in the path of zero waste! We defend a pragmatic and effective path that passes, not only naturally but primarily by bringing consumption habits closer to local and regional productions, taking advantage of our surpluses in some products and involving the whole community. I would like to highlight two existing measures whose reinforcement, reformulation and enlargement are considered fundamental to us. First of all, the Community programme of school fruit. There are still few municipalities that have joined this free distribution program in schools. Its expansion to more schools, including more children and young people, has the advantage of promoting healthy and nutritious consumption habits—as is also the case with school milk—and at the same time constitutes a flow for local, regional or national fruit producers. It may contribute to an important flow or marketing of fruit with small calibres, the so-called ugly fruit, whose commercial valuation is almost zero, without the possibility of selling in the large distribution. In fact, this programme should even be redefined with the possibility of adaptation to the regions where schools enter, so that the fruit supplied is more than apples and pears, and can be extended to prunoids or citrus fruits, in the specific case of some regions of the country, such as Alentejo, Algarve and Trás-os-Montes. in this sense, I would like to ask the Government : Mr Minister, for when is the extension of the school fruit programme to the generality of national schools, protocoling with municipalities and what is the possibility of adapting the Community programme to Portugal, a country producing fruit par excellence? Second, the PARCA ( Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain ). The constitution of this platform was an example of a measure that specifically aims at greater equity in the trade relationship between producers and distributors. It has the merit of promoting transparency along the productive rows, contributing positively to the proper functioning of the market and to a lower level of waste. Whereas, this week, the Government boasted of the increase in the price of pigmeat in the context of the crisis office that was set up, I would ask the Minister if he planned to resume the work of the PARCA and intensify them in order to guide the flow of agricultural, local and regional productions, with a view to reducing food waste at the level of national agricultural production. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u29	As you have already informed, the Minister has chosen to answer two questions. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u30	Mr President, Minister, I have taken good note of the information that Mr Minister has given in the way the Government is already committed to building a programme to combat food waste. However, what I would like to say is that there is no programme or strategy that can be created, sustained and successful if it is not widely part of our society. And because of the hearing that the Greens have made here in Parliament, we are sure that the most diverse players in the most diverse sectors involved throughout the food chain are widely aware and willing to contribute to this objective of combating food waste. This was perfectly clear in this hearing that The Greens held. So what the Greens are proposing is not that a programme be carried out in a hurry, but rather that an absolutely participated, consensual, knowledge-based programme be carried out and that it therefore be much more effective. This is essentially what we want: effectiveness! And in that sense, I would like you to go a little further, saying how you intend to carry out this programme, and even you have a perspective on when that programme or strategy can be completed. Of course, I am speaking now by the Greens Parliamentary Group, and we are also very committed to participating in this. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you just one more quick question which has to do with the issue I have already mentioned of the proximity markets. I would like to know whether or not the Minister considers this to be a crucial issue for combating food waste and what measures he considers to be fundamental for this direct sale of the producer to the consumer, and how he believes that steps can be taken towards that realization. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u31	In reply, Mr Minister now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions. I would begin by replying immediately to Mr Ulisses Pereira on the issue of school fruit and milk. I would like to say that the Government is not only available to promote enlargement of these matters, as it has already done. This has already taken part in a decision in the Council of Ministers for Agriculture of the European Union, in February, I believe that there has been a decision extending the financial allocation allocated to Portugal. And, contrary to what has happened in the past, we are working to make full use of these funds, since, as you will unfortunately know last year, almost 70% of the funding for school fruit has been lost in schools. Therefore, we are not only taking steps to make full use of it, as we have also achieved in the European Union that all unused school fruit money can be used in school milk. This means that there will be no financial waste and we hope to acquire these products on the market. If it is not possible, for lack of agility of the authorities or for other reasons, to use these funds in school fruit in full, we can use them in school milk. But we are working to ensure that both programmes can be fully exploited. with regard to PARCA, an initiative that came from the previous government and which, as I have already had the opportunity to say in various circumstances, did not intend to change, but unfortunately, during the last seven months of 2015 the PARCA did not meet. I have already had the opportunity in this semester to reconvene a PARCA meeting and, in addition, to constitute the crisis office for the two sectors that have been working differently: PARCA is making another long-term and more serene reflection and the crisis office is focused on those two sectors, and in one of them everything indicates that the crisis is falling behind. This is because, even yesterday, I had information that, when this government came to power, the price of pork was about 1, 6 €, yesterday, it has already passed the 1, 70 € and I had up to some information that there are already transactions to 2 €. Therefore, being the expectations of producers, even a few months ago, that 1, 20 € was an ambitious goal, we are therefore far beyond it and for this much will have contributed the dialogue in the sector, either in the context of the crisis cabinet either in the context of PARCA. I think they were very serious dialogues, very expensive to face, for what other set of circumstances, like everything that involves the market, will also have contributed, but fortunately, from this point of view we are more calm. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I am very grateful for your question to which I am very pleased to answer. On 25 May, the Government published Portaria No 152 / 2016, which establishes the measure of short supply chains, has already contracted with the LAGs ( Local Action Groups ), who will make the management of this measure, the contracts that allow it to be implemented and at this point - this will now compete with the Local Action Groups - are open the candidatures for this measure which is very important and of which I would like to stress some aspects. Therefore, the objectives are to promote direct contact between the producer and the consumer, contributing to the flow of local production; to encourage less intensive and environmentally sustainable cultural practices, contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; to define who are the beneficiaries and what type of incentives, the amount of which may range from €5,000 to €200 000, with a substantial co-financing lost in the order of 50 %. These support is intended to create structures at local level, such as the storage, transport and acquisition of small sales structures, awareness-raising and education actions, which meet the resolution of the Assembly of the Republic adopted last year, the development of electronic platforms and other promotional materials, promotion and awareness-raising actions for proximity marketing. More: you can apply for natural or legal persons, local authorities, associations, farmers, provided there is no more than one intermediary in jail. The objective is precisely to promote the approach between the producer and the consumer at the local level, being defined as such. It is therefore a measure that is included in the financial package that has been distributed to LAGs which, as a whole, reaches EUR 200 million by 2020 and to which this measure is envisaged. at this moment, I can say with great satisfaction that it is already in full implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u33	Two more Members are registered to request clarification from the Minister. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u34	Mr President, Minister, mentioned to us some initiatives that the previous Government has implemented in the intervention. The initiative, which Mr PRA-TØ referred to, as he said, to distinguish individual entities or persons implementing good management policies and models and to contribute to sustainable development in a logic to combat food waste and social responsibility, contained, last year — the first year of implementation — 40 applications in five categories were awarded — the award was a stamp that allowed the PRA-TØ logo to be used — six stamps because in one of the categories there was an ex-equal premium. The winners were — I think it is worth referring to them for their relevance — the Food Bank against Hunger, the Re-Food, the University of Mininho, the University of Coimbra, the ITAU and the League of Friends of the Customs Center of Faith. The very concrete question is whether or not the Government will continue this PRA-TØ initiative, given that there is nothing on the initiative's website. A second question concerns a work which the former Government has requested from the Coordinator Council of Political Higher Institutes. The former government has commissioned a study—I do not know whether Mr. Minister can answer me, but remains alert—to the elaboration of programmatic contents for the advanced training of teachers of the 1. o is 2. the cycles, which have become validated by the Ministry of Education and Science to be introduced in the curriculum. My question is whether the Government will renew this commitment to raising awareness and civic training of young people in this field of food waste. Finally, he said that in September — I think it was decided in June at the Council of Ministers — the legislation on a national programme against food waste would be ready. I wonder whether this programme is the result of the second phase of the study that was previously carried out by the previous government, given that a study on the assessment and segmentation of food waste had been prepared that intended to define lines of action for the prevention of waste with a view to the approximation of waste to reuse, the results of which were disclosed in the final phase of the previous government. on the merits, I wonder whether the study that Mr Minister referred to is whether or not the continuity of this work. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u35	Mrs Carla Cruz from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, the discussion about food waste cannot be disconnected from a more comprehensive approach to food, access to quality food and its relationship with health. For many years we have known that the approach to eating, promoting healthy eating habits, as well as the relationship between food and health, should be made cross-sectionally and encompassing various levels of action: health, education and food production. According to the data published by the Directorate-General for Health, in the report Portugal — Healthy Food in Numbers 2015, « It is expected that a period marked by increasing inequalities in the distribution of income and high poverty rates will have a significant impact on the food consumption and health status of the Portuguese population, and may be compromised to guarantee food security for a large number of Portuguese family aggregates, i.e. ensuring access to food in sufficient, safe and nutritionally adequate quantities ». More: the report points out that "chronic diseases such as obesity, and possibly others associated with it, such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease or cancer have a distribution in the population very dependent on access to food of good nutritional quality". The above-mentioned report also states that « poor quality food affects children, the elderly and the socio-economically more vulnerable groups of our population(...) ». That is, children, young people and poor adults are those who have the most difficulties in accessing balanced, diversified, healthy food and quality products. in the various food studies, there is one aspect that is always mentioned and that concerns the self-supply of food in a country, and this is understood as, and I quote, « the capacity to satisfy the consumption needs of food in its population through its domestic production and / or the import of food financed by the corresponding exports ». According to INE data, Portugal remains incapable of being self-sufficient in various food goods, such as cereals, sugar, dried legumes and, on a smaller scale, meat. INE data also show that in 2014 there was an increase in the self-supply of certain food products, such as eggs and dairy and derived foods. Regarding food available for human consumption, the availability of cereals, fruits and roots and tubers increased in 2013 / 2014, compared to the years 2012 / 2013. Despite these increases, there are thousands of Portuguese, especially children, who cannot access and buy such food. And, on children, it is never too much to remember that there are many whose only balanced, diversified meal with access to quality foods they have is only in schools, because their families do not have the possibility to offer them this type of diversified food. Mr Minister, access to a healthy diet is essential for the prevention of disease development. Access to quality food is a determining factor for the prevention and development of these diseases. Mr Minister, knowing these associations, knowing how important it is to have access to quality, proximity food, how does the Government, in particular the Ministry of Agriculture, intend to intervene to improve not only access to food but also access to quality food in Portugal? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u37	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking you for your questions. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, on this subject, the initiatives coming from the previous Government are careful and taken into account and it is not our intention to change anything positive that has been done, like the PRA-TØ initiative, which she referred to, or the initiatives in the context of education which the previous Government has formulated but which unfortunately did not follow up. This is because the contacts I had with the Ministry of Education were that, at the beginning of the school year, the initiatives that were directed both to teachers and to students of 1. the cycle was not implemented. however, it is the intention of the current government to resume these initiatives and follow them up. In addition, a few days ago the Ministry of Education even took the initiative to penalize the parents of children who reserve meals in school canteens and then not use them, making these meals go to waste. This is to say that both the studies that are available in the Ministry of Agriculture that have been initiated even if not completed, or initiatives considered positive formulated and not implemented, or those that are being implemented, such as the PRA-TØ initiative, which, as I said, we intend to follow up, our intention is to integrate them into the strategy and action plan for combating waste that we are going to implement. As I have already said, we are making a survey on the possible need to create new legislation or to promote changes to existing legislation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we want to support positive initiatives, give them continuity and go as far as possible in the formulation of the strategy and in drawing up a plan which, as I have already said, we want him to be as involved as possible. We will define a period for a public discussion and, of course, fruitful with Parliament. Mrs Carla Cruz spoke in order to guarantee food safety — security in this case in the dual sense, that is, to have access to and, having access, to be in good condition of hygiene and health. Of course, this part is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and, from this point of view, services are equipped, operate with recognised competence and Portugal — but also the whole of Europe — is certainly the places in the world where there is better guarantee and security in the food we consume. Often, the detection of some crises only proves that the system is geared to detect them and therefore there is a need to prevent them, more than to fight them. with regard to the very important issue that you have put, that of self-supply, the objective of this Government is that, at the maximum of five years, by 2020 / 2021, to ensure the balance of our agricultural trade balance in value. What does this mean? That the value of exports is equivalent to the value of imports of agricultural products. The data we have over the last few years show us a path in which we think it is possible to achieve this objective within the horizon of four or five years. Moreover, the gap that we now have to fill does not reach the EUR 4 billion and the pace of both the growth of production and exports give us the basis of expectations that this objective is fully attainable. It is clear that we will never be self-sufficient in everything, there is no country in the world—not even those with a continental scale, such as Russia, the United States, Canada, Brazil — that can produce 100 %. Of course, the objective is that we achieve self-supply as high as possible in the largest number of products. Fortunately, we have managed to be self-sufficient in oil, wine, birds and eggs, milk. In relation to other products, we have degrees of dependence, the worst of which is indeed that of cereals, because there are no conditions in Portugal to produce cereals competitively, except with the inclusion of the regadio and, as you know, the areas of regadio, despite the efforts to increase, are very small in relation to the needs of the country. But we're working on it. Export data, in the first quarter of this year, are impressive in terms of, for example, red fruits. No one would imagine that we had reached EUR 90 million in exports or no one would imagine, for example, that fruit and vegetables had exceeded the wine in terms of export. Therefore, we are in a very positive path to achieve this balance on a horizon that, we think, will go little further than the end of this legislature. at the end of the Legislature, perhaps we can make a balance sheet and verify that, for the first, Portugal, perhaps in many centuries, has a fully balanced agricultural balance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u39	Let's move on to the intervention period. Mr. Carlos Matias of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u40	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members : To focus today's debate on waste and loss of food, without going to their real causes, can lead us to ignore the essential debate on the right to adequate food and the right of small farmers to a decent life, with incomes at the level of workers in other sectors, in harmony with the territories on a basis of respect for the environment and biodiversity. According to FAO data, 2013 data, the amount of food wasted annually is 1300 million tonnes. This megawaste not only causes major economic losses but also has a significant impact on natural resources on which humanity depends to feed. About a third of the production is wasted or lost. However, this value is not uniform in the various regions of the world. in Europe and Latin America the amount of food wasted or lost is 95 kg to 115 kg per year and per capita; in sub-Saharan Africa it is 6 kg to 11 kg per year and per person. But another look is required to understand the difference between the so-called developed regions of Europe and North America and the less developed regions, particularly sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America and South-East Asia. Waste and loss, although much smaller in absolute value, are much higher in relative value. in these regions of the world, where poorer agriculture is located and where poverty is greater loss and waste is much greater in relative value than in Europe and North America. For example, in Sub-Saharan Africa production per capita / year is about 150 kg of food / year of which there is only one consumption of 25 kg / per capita / year. in Europe, for a per capita / year of 175 kg, there is a consumption of 100 kg / per capita / year. The enormous weight of waste and losses in the different regions of the world results essentially from productive systems, different market organizations, although consumption habits can also have, and have, some influence. Difficulties in the organization of production, processing, storage, conservation and transport are pointed out by FAO as causes of waste and losses in the less developed regions. The waste of food in the richest societies results in a combination of consumer behaviour—and we all know how important consumer behaviour is—and the lack of communication throughout the supply chain. Without neglecting the attention that should be paid to the search for new food systems that promote responsible and healthy consumption habits, it is up to us to focus our discussion. Focusing the speech only on waste and loss of food can divert us from a systemic approach to food issues, which allows us to solve problems in an integrated way and « cut off evil from the root ». First, we assume that healthy food is a human right. Then we assume that the best way to achieve is to defend security and food sovereignty for all the peoples of the world. Finally, we add the need to base food production on environmentally and biodiversity-friendly productive systems. in these circumstances, we can still bear in mind that world food is controlled by half a dozen multinational companies, which also, at food level, are hostage to the great interests of financial capital. Promoting responsible and healthy food regimes, combating waste and loss of food products means freeing the production and trade of food products from large multinational companies, from the interests of financial capital. It involves policies that promote a fair distribution of the food produced and access of all people to adequate food. By transposing this analysis to our country, we also live here at two speeds: rich and productive regions and farms, competitive in the international market, live in pairs of small regions and micro-explorations, where farmers survive at very cost and just it would be to pay them for managing the territory. Rich people who can produce waste—and produce them, and much! — lives alongside poor and very poor people, in small farms that accumulate losses because they do not reach the market. BE has long addressed its concerns to this universe of small and very small farms that occupy the vast majority of rural territory in the interior and north of the country. Here it happens, but here it does not reach the market. It is also necessary to quantify products, often of great quality, which are lost or are intended for animal feed on their own farm because there is no marketing network adapted to these holdings. For example, in the Algarve and Ribatejo — which is my own region and which I therefore know well — have been buried tons and tons of good orange, produced in small orchards whose owners have failed to place them on the market. And sometimes fishermen return fish to the sea, so low are the prices they pay them. All this is a huge waste, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Some initiatives are beginning to exist on the part of some municipalities to overcome these strangulations, but they are still very shy and unconsequent. There is an urgent need for a strong bet on short agricultural product marketing circuits, for local products to be given preference in the supply of public canteens, and for this reason it is necessary to create or find supply-concentration structures. It therefore seems to us that all steps are positive, as has now been announced by the Minister, who are going to do so. Being such a sprayed offer, it will do nothing to force the public canteens to consume local products if we do not work for the organization and concentration of the supply. In addition to this, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, it is urgent to regulate the relationship between large distribution chains and production, in order to promote fair distribution of value added throughout the value chain and to ensure short payment deadlines, compensators for producers and often the guarantee of their own survival. The atomization of production cannot continue to allow the dictatorship of the large distribution, continually crushing margins and imposing draconian conditions to which it produces. It is also urgent to set up measures to support investment in small family farming. in the RDP 2020 there is no single measure adapted to these types of holdings, even the measure for short chains and local markets is not addressed primarily to producers, as is the case in other European countries. A new food system is needed based on an integrated territorial model, rooted in the characteristics of each territory, in synergy with nature conservation, tourism and education. A food system that enhances the specific resources of each site and the proximity relationships, a food system that promotes short distances between production and consumption and diets based on fresh products. The Left Block has had proposals for this path and remains committed to continuing. The Left Block is still proposing to work towards the creation of a basic law on food and nutrition security that transposes the human right to adequate food to the national legal system, which Portugal has already made internationally. And to create the necessary mechanisms for the coordination of public policies in agriculture, the environment, health, education, the economy and social security sectors within the framework of a national strategy and local strategies for food and nutrition security, with objectives, targets and budget allocation. Good food, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a human right, but it is also better health, better citizenship and, what is not discarding, more savings in public accounts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u41	For an intervention, Mr Minister for Agriculture has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u42	Mr President, Mr Matias, it was not my intention to intervene, but I felt obliged to do so because, generally agreeing with your statement, Mr Matias said, if I understood correctly, that there are no specific measures in the RDP aimed at small agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u43	Family!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u44	... to small family farming, and I want to tell you what there is. Fortunately, they exist and are recorded in the port of call (repea, Portaria n. 152 / 2016, of 25 May ), which establishes that small farmers, and what is clearly defined in the port of call, will benefit from the investment in small holdings, and may present candidature projects up to EUR 50 000, to a maximum of two projects, and the largest may not exceed 40 000, with 50 % in depth lost. There is also support for small producers in the processing and marketing of agricultural products, such as a small sausage shop, a cheese shop, investments which provide support to 50 % in depth lost up to the eligible maximum amount of EUR 200 000. All these measures are recorded and are already in perfect execution since May 25. It was also the subject of the Government's programme that I am pleased to say from that point of view is fully fulfilled. We now hope that the execution will match our expectations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u45	Mr Nuno Serra has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u46	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. Members: I begin by congratulating the Greens Ecological Party on bringing this issue back to debate, saying that food waste and the forms of global reduction will certainly be one of the greatest challenges the world will face in the future, but today it is also a matter that many of us are facing. This challenge is the greater the need to feed an accelerated growing population, to achieve a more productive agriculture, which meets the needs of world consumption, a more sustainable environmental policy and a more equitable social policy. This concern should involve society as a whole, seeking, with innovation, to reduce this contradiction, which is to produce food that never gets consumed or reused. Today, it is imperative that the concept of the circular economy be a model to be implemented, in which the reuse of waste becomes an economic factor of production and reuse and not a waste of endogenous resources. It is not possible to continue using scarce natural resources, such as water or soil, to produce something that will be wasted. It is not acceptable that the needs of many families and institutions do not coincide with food waste, estimated today at 1 million tonnes, in the Portuguese case. There are currently many worthy civil society initiatives that act in this area and have mitigated this scourge. However, as has already been said, there is still much to do, much to promote and much to develop. For PSD, the fight against food waste should begin in production and go to domestic consumption, through distribution and marketing. Estimates of the study project PERDA ( Study and Reflection Project on Food Waste, 2012 ) say that it is in the production and consumption where the losses are higher, about 32 % and 31 % respectively, and that in the distribution of the waste level is 290 000 t, i.e. about 28 %. In view of these values, it seems to us that, without prejudice to the initiatives that can be implemented in Portugal and that already exist in some European countries, in the marketing and distribution phases, we must have greater attention and objectivity in production and consumption. It is becoming increasingly clear that promoting the consumption of national products is an unequivocal way of reducing food waste. Encourage public policies to frame the reality of national agricultural production, combating inadequate and totally disconnected projects in the way food is produced, some even promoting the import of substitute goods to our endogenous products, must be a priority. We cannot deny the importance of incentives and incentives between associations of producers, cooperatives and IPSS so that national products can be disposed of, which often fail to reach the distribution channels but must reach the population. It is in this context that the PSD is positioned, recognizing, on the one hand, agriculture with a fundamental and first-line role in the fight against food waste, defending measures that harmonize consumer demand with the supply of the sector. This is an example of the need for labelling of products regarding their composition and origin. On the other hand, we also recognize the added importance that marketing and distribution can have in the defence, flow and enhancement of national production, promoting consumption of our products, reducing surpluses and, consequently, reducing waste. The question of food waste is increasingly a paradox of modern times. The more quality, the more food security is implemented in European food systems, the greater is the level of waste and loss. The more demanding is the consumer, the more likely there will be to waste healthy foods whose appearance often does not meet certain marketing or marketing requirements. Stimulating proximity markets can be an important opportunity to fight this paradox. It may not only benefit the flow of regional products, as it may bring consumers and producers closer together. On the other hand, it is crucial to undertake more actions at the level of education, communication, awareness, responsibility and regulation, agility and recognition, many of which are already promoted by civil society and by many institutions of social solidarity. in fact, when we see that more than 1/3 of waste is in our homes we realize that solutions have to go through a change in consumption habits and a practical awareness about what we are wasting. Therefore, the PSD welcomes all initiatives that promote consumer awareness in the storage of products, in terms of validity and loss of food. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all agree on the size of the problem and on the need to find solutions to it. It is easy to converge on the urgency of reducing food waste. It is difficult to guide options that achieve it and bear in mind in our conscience, whenever we present here initiatives, that this is the way. It is not enough to guide speeches on the problem and scourge that is food waste on one day, and on the other day, to defend techniques and practices that call into question national production and create more surpluses, which distance consumers from our traditional products, which hinder the competitiveness of national agricultural productions from other countries. The PSD agrees with the campaign the Greens presented here, but we can still go further. We are also available to set up a working group to follow the measures that the Government is planning to implement so that the debate in this Parliament is extended and so that we can turn to reality many measures that are already in place. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u47	For an intervention, Mrs Júlia Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I congratulate, first of all, the Greens on the agenda of this issue. The Assembly of the Republic declared the year 2016 as the national year of combating food waste. This resolution recommended, among other measures, that rigorous and systematic surveys be promoted on the reality of food waste in Portugal, as well as the creation of a national programme constructed in an active and collaborative process of society. Has this resolution, adopted more than a year ago, and even unanimously, been taken seriously? I mean, has it been fulfilled? Or, on the contrary, has it been ignored? Did the Assembly of the Republic and the political forces reassure the conscience? Yeah, but it was just, nothing else. However, legislative initiatives should be, where possible, studied and developed with the hearing of stakeholders, examined real successful cases — some with long experience — analyzed scientific studies and dissected all the individual and collective contributions of all representative organisations. If this is done, the initiatives will be consistent, substantiated, assumed and, as I said before, to take seriously! That is what the PS did, a few days ago, on the subject proposed in this debate: food waste. We met in public hearing on 14 June, participants from the entire food chain. The debate, much attended, with the presence of researchers, project promoters, authorships, associations and representative organizations, revolved around the perspectives of food safety and sustainability, the environmental issue and the motivations of social charis. The present and written contributions were crucial to support and strengthen our political intervention in this area. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, food waste is currently a global problem. in the European Union waste framework directive, the waste treatment hierarchy gives priority to waste reduction in source, followed by reuse, recycling and recovery, with disposal as last resort. This cross-cutting and comprehensive theme includes areas as diverse as social solidarity, the environment, health, economics and finance, agriculture and food security. It therefore demands the awareness of all stakeholders, from agricultural production to agro-industry, distribution, restoration to the final consumer. An integrated and articulated action is needed throughout the food chain, which simultaneously includes concerns at the educational, health and poverty reduction level. Strategies should involve awareness, training and information, promoting campaigns, but also monitoring waste and improving logistics. in this context, it is appropriate to mention the importance of short supply chains, already mentioned here, whose proximity circuits avoid food waste. It is important to ensure that these short chains are more frequent, for example, in public canteens, schools or hospitals. As everyone knows, the number of deprived people seeking food assistance from institutions of social solidarity increased exponentially in Portugal, as the result of blind structural cuts policies of the former PSD / CDS-PP government. A scenario of social deficiency is opposed to the sad reality of daily waste of food surpluses produced by the public and private sectors and by individuals. This situation thus escapes the most basic principles of economic rationality. The need to organize, structure, encourage and regulate food waste in Portugal is an obligation for everyone. It is also necessary to ensure that the targets set by the European Union are met, such as the reduction in food waste by 50 % by 2025. The proposed legislative initiative should integrate all aspects of food waste. It should encourage the adoption of good practices against waste and counter-criminalisation and fine systems for stakeholders. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, food waste is a matter of a multidisciplinary nature. We therefore suggest the constitution, under the direct management of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, of a national committee to combat food waste, like the existing one, and with great success, in the city of Lisbon, to promote the diagnosis of the problem and to determine concrete measures to combat food waste. This committee should integrate strategic public health objectives, school education, poverty reduction, food security and good practices to combat food waste in production, industry, food distribution and final consumer. in this area is determining a public policy strategy to achieve significant integrative improvements of different perspectives, a strategy that involves, since its genesis, all actors, an integrated strategy taken up by all and for all. This plenary session should therefore serve for the union of efforts around a goal of Portugal, Europe and the world: combating food waste. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u49	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record the registration of Mrs Fatima Ramos to request clarification, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State, I begin by congratulating all. PSD is a humanist party that defends good management of resources, both human and material. It is a party that believes that only with good resource management, with strict management, can people live better. It is a party that defends, therefore, the fight against inequalities, the fight against asymmetries. [[PS protests.]] It is a party that was obliged to implement certain difficult measures by which it was still criticized by the Member of the Socialist Party... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u51	...because, unfortunately, he inherited a country where, in fact, rigour and demand did not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u52	PSD is a show!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u53	Therefore, what we fear most at this time is that this rigour and the demand for it ceases to exist and we have seen that there have already been some measures in this regard. The PSD is, in fact, a party that, in this way, is concerned with efficiency and good management of resources and, therefore, when we talk about food waste, we could no longer agree. For this reason, both in our electoral programme and in the coalition programme, this was always a matter that was present, contrary to other parties who often talk about it but did not have it in mind. It is indeed a matter of the future, on which we must look. We live in a country with so little resources and we know that 17 % of production is waste, and this is a reality that we have to invest. But, aware of this reality, I remember here that, in the time of the previous government was prepared a work called Food Waste Prevention — A commitment of all, which involved 25 partners, public, private entities, the Ministries of Economics, Agriculture, Health, Local Authorities, Mercy, the CAP and many others,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u54	Etc...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u55	... because the PSD did not defend a statisticizing society but that the involvement of all could bring measures that, in fact, were transversal and were successful for all. in the context of this work, several measures have emerged: to monitor the reduction of food waste and improve the sustainability of the food chain; to encourage the creation of proximity markets; to analyse the possibility of purchasing food goods from local production and local markets, through the flexibility of public procurement rules, always taking into account food security; to favour, at the level of public contracts, companies with social responsibility and good practices to combat waste implemented, preserving food security; to evaluate the possibility of implementing tax and / or economic incentives directed at food donation; to stimulate or distinguish distribution agents who present, by product range, levels of marketing of national products above 2/3; to create an invitation to identify best practices in the prevention of food waste throughout all stages of the process; to create a food waste prevention stamp that can be identified by the entity's stakeholders...'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u56	It must be over by now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u57	I therefore ask the Socialist Party how it has helped its government, which is already seven months ago, to implement these measures. I think it's time to go to practice and do. It's actually time for realisation. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] We're available to collaborate. A draft resolution was submitted and approved in 2015 which had these same proposals, many of which, today, Mrs. What I ask you to do is, as a social-democrat and as a citizen, that you actually turn from conversation to practice and that you cooperate. [[PS protests.]] We are available to cooperate, to manage rigorously, efficiently, by having the notion of what the country needs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u58	In reply, Mrs. Júlia Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in response to your request for clarification, I would like to tell you that rigour and transparency are also the concerns of the PS. The reference I made to the previous government was indeed the increase in poverty and the inability to solve the problem of poverty in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you know, the assistance of the IPSS has been, with strict and transparent, fundamental to the support of the most needy and the PS is concerned about the way we treat people, to give dignity to the lives of workers, our fellow citizens. It is unfortunate that there has been a waste of time here asking what measures these are. It is that the measures contained in the Prevention of Food Waste — A Commitment of All were taken as minor measures in a written document, which is important, with good reference to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, but lack of its operationalization, lack of going to the ground and get all the agents involved, all the actors involved, to succeed in carrying out the fight against food waste. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u60	Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the Parliamentary Group of the Greens, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, we live not only in a consumer society, but also in a waste society. And regardless of what we can do about whether waste is a direct consequence of the consumer society, it is important to work towards combating this worrying phenomenon of food waste. I recall in this connection that in its Resolution of 19 January 2011 the European Parliament is concerned that, daily, a considerable amount of food, even if perfectly consumable, is treated as a waste. in the same document, the European Parliament considers that food waste represents an environmental and ethical problem with economic and social costs, and invites the European Commission to consider the reasons for dropping out, wasting and depositing annually on European landfills about 50 % of the food produced. This is, therefore, a fight that is required, not only by the absolutely useless exploitation of the natural resources that waste requires or implies, and which could be saved, but also by the unfortunate observation that millions of tons of food are wasted annually in a world where one sixth of the population is starving. Therefore, they are not only environmental issues, given the unnecessarily pressure on natural resources, but also intergenerational issues. That is, what we're talking about, when we talk about food waste, is a problem of sustainability. That is why this matter has come to be of greatest importance to the Greens either through the presentation of legislative initiatives or through initiatives of a different nature, such as the parliamentary public hearing on proposals and strategies to combat food waste, which the Greens have promoted in this House at the beginning of June. It was a very involved and very interesting initiative, even because food waste, although it has been the subject of several studies in other countries, Portugal has not received much attention and only recently began to appear projects having as a common denominator, exactly, food waste. As for studies, the only one that exists so far in our country was prepared by the Lost — Project of Study and Reflection on Food Waste, designated from the field to the fork, food waste in Portugal. But at the parliamentary hearing that the Greens have promoted us - experiences and actions in the field carried out by several associations, namely: by IN LOCO, which together with some authorities, municipalities and Freguesias, and involving local schools and agents, seeks to create a methodology for the traceability of food waste at local level; by DECO, which, in the area of consumer education, has to carry out a project with several schools, challenging young people to create revenue inserted in the fight against food waste; by the Re-food movement, a movement that aims to contribute to eliminating food waste, ending hunger and including the entire community in this effort; and by OICOS, with their project Integrating to Food — Knowledge, Health and Sustainability and the General Framework for Urban Food Policy, which aims to provide strategic options to cities or municipalities that intend to implement or develop more healthy food systems on food relations with Mil. As for the studies, as I have just mentioned, the only exclusively national study on food waste is the Lost — Project of Studies and Reflection on Food Waste. The methodology of this study was adapted from the FAO study and the estimated annual capital of food losses and waste in Portugal points to 97 kg per capita / year, of which 31 % come from consumers. Therefore, we are talking about estimates that, in saying the authors themselves of the study, can be described as rude due to the widespread use of merely approximate data. Still, and even as estimates, we know that food waste is very high and, for economic reasons, whether for environmental or even moral reasons, its fight must be faced with an imperative. We also know that food waste is a complex phenomenon, which crosses all stages of food from its production to final consumption. And we also know that the trend towards extending chains, increasingly moving away from the consumer producer, makes the problem worse. That is why 'local consumption' must also be seen as one of the priorities of policies that design our collective destinations. Traditional markets, proximity markets, local markets must be valued and reborn, to the detriment of large commercial areas. in the same way, it is necessary to bet on short food marketing circuits in order to value family farming, benefiting from support that ultimately generates benefits for good and desirable food management. That is also why the aspirations and needs of those who produce, distribute and consume food must be at the heart of agricultural, food and commercial policies, and that is why public policies are required to safeguard the right to adequate food and nutrition and promote food and nutrition in a sovereign way. Efforts and courage are needed to combat a number of European rules that have boosted food waste, especially when we talk about fruit and vegetables and their European requirements to have a certain size in order to be put on sale. It is necessary to look at the packaging of food products that are so often, and without realizing why, are presented with an absolutely disproportionate format to the different dimensions of the family aggregate and are never thought to be able to contribute to the fight against food waste. Finally, efforts are needed to change consumption habits, and awareness-raising and information campaigns are decisive instruments in this area. Awareness campaigns to raise awareness about food waste to economic operators and also to consumers, campaigns with presence in schools, with challenges for the creation of initiatives around the need to combat food waste. There is, therefore, much to be done in this area. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this fight, who seeks or wishes to affirm the principle of sustainability, both production models and consumption patterns gain absolutely decisive relevance. It's one of them that matters to reverse. If from an environmental point of view it is unqualifiable that natural resources are disposed of to produce food goods that then end up in the landfills, from a social point of view it is also dramatic that food that could be channeled to contribute to meeting basic food needs of a significant part of the population is wasted. For all this, serious actions and active involvement by the State are required to materialize strategies to substantially reduce food loss in our country and in different phases, from production to food consumption. It is crucial and decisive for the Government to look at the resolution adopted by the Greens in this House, in fact unanimously, and to take a look at each other and take the commitment to be involved in the materialization of the 15 points of this important resolution on food waste. Looking at this resolution with an eye to see will mean that we will be on the right track. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u62	Mr José Luís Ferreira has a request for clarification from Mr Mauricio Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group to whom I give the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u63	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: Given the short time I have, it was only to greet the Greens Ecological Party for this initiative. in fact, preventing food waste is to reduce hunger in the world and this should not be just a national design but, yes, a global design.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u64	The honourable Member has already exceeded his time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u65	This must be a subject which should unite us all and not divide and therefore I also appeal here to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u66	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u67	This is an issue where much of the waste in production is local and therefore the Minister has an opportunity here to promote local production and consumption through the many institutions that we have scattered throughout the national territory. Welcome to the Greens Ecological Party for this initiative. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President. — To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u68	Mr President, it is only to tell Mr Mauricio Marques that we appreciate the PSD's appreciation of this initiative, saying that it is also important that the parties have this concern about food waste and also about combating poverty not only when they are in opposition but always, whether they are in power or when they are in opposition. In any case, we have recorded what has been said about the initiative that The Greens brought to the discussion today. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u69	Mr Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u70	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: Improving the living conditions of populations in the western world has changed consumption habits, often leading to surpluses that are not subsequently taken advantage of, as has already been mentioned here. For this reason, it is the most developed countries that generate more food waste, which, according to FAO data, correspond to about 1/3 of the food produced annually. In Portugal, as has already been mentioned here, this value is estimated to reach about 1 million tonnes of food per year. Paradoxically, one sixth of the world's population still starves. On the other hand, FAO estimates that in 2050 the world population will rise to 9 billion people. This demographic growth will certainly lead to an increase in food production, but it also leads us to rethink the paradigm of sustainability, whether environmental, economic or social, which necessarily forces us to reduce food waste. It is therefore essential to adopt policies and behaviours which, together with greater social equity, reduce the costs of food waste, not only economic but also environmental. in this sense, I greet The Greens for having once again brought this issue to debate in this House. Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: In 2012, the Perda project, already mentioned several times, estimated that losses in Portugal are distributed, as Mr Nuno Serra also mentioned in a relatively equitable manner by production, distribution and families, being about 30 % in each of these phases of the chain, and less proportion by the industry ( 7, 5 % ). These values are slightly different from those of the European average but also worrying and motivating for reflection with a view to promoting public policies that contribute to the reduction of food waste. in the case of production, and much of the industry as well, we can easily turn these losses into resources, reusing them into a circular economic logic, such as organic fertilizer or sending them to animal feed. The same cannot be said of the losses caused in the remaining phases of the food chain. For this reason, we understand that, in order to minimize losses in families and in distribution, information, awareness-raising and cooperation among citizens, in particular young people, who are generally advocates of behavioural changes in society, are essential. Mrs. Members, reducing food waste in the final consumer implies changing behaviors, habits, attitudes and even the routines of families and society. And this is a process that is long overdue, a process of continuity. It is therefore necessary to compromise society in general and institutions of social solidarity for joint work and partnership. We believe that a broad debate, with social and political representation, can contribute to a question that is a global design but, in the first place, a national design. in recent years, food waste has been the target of increasing attention, either with the declaration of the European Year of Combating Food Waste in 2014, and later in 2016, with the declaration of the National Year of Combating Food Waste. The CDS has been following this theme since the first hour. following the declaration of the European year in 2014, the previous government, as has already been mentioned here, mobilised in a series of initiatives, from the very beginning of the preparation of the Food Waste document—A commitment of all, which involved 34 signatories—and not 25, as has already been mentioned — in its majority of civil society, and intended to be the first step towards the definition of common and transversal principles towards zero waste. In fact, we did not do everything, but it was a first step, and this document contained measures that would since strengthen cooperation, through information to the consumer on labels and deadlines for consumption, the exploitation of alternative markets for intermediate products or with lower consumer value and encourage non-conventional chains of food redistribution. We all know the legislation of short circuits and until now we no longer strange, until we value, the small fruit that appears on large surfaces, and also on small ones, which is usually directed to a more childish audience but that until a few years ago not any kind of commercial valorization, fulfilling all quality standards. We are still far from achieving the goal that we all propose, but much has already been done of the plan that the previous Government has drawn. production and industry, with all the mobilization that the entire civil society has had, good management protocols have been developed for the donation of surpluses and many agricultural organizations already have their own initiatives. in the distribution, surplus referral protocols were initiated for the social economy; for awareness-raising and education leaflets were prepared, in collaboration with the official entities to ensure all food safety — DGAV, ASAE and DECO — and, in an accountability logic, the PRATØ initiative, also mentioned above, was launched. The CDS argues that efforts should be geared towards changing attitudes and, however, public policies can be developed and instruments created which, directly or indirectly, promote the reduction of waste. The CDS therefore defends a regulatory and non-tax model, a model of awareness rather than punishment. in this field, there are many good examples of increasing mobilization of all civil society that have resulted not only in the reduction of food waste as the provision of a set of meals to a very large number of people with various types of deficiencies, which with this proximity policy can be identified and referred to the possible resolution of their problems, and otherwise would not have been identified and would not be possible to solve them. Perhaps the best example is that of the City Council of Lisbon, which managed to overcome all party issues and bring together the necessary consensus to constitute a Municipal Committee on Combating Food Waste. And I say that you have surpassed the party issues because this commissioner is the result of a proposal by the Director of CDS João Gonçalves Pereira, who, in the opposition, was appointed Commissioner in recognition of his work and commitment in this case, with the support of the President of the Council of António Costa, now Prime Minister, having been approved unanimously. Today, the City Council of Lisbon is considered to be an example to follow and replicate in other cities in the world, in particular by the FAO representative in Portugal, who stated at the end of last week that « the magic of what has been done in Lisbon in the fight against food waste is based on strengthening the role of civil society ». Finally, Mr President, I would like to give a word to all those who take part in these initiatives on a voluntary basis. Besides companies, which usually do so for social responsibility, men, women, children and young people who devote hours and days of their personal lives to humanitarian causes, with delivery and mission spirit, to volunteer,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... voluntary this which is devalued by some political leaders and without which much of what has been done would not be possible or, at least, at least it would have been achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u71	Mrs Deputies has already spent her time, having even exceeded him a lot because there was a problem with the times and only started to discount it for one minute. You want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u72	Mr. President, I'm really finishing up. I said that volunteering is often devalued by some political leaders, but without it much of what was done it would not be possible or much less would have been achieved. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u73	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the debate brought by the Green Party, which is as important as this one and which touches us all. The issue of the donation of surplus food goods and their redistribution for the purpose of social solidarity has been, and quite well, widely discussed in the Assembly of the Republic. Strengthening international scientific data and the national design of various entities, this House adopted a resolution in 2015 to combat food waste and to promote efficient food management, with 15 recommendations to the Government, declaring 2016 as the national year of combating food waste. An integrated national strategy to combat food waste is the only effective means of reducing food waste by 50 % to 2025, as proposed by the European Parliament. In the face of this warning, we feel the need to bring forward more impetus and a realisation initiative for this debate that has been going on for many years, too long. Members, hearings and meetings before such alarming evidence. In accordance with the European Parliament resolution of January 2012, « If additional preventive measures are not taken, the overall food waste volume will reach 126 million tonnes by 2020, i.e. a 40 % increase ». Four years have passed since then and we have not seen the implementation of these additional measures in the Portuguese parliament, as has happened recently, for example in France and Italy. In order to contribute to this debate, together with all political and social actors, the NAP has proposed the regulation of the donation of surplus food goods and its redistribution for purposes of social solidarity by commercial areas over 400m2, to properly identified receiving institutions that then distribute them to people with proven economic deficiency. We have also proposed the allocation of tax benefits to companies in the primary, secondary and tertiary sectors that send the surplus of food that is still proper for consumption to the receiving institutions, and all initiatives must be accompanied by a commitment to the training and social awareness of all those involved in the food chain and management. This will also be a way for agri-food companies to expand their contribution to a national, European and global goal, as well as to be an instrument to enhance their policies and strategies for social responsibility. Despite these proposals, it will also be crucial to carry out a new national research into food waste which includes more data and variables, in order to complement the only existing national study, the loss. There are several humanitarian charities that work daily to redirect food goods and meals that can be wasted, also contributing to more sustainable management of land resources and simultaneously promoting the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u75	The honourable Member has already exceeded his time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u76	And it is in this way that, from production to consumption, the State, companies, the other social and humanitarian organizations, such as citizens, incorporate participatory and empathic citizenship and strengthen the social fabric, launching resilience bases, especially in the face of clear targets such as those that we need to meet in terms of reducing food waste. It is precisely this field that the State must promote, so that all these entities can cooperate for greater good.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u77	Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to congratulate the Green Party on the initiative it has taken to bring to this debate a matter of concern to us all. « Food waste has taken on such a dimension as to be considered a global problem, which is reflected throughout all the links of the agri-food chain, from field to consumer table ». This statement from the European Parliament shows awareness of the problem and the need to intervene to reverse this reality. According to an annual FAO study, 1.3 billion tonnes of food are wasted, an economic loss with serious impacts on natural resources on which human beings depend to feed. At the same time, in developed countries, the flow of food waste represents a considerable fraction of urban waste produced, with an impact on social, economic and environmental development. For one year, food produced but not consumed requires a volume of water equivalent to the water volume of the largest river in the European continent, the Volga River in Russia is responsible for the issue of 3 billion tonnes of greenhouse gases for the atmosphere. We are faced with high-scale environmental impacts that affect our ecosystem, unbalanced it in an irreversible way. Aware of the need to transform our world, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which entered into force on 1 January, as has been mentioned several times, has defined a set of policies and practices that consolidate responsible production and consumption. The implementation of the Sustainable Production and Consumption Action Plan should be the motto, the guideline that needs to be implemented, in order to ensure the realisation of the measures indicated, not only for its development but above all to ensure sustainable management, with efficient use of resources and respect for the environment. Ecosystems will not sustain this unbridled exploitation of natural resources and environmental disrespect for much longer. in this sense, we must continue to defend the existence of protected areas, to preserve and guarantee biodiversity, to increase environmental education, to efficiently manage our forests, to respect the environment through rational management of the territory, to promote efficient management of public structures, so that ecosystems operate naturally, ensuring the survival of human beings themselves. At the same time, large national and international companies, authorities, public entities have to contribute with their share, rationalizing the use of water, fuel and energy, reducing the use of chemicals, carrying out the proper management of their waste and adopting sustainable practices of production and consumption. Consumer awareness and the development of environmental education itself have led us to an increasing number of people who advocate different practices and who require companies, their citizens and the State to behave the same way as regards forms of consumption, production and sharing of responsibilities. A more responsible position on the part of companies that comply with the laws and which in some cases develop and support projects for environmental preservation, waste reduction, minimization of pollution emissions to the air, water and soils, in addition to what is required of them, faithful consumers and project them as future economic and business structures. We therefore need countries to make the transition to an inclusive green economy, low in carbon and efficient in the use of resources, and that each of us, with our families, commercial establishments, restaurants, schools, ministries, businesses, contribute to environmental sustainability, promoting practices that guarantee food security and the efficient use of resources and food, without the wastes that afflict us today. Governments cannot continue to allow one third of all food produced to be lost and wasted due to inadequate practices, when there are 870 million people who don't have what to eat every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u79	Mr. João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The topic we are discussing today, food waste, is relevant. It is difficult to understand why food is deteriorating without being consumed and, on the other hand, millions suffer from food shortages. It seems anachronistic, this reality has reason to be. One reason is in the production processes: here will be one of the first problems. The agricultural production strategy is oriented and framed by criteria, so-called market, in which the economic value of the products overlaps with its food value. This has justified the option of valuing intensive production models to the detriment of family agriculture, which, among other things, is associated with quality and proximity production. How this problem crosses food sovereignty. The productive sectors are oriented according to the demand for higher and faster profits, regardless of the country's needs. In spite of the country's level of self-sustainment in the agri-food sector above 70 % in meat products, cereals for bread, potatoes and legumes, these levels are in some cases dramatic. Therefore, the CFP believes that the national objectives that only achieve the balance of the agri-food balance in value can be short relative to the food needs of Portuguese. Another problem is the normalization of food products. Food products are valued according to their appearance and not according to their food value. Such measures cause many products to end up in farms. They are therefore responsible for the rules of the European Union which, although they have been subject to amendments, continue to promote the abandonment of food.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u81	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u82	I will finish, Mr. President. As we said a year ago, I quote, "a modern and sovereign country has to guarantee the food of its citizens, seeking to achieve self-sufficiency, as far as possible, and taking advantage of all the resources that involve the rejection of taxes that limit the possibilities of consumption, making the aspect of measured content more prevalent, must be combated. I conclude by saying that the CFP is available to curb the fight against food waste through the guarantee of our food sovereignty and by stimulating and valuing national production. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u83	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Ponteira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : Allow me also to offer a greeting to the Greens Ecological Party on the subject of this appeal to the Government. Once again, this is an essential debate, I would even say that it is mandatory in this Parliament, from which the proper consequences must be removed. This fight is not new, but it's pressing. Food waste has an impact on ethical, economic, health and environmental levels, as has already been addressed here today, but this is also a social problem: Portugal was the country where there was the highest rise in the rate of severe deprivation, in which, as we know, among other difficulties, if it includes food needs. Children and young people are the most affected today and with serious repercussions on their future. With the crisis experienced in recent years they have also changed the eating habits of Portuguese who at nothing contribute to a reduction in food waste, and much less to a balanced diet. When 17 % of food is wasted, and a large part still in the production phase, when numbers are colossal — 200 million people who could be fed with food that is every day wasted in Europe — we realize that fighting poverty is also a serious battle against food waste. It is imperative to ensure the right to access to food for all and this fight does not go away, Mr President. Members, as has already been mentioned today, for food support on the basis of charity, but because the necessary conditions are created for the accessibility of all foods which guarantee, at the same time, respect for the human dignity and autonomy of people and provide a balanced and healthy diet. It is a cross-cutting issue — we know — that everyone is concerned, but education for children and young people is essential for not food waste, thus placing themselves on prevention. To do so, it is necessary to promote education for citizenship and health with them. It is also essential for legislative consolidation in this area, in-depth studies, research on production, industry, trade and consumption, and the proper articulation of public policies in various fields, agriculture, health, education, environment, economic and social. It is necessary to quantify, monitor and evaluate, creating the conditions necessary for a national combat, but it is also desirable to regional and local, involving the various actors, on the one hand, in awareness-raising and awareness-raising and on the other, in the search for the best solutions for the best results. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u85	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this debate. Let's move on to the closure now. You have the floor on behalf of the Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u86	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I leave some final notes to tell you this: in the Greens' perspective, when we talk about food waste, we have to talk, at all times and necessarily, about the right to food and healthy food. This right is for everyone! Now, we need to realize that this has a cross-section that we cannot lose sight of. It is that when the former Government cut income to families, at the level of wages or pensions, and when it cut social support, particularly in the family allowance, in the unemployment allowance, among others, it removed many of these families' ability to have access and success in their right to food. We remember - as in the years 2012, 2013 and 2014 many people arrived at the Assembly of the Republic to register hunger! Hungry! What led the Greens to present a project, in the Assembly of the Republic, which provided for the creation of school breakfast, because we received complaints from many schools, directly from the teachers, from children who arrived at school without eating food and the lunch they ate at school was the only meal they ate on the day. Therefore, this to say that social policies are also extremely relevant when we discuss this matter. On the other hand, and to put me a little bit into Mrs' logic. Members of the CDS, I would also like to give them this information: when we held the hearing, as I mentioned here in Parliament at the beginning of June, the ARESP — Association of Restoration and Similarities in Portugal — told us about the creation of a food supply programme for the needy and when you increased VAT in the restoration the confrontation with difficulties was of such a order that ARESP had to suspend the programme. So, look at how all this is interconnected and how all this is relevant. Then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one issue that is fundamental for the Greens: knowledge of what is wasted and how it is wasted. We cannot lose this objective and, therefore, the Greens also consider it important to work for a legislative initiative and we are working to realize the level of waste in the public canteens. Because public canteens also have to be in some way an example in the actions we have to take. We do not know what level of food waste and its effective cause in the canteens. For example, on the other day, when we discussed the Greens Bill on the alternative of vegetarian food in the canteens, a PSD Member said that most likely to introduce this item would lead to more food waste. And no! Interestingly, in our hearing, one of the issues that was mentioned was that in school canteens, where only one dish is offered to children, when children do not like this dish, there is a volume of waste. This is to make us reflect on how food offers can also promote the reduction of food waste. Finally, there is a whole set of factors that we have in fact to allow ourselves to know and reflect so that we will then take more appropriate measures. I would like to say by now that there are threats that we must also take into account. For example, Minister, the fact that PDR 2020 ( Rural Development Programme 2016 - 2020 ) does not have a subprogramme for short-marketing circuits chains is problematic or at least it is essential that this more direct aid be made. On the other hand, we have the threat of TTIP (Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership) and CETA (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement) which, as we know, are monsters of globalization that aim to serve the interests of the multinationals and spice small producers and local production. We must be careful about this. We cannot be acting on the one hand and then supporting mega-agreements in such a way that only the big ones benefit and that they go against exactly what is fundamental and that today, in this debate, we have spoken so much about, which is family production and local production, which are just one of the best ways to allow food waste to be reduced. Mrs Fatima Ramos, regarding an intervention she has made in this regard, please tell me the following: as regards this guide, which you have mentioned, on the prevention of the food waste of 2014, we talked about it in our intervention. However, we have found that this is a set of principles and that it has no established goals. But, Mrs. Member, don't look at the mirror and don't realize that in 2014, 2015 the PSD and the CDS, who were in the government, did nothing strictly about the matter is that it's already a little bit of dumping more, let me tell you! Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank all the greetings that all the Members have received. Ladies and gentlemen who spoke made this call from the Greens. But we are not satisfied only with the greetings, despite our thanks. What we believe is that this plea can be an engine for the action in Parliament of the various parliamentary groups and also of the Government in the field of combating food waste. And that's what we expect to result from this interpellation. From the Greens, we are doing our work and building a set of initiatives that we would like to see discussed in the next legislative session. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u87	To close the debate, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you will understand that a short intervention does not mean devaluation of the subject we are discussing. I would like to welcome the broad consensus that this issue has generated between Parliament and the Government, of course, in its triple dimension: social, economic and environmental. I would also like to acknowledge and pay tribute to the great and enormous effort of thousands of anonymous citizens and many institutions to combat this problem and to practice solidarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to reaffirm the Government's attitude with regard to respect for Parliament and its decisions and recommendations and also say that we will do everything in our power to follow up the recommendations of Resolution No 65 / 2015 and to confirm the Government's commitment to international bodies, from the outset, in the European Union, in order to do everything to find common methodologies and actions to address this problem. Finally, I would like to reaffirm the Government's desire to give urgent expression to the implementation of a national strategy to combat waste and an action plan, in which I hope that the whole society will participate and, of course, in a more relevant way than all, Parliament. So the government will do everything it can to make that happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-22.u89	Thank you, Minister Capoulas Santos for your capacity for synthesis. Tomorrow the plenary meeting will take place at 3 p.m., with the first item on the agenda evoking the centenary of Law No 621 of 23 June 1916, which establishes the parish in Portugal. of the second point, there is interpellation No 6 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — On health policies ( CDS-PP ). the third point shows, without due time, the presentation of motions for resolutions Nos 9 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves for accession the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Room Service for Fishing Ships, STCW-F Convention adopted in London on 7 July 1995 and 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Intercalar Economic Partnership Agreement between the Ivory Coast, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Abidjan on 26 November 2008 and Brussels on 22 January 2009. There will also be regular votes at the end of the debate. I hope everything's gonna be okay by the end of this afternoon. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 5 minutes.]]
