ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries. Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves has the floor for the reading of the file, which is quite wide today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were accepted, the projects of lein.o 217 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Prevents participation of under 18 years of age in professional or amateur Tauromachic activities and eliminates the category of bull killers ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, connected with 12. the Commission ; 218 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Tenth amendment to the Statute of Deputies adopted by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( PSD ) ; 219 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — No amendment to the Legal Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and High Public Charges, approved by Law No 64 / 93 of 26 August ( PSD ) ; 220 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ( Public control of the wealth of political office holders ( PSD ) ; 221 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Thirty-fifth amendment to the Penal Code adopted by Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March, fourth amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July and sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ( PCP ) ; 222 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Changes in the territorial limits of the freghies between the parish of Sexo de Manhoses and the Union of Freguesias de Valtorno and Mourão and the Union of Freguesias de Cando and Carvalho de Egas ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; 223 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — prohibits the use of the territory included in the RN and RN to real estate projects of potential national interest projects ( PINs) that do not meet the criteria and purposes of their classification ( CFPs ) ; 224 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Legal Statute for Animals in the Civil Code ( PSD ) ; 225 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Regulates the activity of professional representation of interests ( Lobbying ) ( CDS-PP ) ; 226 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Strengthens transparency in the exercise of political and high-level positions ( CDS-PP ) ; 227 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by assigning a legal status to animals ( BE ) ; 228 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Review the sanctions regime applicable to crimes against animals ( BE ) ; 229 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends and partially repeals Decree-Law No 154 / 2013 of 5 November establishing the system for monitoring investment projects, eliminating the figure of projects of potential national interest ( PIN) ( The Greens ) ; 230 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes the scheme for the allocation of incentives and support for the establishment of physicians in areas lacking in the National Health Service ( CFP ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; and 231 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — establishes the regime for the replacement of strawberries ( CFP ), which falls to 11. the Commission. Resolution Nos 302 / XIII ( 1 ) were also introduced. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the process of identifying asbestos in public buildings, installations and equipment and its full removal ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; 303 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — By a public and inclusive school in all compulsory education ( CFP ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 304 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by strengthening support for informal caregivers ( PCP ) ; 305 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government continue to invest in the Arsenal do Alfeite ( PSD ), which falls to 3. the Commission ; 306 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver ( PS ) ; 307 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by assessing environmental risks and impact on other economic activities resulting from exploration, research, development and production of oil and/or natural gas in Algarve and Costa Alentejana ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, with connection to 7. a and 11. a Commission ; 308 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to support informal caregivers and the approval of their status ( PSD ) ; 309 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government public policies in support of university sport ( BE ) ; 310 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Creates the Statute of the Informal Caregiver ( BE ) and 311 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Strengthening the number of public beds in the National Network of Integrated Continued Care and the National Network of Palliative Care (BE). Finally, motions for resolutions 4 / XIII ( 1 ) were accepted. ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion on income taxes signed in São Tomé on 13 July 2015, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 5 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United States of America to strengthen fiscal compliance and implement the FATCA, signed in Lisbon on 6 August 2015, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 6 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion on income taxes signed in Lisbon on 3 June 2015, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 7 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion on income taxes signed in Lisbon on 17 March 2015, which falls to 2. the Commission ; and 8 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Bahrain to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion in respect of income taxes signed in Manama on 26 May 2015. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u3	Let us then enter the agenda, which has as its sole point interpellation No 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Focusing on the problems of regional asymmetries, desertification and depopulation of the territory and on the policies necessary to ensure the balanced development of the country ( CFP ). To open the debate and to intervene on behalf of the CFP, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The appeal to the Government required by the CFP Parliamentary Group today is focused on the problems of regional asymmetries, desertification and depopulation of the territory and the policies necessary to ensure the balanced development of the country, and was announced on its Parliamentary Days held in April in the districts of Vila Real and Bragança. The development of the country, based on a coherent, cross-sectional and uniform approach of the national territory, is not only to comply with the fact that over the years it has been a victim of economic, fiscal, labour and agricultural policies and the establishment of certain power and state concepts. in this context, the asymmetries between the coast and the interior, the depopulation, the aging of a large portion of the national territory and the physical desertification of these territories have been accentuated. If nothing is done, within a few years there will be hundreds, thousands, the urban agglomerations voted for abandonment and, with them, a portion of national territory is to be occupied, to produce. But this situation is not the work of chance, it is the result of a set of policies that determine its existence and its worsening. The transfer movements of rural populations to large urban centres will have a multiplicity of reasons, but have a very strong relationship with poverty. People move to cities to flee to poverty and to seek better living conditions and dignity, which, most of the time, do not end up finding. A basic set of indicators gives us the clear notion of the magnitude of the problem in Portugal. The first is population density: the municipalities where it is larger — Amadora, Odivelas, Porto, Lisboa and Oeiras — are in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto and have a number of inhabitants per km2 above 3700. at the other end are Monforte, Avis, Idanha-a-Nova, Alcoutim, in the interior, especially in the south, with a maximum of 7, 6 inhabitants per km2. Alcoutim, in the Algarve, has a population density of 4, 5, demonstrating that asymmetries exist even within the regions themselves. As for the gross birth rate, the municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, with rates above 10 per 1000, and at the end of the scale, Penamacor, Sernancelhe, Oleiros, Gavion and Alcoutim, where the rate does not exceed 3 per 1000. The third indicator is that of the aging indices: Alcoutim, Oleiros, Vila Velha de Rodão, Pampilhosa da Serra and Penamacor, where the ratio does not fall below 550 %. The lowest employment rates are in the municipalities of Alentejo, Beiras and Tres-os-Montes. Health, education, cultural equipment, among others, focuses on urban areas and, when there are rural areas, is often at the expense of municipal budgets, contributing to the worsening demographic situation. This reality was enhanced and aggravated by the lack of public investment, which did not allow the proper infrastructure of the country's interior on highways. There are numerous examples of IP and CI initiated and to conclude, in rail transport and even in telecommunications infrastructure, that the case of TDT (Digital Terrestrial Television ) is a flagrant example. On the other hand, the options to make the state worse and to transfer to the private business area important social functions made a large portion of the national territory if they were to withdraw and close schools, health extensions, post offices, social security services, GNR posts and fregetal joints. The argument of the lack of people inside is not admissible to support political options. It is the responsibility of the State and the governments which manage the central State, according to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, « to promote economic and social cohesion throughout the national territory, guiding the development towards a balanced growth of all sectors and regions and progressively eliminating the economic and social differences between the city and the countryside and between the coast and the interior ». Governments cannot merely see that the territories are depopulation. governments must intervene to change this dramatic situation. While the authorities play their part, develop industrial parks, create educational, cultural or social infrastructures, reality has shown that this is not enough and that concerted measures and central power responsibility are needed. The absence of a level of regional power, as enshrined in the Constitution, has not helped to resolve the problem. Reconfiguration measures (coordination and regional development committees) or decentralisation of the implementation of central policies will not solve the problem, which will persist until, in particular, the administrative regions are established. Depopulation drags with it a serious consequence that is the physical desertification of the territory. More than half of the national territory is susceptible to desertification. A desert land loses, or is highly conditioned, its productive capacity. As the PCP asserts and defends, it is necessary to produce less. The country needs to value and enhance its productive capacity and not lose it. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] The issue of regional asymmetries requires intervention, good intentions, do not arrive and reality confirms it. The Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 129 / 2011, which originated in a proposal from the PSD, was adopted in September 2011. It recommended the creation and dynamisation of a national plan for territorial cohesion. the monitoring of this plan included the periodic monitoring and evaluation of the territorial cohesion of the country and the impact on the same policies, programmes and large public projects, including through the development of indicators of regional asymmetries and a report of the state of territorial cohesion and implementation of the plan, to be presented and discussed biannually in the Assembly of the Republic. Since the adoption of the Resolution almost five years have passed, four of which with a PSD/CDS government. You remember the ladies. How many of the two reports on the state of territorial cohesion that should have been discussed by the Assembly of the Republic have been effectively? None! Moreover, the Resolution recommended that the Government assume territorial cohesion as an essential principle and objective of the administrative reorganization already initiated, in particular in the context of the reform of the local power and the deconcentrated administration of the State. This is what has been seen: extinction of fragesias, in particular the smallest and tendentially more necessary to populations; closure of courts; closure of schools; intention to close financial allocations, only caused by the resistance of populations and entities; implementation of tolls in the SCU; reduction of financial transfers and aggravation of transfers of responsibilities to the authorities. If we want to do a study on what to do to aggravate the problems of regional cohesion and asymmetry, the former PSD/CDS Government is certainly one of the bad examples to study and avoid repeating.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u6	Mr. President and Mr. Members, it is absurd that the largest copper mines are exploited within Portugal and that the whole of the country is out of the country as a stratum, without at least being transformed into metal. It is absurd to produce olive oil in the rural territories, then leave the country bulk to be labelled in Spain or Italy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u8	It is absurd that the mineral exploited in Moncorvo must be transported along the roads of the region, in numerous trucks, because railway connections have been disabled. A development policy is something more than distributing scarce public investment resources and waiting for private investment stimulated from that. Development is not the same as growth and the latter is often overvalued to hide the absence of the first. There are several examples throughout the national territory. In addition to investment and large public projects, an economic model is needed that is concerned not only with growth but also with the distribution of wealth and the creation of jobs with rights. Only this can promote the development that we aspire to and that the country needs. The patriotic and left-wing policy proposed by the CFP to the people and the country includes 'promoting effective regional development, based on the rational use of resources, a critical public investment policy and other policies aimed at preserving nature, combating depopulation and desertification and greater territorial balance and economic and social cohesion in the various regions, respect for the autonomous system and the autonomy of local authorities and strengthening their financial capacity; the creation of administrative regions according to the will of the people'. This policy and the development it advocates are not disconnected from a necessary defence of the productive sectors and national production, based on the defence of the processing and extractive industry, agriculture and fisheries. The first step in reducing regional asymmetries is to create conditions for people to have decent lives. Thus, it is necessary: to recover income and rights; to recover frequencies, courts and public services; to set up health professionals and other qualified workers; to increase levels of public investment and support for productive sectors to create wealth and employment sustainably; to value workers and their rights and to raise the living standards of the populations. It is this policy that the interior needs to develop. The CFP is here to contribute, bringing these proposals to the debate! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u9	At the opening of the appeal, Mr Under-Secretary-General has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the CFP's Parliamentary Group on the initiative to promote this appeal to the Government, focusing on the issues of regional asymmetries, desertification and depopulation of the territory, and on the policies necessary to ensure the balanced development of the country. These are themes to which we recognize relevance and currentity. These policies to combat regional asymmetries, desertification and depopulation are necessary policies that aim at a more balanced country, a more supportive territory, a more equal development. These are structural problems of our economic and social development. Problems that, in recent years, with the abandonment of the interior, seen as a fatality, have led to significant worsening. in recent years, the most important dimension of public policies has been neglected: the people to whom they are addressed. More than in the rest of the country, the interior has suffered from the decline of the population and the continuing emigration of our generation of younger people more qualified than ever before, quickly worsening the ageing of the population. In addition to the financial, economic and social crisis, the former Government has promoted a strong reduction in the presence of the State in these territories, including the blind closure of various public services of proximity: courts, health infrastructures and finance services. The lives of the populations were significantly affected and the provision of public service to Portuguese and Portuguese deteriorated. This Government proposes a strategy to enhance the territory, territorial development, based on two fronts: the Atlantic façade and the peninsula façade. The interior of the country cannot be seen as « the rear of the coast ». This Government sees the interior as an opportunity to open markets for exploration, in a strategic design of economic affirmation and modernization of the productive fabric, especially in border regions. Looking at the interior as land of abandonment and forgetfulness is a page that we definitely have to return. The interior must be seen as a new centrality, a centrality in a cross-border market representing 6 million consumers, or almost 60 million, if we consider the Iberian market as a whole. The internal market is the gateway to the single European market. It is on this scale that we should take advantage of and value the resources and conditions of the territories, modernising the productive fabric. The Government intends to return decision-making power to the territories on its own future and to reduce economic asymmetries. In fact, the development of the country depends on getting closer to the coast of the interior, and the interior of the coast, so that Portugal can be a more cohesive and capable country. It is in this centrality that the Government defends the planning of the territory, with intelligent, mobilising and sustainable development strategies. We assume the principle of subsidiarity as a pillar of State action, as the basis of a relationship of trust indispensable to the definition of public policies to enhance our territory and in particular of the interior. Only in this way will we be able to find the best solutions for regional asymmetries, promoting the restoration, rejuvenation and dynamisation of these territories, without which we will not achieve a harmonious and cohesive development of our country. The principle of subsidiarity cannot be a matter of rhetoric! It is established through a process of decentralization with adequate distribution of resources, which strengthens and deepens local autonomy. The deepening of local autonomy is a central part of the state and government reform strategy, alongside a decisive option for administrative modernization as a way of eliminating context costs. hence the priority given to the democratic legitimacy of the coordination and regional development committees, the priority given to the strengthening of the competences of local authorities, placing in the municipalities, through either of their own competences or of inter-municipal cooperation through inter-municipal communities, the centre of the development of public policies of proximity. Only then will it be possible to exercise fully, legitimately, the powers to be transferred from the State to organs closest to the people. We will also promote a bet on the creation of a generalized network of public services of proximity, which make the state present in the territory, providing a public service of quality, which is an example of the 14 shops of the citizen, which, throughout this year, will operate, mostly in municipalities of the interior. The Government also places on an effective decentralization of competences in areas such as transport, education, health, social action, promoting improved supply in public transport, improving intermodal coordination, while promoting the sustainability of the system and its accessibility. The articulation of different public services, with an appropriate service at each territorial level, is an essential element of a strategy of cohesion and territorial valorization. Therefore, it was not just a symbol of the fact that the celebration of the 100 days of the Government has been marked in Idanha-a-Nova by the entry into operation of the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior, which has as its central design the construction of a national programme for territorial cohesion which, among other measures, promotes the creation of urban-rural partnerships and coalitions of medium cities, projects supported by scientific institutions and knowledge production, cross-border cooperation, repopulation and rehabilitation of the interior territories. Work together with local authorities, with all areas of central administration, but also with the social partners represented in social consultation is crucial for the construction of this real territorial cohesion programme, which has long been forgotten. In parallel with a territorial cohesion programme, sectoral measures are developing to enhance the territory, with the central focus being the mitigation of regional asymmetries, the fight against desertification and the depopulation of the territory. With these measures, we aim to dynamize the local economy, qualify and increase employment, attract productive investment and promote a better link between urban and rural areas, preserving and enhancing endogenous resources and ensuring the people's stay. For this, it is also essential to bet on the cross-border market, from the outset through a system of incentives for the installation of enterprises and the increase of production in border territories. We intend to deepen this cooperation through measures that promote the improvement of the quality of life of the neighbouring, Portuguese and Spanish populations who live in these areas, promoting Eurocities, mutual recognition of academic qualifications and qualifications, the shared use of public services. All these measures involve a strategy for the establishment of population in the interior, the attraction of population, the promotion of both agriculture and innovative business spaces at local level. We're done as we started: talking about people. It is, for this government, that is a major design: the bet on people. They justify public policies, they justify the appreciation of the interior and the promotion of territorial cohesion. Only in this way will we be able to mitigate the costs of inefficiencies resulting from the territorial discoordination of the State's unconcentrated administration and the weight of a centralist tradition that penalises, in particular, the peninsula facade of our country. Rationalizing the territorial administration of the State, decentralizing and promoting subsidiarity are fundamental requirements for governance based on local autonomy, proximity management and the promotion of competitiveness, conducive to sustainable development with true territorial cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u11	To request clarification from Mr João Ramos, you have the floor of Mrs Emília Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u12	Mr President, Mr Ramos, allow me, in my previous note, to leave you two considerations: firstly, to welcome the CFP for bringing up this issue which is so important to the country and who else has been put on the political agenda by the previous Government as a result of a study promoted by the PSD, as well as to remind us, Territories of Low Density, Territories of High Potential ; secondly, to say nothing surprises us that the Communist Party wishes to establish a causal link between the so-called regional asymmetries and the policies of the PSD and CDS, as it is not surprising that we also want to continue to defend the paternalist State as the solution for the phenomena of desertification and demographic regression or, then, to make the populations of the low-density territories of public and state welfare. It is this, of course, that totally separates us from your vision. Mr Ramos, let me tell you that the door to territorial development does not open out. The territorial development door opens inside, even though with the invaluable help of the public authorities. Opening the door to development of this territory requires the contribution and involvement of all social, economic and political, public and private actors. And this was done very well by the previous government, because it took territorial cohesion as a priority. Despite the financial constraints on the responsibility of the Socialist Party, it was the previous government that took decisive steps to promote the interior with the creation of the status of low density territories and with the allocation of this status to 165 municipalities. The allocation of increases in investment projects in these territories within Portugal 2020 was also considered one of the most emblematic positive differentiation policies. I remember that we created the Territorial Affairs Team and the Territorial Concertation Council ; we implemented the VALORIZAR, a program of economic valorization of territories and generator of wealth and employment; we designed and developed the programs Decentralize, Approach and Portugal Porta-a-Porta ; we launched the + Superior program. And more examples would be here if I had time. These were some of the main objectives of the national agenda for the Low Density Territories that the current government now wants to ignore, justifying the creation of the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior. Having regard to these considerations, I would like to ask Mr João Ramos a few questions. What is the CFP's position on broken policies, such as the suggested direct election of metropolitan areas? Choosing the presidents of the metropolitan areas in 2017 without giving equal treatment to the inter-municipal communities (CIM) is or is not contributing to further regional asymmetries? It is clear that we are talking about structures whose competences must be adjusted and negotiated according to their specificities. But if the transfer of competences to the metropolitan areas requires democratic legitimacy, why do not the necessary conditions be created for CIMs to have the same treatment? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u13	Mrs Emília Santos, as there is the possibility of discounting time in the overall time of the party, the Bureau has allowed Mrs Emília Santos to exceed the normal time to request clarifications. You have the floor to answer, Mr. João Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u14	Mr President, Mrs Emília Santos, I am grateful for the questions you have raised because when asking questions, you appreciate the intervention of the CFP. The former Government has made an important contribution, but it has made a contribution so that this problem will take much longer to get out of the agenda. This was the contribution that PSD and CDS made. I asked, in my speech, where were the reports. Mrs Depute said that the PSD and CDS government have done a lot for the development of the interior and territorial cohesion and have been presenting to the Assembly of the Republic, according to a proposal from the PSD, at least two reports because it was expected to submit a report every two years and never did. Therefore, the PSD proposal has never been met by the PSD itself. Let me tell you, Madam Member, that we do not follow this idea that the door must be opened inside. What you are trying to do is to pass on responsibilities, due to lack of development, to those in the territories that are not developed, alleviating responsibilities from the central power. We cannot follow this reflection, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u16	What is needed to develop the interior of the country? There must be people inside the country. Of course there must be people inside the country! Is there a need for schools there? There must be schools there! Should there be courts? There must be courts there! Is it necessary to respect local authorities? We must respect local authorities! Do people need to be there? Of course there must be people there! But what did the PSD and CDS do about these matters? The PSD and CDS government, which Mrs Emília Santos Deputy supported, closed, closed, reduced and sent to half a million Portuguese emigration. [[PCP applause.]] And we know that emigration is much more serious in the regions of the country. These are the reasons why the CFP said for a long time that it was necessary to change government and that there was a need to change policies. Mrs Deputy, on the questions she is asking about regional authorities and metropolitan areas, we will deal with these matters in a timely manner, which we consider to be of great importance. But one thing is certain: for these matters the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic must be fulfilled, particularly in terms of administrative regions, and this is what the CFP has been defending. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u17	Mr Under-Secretary-General, the Bureau shall record the inclusion, to request clarification, of eight Members. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u18	In two groups of four, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u19	In order to clarify this, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u20	Mr President, Minister, we would like to address issues related to decentralization of competences. It is necessary to decentralise the country in order to combat regional asymmetries and to develop them from an economic and social point of view and to change the administrative organisation of the State. But what we have seen in recent years, including through PSD and CDS, was exactly the opposite: they have closed schools, closed health services, closed post posts, even extinguished frequencies, closed discentred State support services to productive sectors. And everything in a concentration perspective, not decentralization. however, the evaluation that we make of the processes of decentralization of competences, which have also been advancing in recent years, is deeply negative. It is negative because it corresponded to the government's deresponsibility of its powers and competences, it is negative because it corresponded to the transfer of dissatisfaction and problems, it is negative because it corresponded to the transfer of more charges to the authorities, it is negative because it disrespected the will of its own populations, it is negative because it generated more asymmetries and more inequalities in our country, it is negative because it also disrespected the autonomy of local democratic power, treating the authorities as unconcentrated entities of the central administration. In view of these aspects, we have not had a real process of decentralization of competences but of deconcentration and transfer of problems. Mr Minister, for the CFP, decentralization of competence is the guarantee of better public service for the people, strengthening of rights, meeting their needs and improving the quality of such public services. We believe that decentralization cannot call into question the universality of the social functions of the State, which must contribute to the elimination of asymmetries, which cannot correspond, as we have already said, to the transfer of charges and which must respect the autonomy of the democratic local power, autonomy that must be deepened, which must be valued and which must mean the guarantee of the appropriate means so that the authorities can fulfil their powers. Mr Minister, this is the perspective we have on decentralization of competences, deconcentration. In fact, we need to have a country that advances in a perspective of greater proximity to populations but does not call into question fundamental rights. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u21	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Hortense Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u22	Mr President, Mr Minister, first of all I would like to thank the CFP for bringing this issue to the Plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. I consider it very important — and the PS also considers it important — that this issue be discussed in this House. In fact, there is a need for political will to move forward in a consistent manner in the matter of combating asymmetry and desertification. This political will was stated here today by the PS Government — which we welcome — with the implementation and announcement of the establishment of the Mission Unit for the Valorisation of the Interior and we hope, Mr Minister, that it will soon be able to present measures with impact on the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to recall—and not mention the PSD study—that there is a serious study carried out on the ground by DEMOSPIN (Economically Sustainable Demography—Revert the decline in peripheral areas), which says that the demographic problem in Portugal is widespread throughout the country. It is not excessively dramatic at national level but it is catastrophic inside and appeals to the ladies and gentlemen. Members, and also governments, not only to this, but to all governments, so that sustainable and non-reversible policies continue, as has happened in the past four years with the policies developed by the PSD/CDS government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I want to remember some of these policies here. I recall policies such as the elimination of positive discrimination, exemptions, discounts in A23, A24 and A25, self-directed from the interior that promoted mobility. What did the previous government do? He eliminated this positive discrimination! I remember the policies that led to the emigration of young and less young people who left our districts and, with that, we brought the numbers of emigration back to the values of the 1960s. [[PSD protests.]] I remember the policies that led to the demonization of public investment, as Mrs Emília Santos has just done when she referred to public investment as a matter of fact. However, public investment is absolutely necessary within the country to drag private investment with it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I want you to reflect on this: there are no people without public investment, there is no employment, there is no public and private investment, there is no labour force, and this leads to economic recession and leads to emigration, to less economic opportunities and services. This is a disaster we cannot afford. Nor can we allow the country to continue with two-thirds of its territory voted for abandonment because concrete policies are not developed that think the country as a whole, because the exploitation of the territory is not taken into account and endogenous resources are wasted. Mrs. Members, these interior regions have quality people, have investment and have some quality equipment, such as the agri-food cluster in Castelo Branco, besides there are other clusters in the various regions of our country. Not only us but the government must also support the interior in terms of public investment. in matters relating to Portugal 2020, which was so late in their ability to reach businesses, these investments located within must be positively discriminated against. I cannot fail to mention the railway issues, for example, the Beira Baixa line or links to Spain and the rest of Europe, the job creation issues, the issues which, as far as justice is concerned, bring about justice in terms of proximity to the citizens — all contrary to what the previous government has done — issues related to the reduction of moderate rates because we must also consider that much of our territory is made up of older people who do not have public transport and who have difficulties. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, are convinced that in the presentation of the Mission Unit programme, which the Minister mentioned here today, we will start a path which we want to be consensual in this House of policies that cannot be reversed, a way to tackle this problem at once. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u23	Mrs. Members, in this case too, the Bureau followed the same criterion as regards the overrun of time for intervention, and was deduced in the overall time of the PS Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Bruno Coimbra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, there is a big difference between saying and doing. The former government, led by the PSD, despite facing a financial emergency situation arising from socialist policies,... [[PS protests.]] ... put territorial cohesion and low-density territories on the agenda. His Government's government action, which is supported by PCP and Left Block Members, is centralist and increases inequalities. This government is agile to push with the belly, to push forward, to create studies, to create new structures as mentioned here — the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior — but the important thing is to see if the government, in fact, measures the impact of its policies throughout the national territory. Mr. Minister spoke a lot about the inside. He talked a lot, but he didn't say anything. I will therefore put five examples to him, which are, in fact, also five questions on this subject. First of all, when the government reverses the restructuring of the water sector, against the will of the municipalities in the interior of the country, preventing the fall of tariffs, do you think that this will give rise to territorial and social cohesion? When the government reverses the planned investments — public investments — with the dams of the country's interior, investments of your own National Barrage Plan, do you think that this dynamizes the local economies of these territories? [[Green Protests.]] Mr Minister, when the government brutally increases fuel by penalizing more people who do not have a capable public transport network, do you really think that this mitigates the differences between the large urban areas and the rest of the territory?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u26	When the government retreats on the decline of IRC, discouraging private investment, do you even think that this effect will not feel more strongly within the country and in the most disadvantaged territories?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u27	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u28	Fifth and last question: when the government prepares to suffocate schools with an association contract, when it throws into unemployment thousands of teachers and employees, do you even think that for the interior territories this problem will not feel even more dramatic? [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Mr Minister, I would say it is surreal to hear this government talk about fighting asymmetries. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u29	Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister, first of all, it is to welcome the relevance of such hot materials brought here by the Communist Party. I will say that it will remain for the history, very black, of this country all that the parish has passed during the reign of the previous government. Never in the history of local Portuguese power has there been such an affront and ignominy as during the PSD/CDS government. It was imposed the sadly famous law of the RATA — the law of the territorial administrative reorganisation of the city of Relvas, which mutilated and reduced the dust of more than 1000 parishes, more precisely 1168 parishes. It was a process of eliminating the ruler and the painting, without listening to anyone and against the will of autarchs and populations. All due to the whim of a man, but supported and sanctioned by the previous government and by many Members and many Members we have in this Chamber. Law No. 11 -A / 2013 of January 28, was a very bad law and reminds me of another law that prevailed in this country, even during the Constitutional Monarchy, during the government of Hintze Ribeiro, which was nicknamed the vile piece of shit and which allowed me to increase the number of regenerating deputies — the PSD and the CDS, of the height, and eliminate Republican Members. For I would call the law of RATA, the law of Relvas, an abominable shit II! This law on the distinction of fregueses not only violated the Constitution of the Republic but also the European Charter of Local Self-Government, therefore it is urgent that constitutional order be restored. Fortunately, we have a new framework, based on a parliamentary majority, and we all know that the current government, in its programme, advocates the re-evaluation of the process of extinction of strawberries. It is therefore necessary and urgent that these frequencies be restored, always in accordance with the will of the people. It is known that the Left Block, during this process, raised the question of the referendum so that in fact the populations would be consulted and it is known that today - we have this hope - other forces support this referendum. This initiative which the Left Block will shortly present in the Assembly of the Republic intends to provide Parliament with a constitutionally necessary framework law for the creation and modification of local authorities, whether they are parish or metropolitan areas, provided for in the Government Programme. The question I would like to put to the Minister is this: we were surprised by the recent statements by the Minister for Social Communication saying that, in the current framework or at least until the forthcoming elections, we would not have the evaluation of the local process, in particular of the fragesias. Does the Minister consider it appropriate to push for the resolution of the serious damage caused by the extinction of strawberries by 2017? Is the Government willing to cooperate in resolving this problem before these elections? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u31	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u32	Mr. President, I greet you. Mr Paula Santos, Hortense Martins, Bruno Coimbra and João Vasconcelos who asked me questions, allowing me here to highlight how much we appreciate the PCP initiative to bring subjects with this relevance to the centrality of the parliamentary debate. This way of looking at the priority that must be given to combating regional asymmetries, an integrated view of the territorial development of the country, the priority of social cohesion, territorial cohesion as an instrument for valuing the territory and promoting integrated development, is an essential part of building a broad convergence that allows the times of diffuse policies, the policies in which the development strategy deliberately went through cutting wages and pensions, the victims, always the same and always in disagreement with the Constitution, those times are now abandoned and there is a turning point in the direction of territorial development and cohesion around the promotion of growth. That is why decentralization of competences and subsidiarity, i.e. compliance with Article 6. the Constitution, which affirms local autonomy as an essential element of characterization of what is the Portuguese State, is the matrix of government action in this area. It does not make sense, therefore, that for four years, those who have eliminated public services, centralized unconcentrated structures of the State, fired almost 30,000 teachers here to talk about concerns, in bad faith, about the situation of safeguarding quality public education, when it has never been in this debate or, better, has not yet come to this debate. Let us hope that throughout today and throughout this legislature the PSD will find a constructive place. The decentralization of competences and subsidiarity are essential elements for rationalising public policies. It is essential to give consistency to the State's unconcentrated administration, first and foremost. For this reason, the Government's programme foresees that the State's unconcentrated structures are streamlined in the model corresponding to regional coordination and development committees, because this is the most coherent, more consensual model, more consolidated in our territorial structure. We can no longer have local authorities or entrepreneurs with development programs, with investment projects, martyred by the uncoordinated structures of the state, in which each department answers separately and in which each has its size, its vision, its territorial response, or according to a model of the region, or according to the district model, or according to any other model. First challenge: to streamline the State's deconcentrated administration. Secondly, believe in the capacity of a truly structured thought around regional development. That is why we are talking about the democratization of regional coordination committees and not their destruction, as has happened in the past four years, or about centralization in areas such as education, the environment, the economy, in which the disorganization of the State, inefficiency, has increased, increasing the cost of context in which centralization has been a mark of the performance of the Public Administration over the past few years. Therefore, establishing structures that, with a definition of responsibility from what is the regional will, allow to manifest those that are the development priorities at the North, Centre, Alentejo, Lisbon and Tejo Valley and Algarve, is a key element in improving the quality of public management. However, the key element in our reorganization of the state is, in fact, the decisive role of the municipalities. So what we want to do is an effective trust agreement with the democratic local authority, a trust contract that passes through the transfer of competences, adequate financial resources, and not through any deresponsibility. It goes through the guarantee of the universality of the public service and not a destruction of the public service of proximity. Therefore, we believe that in education, social action, civil protection, management of maritime and port areas, in health, a dimension of proximity allows for better quality governance. Thus, the commitment to the enhancement of the internal market, the promotion of investment — as mentioned here by Mrs Hortense Martins — is an essential element in the positive differentiation of investment attractiveness in tax matters. Concluding this view as that a zoom in a reform of the territory that should be seen in a global way and not in a succinct way around small cases, which prove that nothing has been learned from the mistakes of the past four years, as Mr Bruno Coimbra has done here, our commitment is to evaluate, in dialogue with the autarchs, with associations of autarcas or from municipalities, from what was a territorial reorganization of the fregueries made from above to below. Therefore, there is no sense in any other form of accelerated imposition of a territorial reorganization model. It makes sense, yes, to discuss with the associations of municipalities and parish, seeing those who are the mistakes and the consequences of the changes made, and to analyze how we can also define, for the parish, a space of affirmation, as true forms of proximity governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u33	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have started the second round of requests for clarification. Mr. Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Deputy Minister, the subject under discussion, on internal policies or whatever name you want to give, I think it deserves a broad consensus on your need, on your urgency, in this House. I don't have much to add to the diagnosis made either by the Portuguese Communist Party or by S. Ex. Minister. What matters is what is done in concrete, what has been done and what corresponds to concrete practices, because the interior needs this true discourse of ideas, proposals, and not that we are always starting from scratch in the discussions. Every time the inside is discussed the first thing that comes to the head of the people from the inside is what will close this time. [[PS protests.]] So we need to change the speech to practical and concrete things. The government says this: « We created a mission unit in January, which has 180 days to present the report ». But this is the most socialist idea I know. Whenever the Socialist Party is confronted with a problem, it creates a study office, a mission unit, and we study everything again. In order not to escape the speech that I want you to be serene, I will no longer speak to you about the proposal for a revision of the fusion of the parish, a review of what will be left after the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u35	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u36	I am glad that there are autarchical elections, because this solution seems to have been good for the good sense of the Socialist Party! Mr Minister, the previous government may not have done everything well, but instead of a mission structure, which will make diagnoses to then know what it will do, created the RCAEI (Coordination Meeting on Economic Affairs and Investment) which was no longer a meeting centre of State Secretaries of various ministries that, in particular, solved bureaucratic problems and constraints affecting, mostly and firstly, businesses, families and structures of the interior. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u37	We have nothing strictly against the territorial power, which is consolidated, which needs more transfers of competences, but also more financial packages, because transferring skills without the respective financial package means "touch and flee", it is transferring responsibilities to the local power, whether it is in the CCDRs or in the authorities, and then not giving the respective financial package. Mr Minister, I think we must have a policy of common sense, of rationality of the presence of the State. We can't have everything to close in one municipality and the other doesn't close anything. We must have a rational distribution, and the interior is available to have this rational discussion about where the State should or should not be and how the State can complement it. Minister, reopening courts, yes. But you know what? On the other hand, Mr Minister, while the previous Government may present in Embraer, in Luso Finsa, in Aquinas, a set of investments made in the interior, and the best way to ensure the existence of people in the territory, to value the territory, it is called investment - and thus to create jobs, to fix people, to fix families, to arrange innovation, to support SMEs, to support startups. All of this was done by the previous government through a set of investments all located inside.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u38	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u39	Minister, let's see what this government has done. Do you know what this government did to the dams of Alvito, Girabolhos and Fridão? They're locked up. I wonder if between a government that does, invests and supports the interior and another that closes, with autoarchs, as incredible as it seems, of the Socialist Party that now comes to tell the government "then, and now? What do we do to job creation and economic growth prospects? »... Mr Minister has to answer, because in practice what you are doing is closing up, it is taking up investment, unless you tell me what the investment AICEP has in pipeline or in relation to the 2020 internal programme. in Programme 2020, the previous government created an increase for SMEs and microenterprises, trade support, we reviewed the RJACSR- Legal Regime of Access and Exercise of Trade, Services and Restoration, we forced, and much, Simplex - in fact, the government plans to abolish bureaucracy, but the truth is that we see nothing in this matter. Mr Minister, the greatest aid to the development of the interior is the appreciation of agriculture, the appreciation of agri-food, support and exploitation of endogenous products. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u40	Farmers have never had as much return on income as with the previous government, and here is the former Minister of Agriculture who has done an excellent job on this subject. There has never been so much innovation, so much creation of the Portugal brand, so much export, opening and creating markets. Minister, what has this government already done on this subject? Does it not know whether or not a set of polytechnics, universities, companies have created innovation in the agri-food sector, which has been exported, as never before, agri-food products, that wine is today a product of the Portuguese brand, that tourism has grown in almost all regions, also the result of reforms and restructurings that have taken place in regional entities and in tourism regions? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, the previous government does not receive lessons, but also does not want to have a sovereign speech on the subject. There is still much to do to value the interior. Mr Minister, in the months leading up to governance, what happens is that the interior is further away from central power, bureaucracy is greater, investments are not seen, unemployment, as you have seen today, broke what was a recovery course that happened with the previous government, you see in your low macroeconomic plans of investments, low employment creation, low exports and I wonder whether this is a threat or not, a red alert to the populations of the interior, for those who want to invest and for those who want to continue to live in the interior. On public transport, you have environmental sustainability policies. The previous government created the Door to Door. What is the policy of public transport within this government? Can you answer that? These are the simple questions that I leave to you, Minister, to understand, once and for all, whether you will repeat the speech that you have been making over the course of six months or if you bring some novelty to the debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u41	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Deputy Minister, it is not possible to speak of the fight against regional asymmetries without referring to the issue of fregueries. The so-called « Administrative Reorganization of the Territory of Freguesias », imposed by PSD and CDS in 2012, deserved widespread challenge and repudiation, with protest actions from north to south of the country and huge popular demonstrations, such as the held in Lisbon, on 31 March 2012.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u44	Under false arguments, PSD and CDS have advanced with the extinction of more than a thousand parish churches, a political option that has resulted in the impoverishment of our democratic regime. From the outset, the CFP opposed this strategy of dismantling democratic local power. The truth is that, contrary to the propaganda then made, the extinction of the parish did not correspond to the strengthening of territorial cohesion. on the contrary, it has resulted in an increase in existing regional asymmetries, because, after the closure of numerous public services throughout the country, there has also been the extinction of fragesias. in rural and inland areas, this was particularly disastrous, because the parish was often the remaining public entity and, with its disappearance, the populations were even more abandoned.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u46	Mr Minister, today there are conditions to reverse this situation and to correct the injustices generated, without the risk of breaking any authentic cycle and with an unequivocal study, which is the will of the local populations and authorities who have spoken on the matter. The draft law proposed by the CFP Parliamentary Group and which entered last week confirms this, since the whole process would culminate in the forthcoming elections. in this sense, it is established the automatic and principled replacement of all extinct frequencies with opposition of deliberative organs called to pronounce. It is also envisaged that, following the experience accumulated by the autarchic bodies, and lived by the people over half of the mandate, the position taken initially be reformulated, whatever was the meaning of the opinion then given. Finally, Mr Minister, another line of analysis. The CFP has always considered that it was not enough to regionalize the country to correct regional asymmetries, but life demonstrates that the development of an intermediate power — regionalisation — is, and continues to be, a necessary condition for effective regional development. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u47	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Under-Secretary-General, allow me to say first of all that the Portuguese Communist Party has scheduled this inquiry on such an important subject as the depopulation of the interior because, in fact, one of the structural problems of the Portuguese economy is precisely related to the serious regional asymmetries in our country. We know that at this level too, things have worsened much in recent years with the policies of the PSD/CDS government, because austerity policies have not only created a recessive framework and high levels of unemployment, not only created poverty and wage cuts or the loss of rights by people, the policies of the former Government have also substantially aggravated regional asymmetries and inequalities. And if it is true that these policies or options of the PSD/CDS government have affected Portuguese in general, it is also true that they have eventually reached even more the populations of the interior regions. Otherwise, the austerity policies have led to the failure of thousands of companies, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and, by drag, thousands of workers to unemployment in regions where there is virtually no job creation. Then came the closures of public services, such as health centres, hospital losses, closure of schools, courts and other services, which substantially aggravated regional asymmetries. Finally, the limitations imposed on local authorities, financial constraints and even interference in the autonomy of local power, which not only hampered the development of their tasks and the response to the needs of the population, as they further aggravated the situation of the interior regions. This is to say no more about the extinction of fragesias, which was another massacre in local power, with serious damage to the populations and which has contributed much to aggravate regional asymmetries. Surely Mr President will agree if I say that the local authorities have been the only front capable of breaking the isolation of the interior. Whatever political force is or has been ahead of the city's destinations, the truth is that local authorities have assumed, and continue to assume, a decisive role to cushion the problem of regional asymmetries. Therefore, local authorities must be freed from the constraints imposed by the PSD/CDS government, but also return the frequencies to the populations. But it is not enough, because the country's balanced and sustained economic development and job creation will certainly be compromised if the policy of channelling Community funds continues to be made for large companies and not reaching micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. More: it is necessary to find answers to the problems of farmers, it is necessary to defend and value family agriculture and the rural world, it is necessary to restore the public services that the previous government has closed — and it has concluded in such order that Mr Hélder Amaral still came with the closing speech, as if we were still talking about the previous government — it is necessary to return the buckets to the shares, which was also another work of the PSD/CDS Government, and it is necessary to look at the protected areas and the classified areas, to preserve nature as something strategic for regional development and national development. Mr Minister, I would like to know what the Government is planning to do, especially in the areas that Mr Minister protects, in order to be able to tackle this serious problem that constitutes regional asymmetries. Mr Minister, when I say « the areas to guard », I am specifically referring to the need to free local authorities from the constraints imposed by the PSD Government and the CDS, but also with regard to the need to return the strawberries to the populations which the PSD/CDS Government has just made disappear. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u49	To request clarification, Mr. Santinho Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Deputy Minister, as a man of the interior I am, wanted to take this time to welcome and even thank the CFP initiative. Territorial cohesion is already a national emergency, so discussing this issue and discussing problems within the country is a patriotic act. over the past decades, with the exception of some exceptions of the responsibility of governments of the Socialist Party, has imposed a wrong view on the interior, its populations, institutions, organizations and resources. The neoliberal right has never had answers to the problems of low-density territories, a vision that disqualifies and devalues the interior regions, highlighting the deficit in economic terms, accessibility and demography. In addition, it is sufficient to recall the previous government that was produding this speech to justify further cuts, closures of public services and the absence of investments. The interior entered a vicious cycle, has less employment and more emigration, aged and falling population, few investments and less consumption, cuts in public services, lack of business dynamism, without anyone stopping this fall to the abyss, to the death of villages and to the stagnation of cities and villages. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u51	We know that only with decentralized public policies, with policies directed to the socio-economic reality of the interior, can we reverse this trend.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u53	The municipalities assume themselves as fundamental structures for the management of public services in a dimension of proximity. The implementation of proximity public services could be an important support to the business sector, organisations and associations. The central and local State must assume responsibility for preventing the depopulation of the interior. in this sense, I question the government about the areas in which public services of proximity can be processed in the interior territories and how to reconcile the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior with municipal autonomy, with the authorities, which are the real engines of local development to this day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u54	For a final request for clarification, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Deputy Minister, to establish population in the territory and to combat depopulation and desertification are essential to the existence of employment, public and private. When there is no employment, people are forced out of their territories and therefore in the last four years of PSD/CDS government we have seen a waste of half a million people who are so lacking in the country and, in particular, the districts affected by the phenomenon of asymmetries and desertification. Therefore, to fix and attract the population it is essential to have economic activity, productive sector, industry and agriculture. And this should exactly correspond to the creation of employment and employment with rights, because it is essential to ensure the valorization of work, thus creating incentives for the establishment of professionals both within the National Health Service, as the PCP has recently proposed, both in other areas. A very important thing is fundamental: that equal work corresponds to equal wages. I would like to give you a concrete example: the call center of EDP in Seia practice wages below those who practice call center in Lisbon. This means, of course, failure to comply with the principle that equal work corresponds to equal pay. Therefore, the exploitation of the territory, the guarantee of employment with rights also requires this: the guarantee and effective monitoring of workers' rights, because the guarantee of decent living and working conditions, fundamental to the establishment of populations, requires an intervention role on the part of the State. Mr Minister, for the CFP, there is no economic and social development without the rights of workers. It's this fight we're fighting, it's this fight we're going to continue. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u56	In reply, Mr Under-Secretary-General has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u57	Mr President, I thank the ladies and gentlemen. Members who had the opportunity to ask questions in this second round. I would particularly like to welcome Mr Hélder Amaral's position, I would say constructively, expressing the agreement on this need to look to the future, to look at what is the need to build a broad convergence around policies for the inside.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u58	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u59	In fact, what we want is to end what has been on the subject for many years. For four years, when talking about the interior, what was at stake was: “What closes this week? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u60	There you are!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u61	« What will close in the coming months? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u62	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u63	What I assure you is that there will be no closure of courts. What will be assured is that justice will be stated in a dimension of proximity, especially in areas that have a greater bearing on the direct interest of people, including areas such as crime or family law, in which trials must be carried out where the facts have occurred. Therefore, the movement of judgements to places over 100 km away, as in some places has happened, will in fact be corrected. In terms of investment, we found zero funds for both companies and municipalities. This is profoundly altered today and nearby investments are a priority in education, health, cultural heritage. That is why transport flexibility is also a fundamental element so that the interior is not a land of abandonment. Synthetically, Mrs. Members, I agree with the importance of, in dialogue with local structures, with the associations of municipalities and parish, discussing what are the evaluation criteria of what was a change to the parishes made from top to bottom, the rule and frame, without taking into account the local will. That is the commitment of the Government Programme that we will honour. But a purely administrative dimension is not enough; it is necessary to promote decent employment within, as in the national territory. Therefore, Mrs Rita Rato, the defence of territorial equality and equality between men and women is a matter that in the world of work we will lead to social consultation by the end of this month so that, for employers and workers, this issue is a priority on the agenda. This is also why we will promote municipal participation, both in local-scale projects and in the enhancement of the participation of inter-municipal communities, in the affirmation of development and territorial cohesion. I believe that the broad agreement needed to return the page to the future—only the PSD has grasped the past—is the basis for a debate that cannot end today, and we thank the CFP for its initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u64	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : There is a central issue in this debate that we want to underline here. The integrated and harmonious development of the country and the fight against regional asymmetries require a profound change in policies and strategic options. The country needs an integrated vision of development with a redistribution of investments and transfers that fill the gaps and lower local incomes. This requires high-impact investment policy on the territory, a key role of the State in the strategic sectors and the development of public infrastructure and equipment networks. Strengthening quality public investment is central to our productive capacity. Employment, the dynamisation of economic activity, Community funds themselves must have a central role in the regional rebalancing. The PSD/CDS-PP governance has resulted in the worsening and deepening of inequalities in the country to a structural and destructive level of the territory. In almost all sectors, processes of reorganization have been converged, it is understood to be closed, of public services units in the National Health Service, in public school, in the regional structures of various ministries — finance, agriculture, economics, etc. — and the results were seen. With the privatisation of TTCs, it was the closure of more and more posts and mail stations, it was the discrimination of tariffs and postal services. With the freezing of investments and the closure of public transport lines and services, of course, in the railway, and not only — and they were not only further away, because the struggle of the people and the workers took hold of them — the inhabitants of the interior were the most penalized. Mrs. Members, the transport of goods must be seen as a structural element of dynamising economic activity and national production and not only as an imported and unloaded commodity flow corridor in national ports. And passenger transport must be seen as a real public service in a logic of national cohesion and not of deresponsibility of the State. For all this, the railway must be understood by the structural role of the territory that can and should assume as a real strategic factor of integrated development of the country and regions. The railway accessibilitys that have been removed with the closure of the lines should be returned to the populations and links should also be studied and prepared that enhance the axes for development with the network effect and cross-border cooperation, allowing the modernisation of the rail network and the accessibility of regions, their populations and production apparatus. This is the meaning that has to be given to the National Railway Plan, which has recently been approved by the Assembly of the Republic. With regard to road accessibility, we would like to stress that for the CFP it is not closed or exceeded the requirement of the populations and regions inside the abolition of tolls in the former SCUT, facing the interests of the economic groups in the PPPs. The proposal of the CFP was rejected in this House last week, but it will continue to be an incontrovertible issue for the future. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The problems that are being felt within the country are deeply serious and complex, but precisely because these problems need to be tackled and boldly advanced for answers and solutions, it is important to affirm and remember that there are no inevitability. We are not condemned to a policy of exploitation, impoverishment and concentration of wealth in half a dozen families and in half a dozen cities, of which we look at a substantial part of the country as if it were a disaster. And the situation that we have today, from the political and institutional point of view, is that of a country that rejected and defeated the former PSD/CDS-PP government and the policies of abandonment of the interior that were imposed for years to come. In fact, as the PCP pointed out in recent Parliamentary Days in the districts of Vila Real and Bragança, within the country, there are not only problems to solve, there is an unparalleled potential for our collective future, there are solutions and there are answers that the country can and should take advantage of for a better life. Therefore, it is important to affirm a development project that requires an alternative policy, disbanding the country of submission and colonization to which it is subject, freeing it from supranational impositions of policies contrary to national interest, the constraints that continue to be placed on its development, and a development project that promotes the valorization of work and workers. There is a need for a radical change in financial and fiscal policies, an administration and public services that are effectively available and at the service of the whole population, guaranteeing the right to health, education, social security, and the recovery of democratic control of the economy. from here we reiterate that it is possible the alternative that has in the hard core of its structural axes the fight against inequalities at the regional level, at the social level, at the economic level. It is this fight against inequalities that we affirm here with a development project that really allows us to resume and design the values of April in the future of Portugal. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u66	The Bureau does not record any registration for requests for clarification, so I give the floor to Mr José Manuel Pureza for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, British Conservative Prime Minister Benjamim Disraeli, speaking about 19th century England, said « England is a country with two countries ». When the effects of economic liberalism caused deeper ruptures and ruptures in British society, Disraeli spoke of two countries. Portugal has long been a country where there are two countries and the austerity policies of recent years have severely aggravated this dichotomy between two countries, between the poor and the rich country, between the coastal country and the interior country, between the country of the towns and the country of the villages. What divides these two countries is the existence or not of conditions for the effective exercise of fundamental rights, the effective presence or not of a network of public services of universal vocation, precisely distributed by the territory of the country. Because of the austerity obsession, the so-called 'aggravation of state fats' became a compressor roll and dragged everything forward: social cohesion, territorial cohesion, it swept away everything. There is a country in which the closure of courts has joined the closure of health units, schools, post offices and other public services, depriving an important part of our citizens of opportunities to be fully human rights. So let's talk about this country and I'll give you two examples. First: because of the closure of the family and minor section in Moura, the only family section and children in the Beja district is in Ferreira do Alentejo, which means that: the population of Barrancos must travel 248 km, go and return, on a journey of 3 hours and 20 minutes; the population of Moura must travel 144 km, go and return, on a journey of 2 hours and 15 minutes; the population of Mértola must travel on a journey of 154 km, go and return, on a journey of 2 hours, plus fuel charges, plus costs and the fact that all this population is predominantly poor. Second example: the courts of Customs of the Faith, Vinhais, Vimios, Carrazeda de Ansiães and Miranda do Douro were all degraded to nearby sections. However, the sections of cable and crime are based in Bragança, which means that: the population of Torre de Moncorvo has to travel 200 km, go and return, on a journey of 2 hours and 50 minutes on its way; the population of Carrazada de Ansienes has to travel 200 km, on a journey of 2 hours and 30 minutes on its way; the population of Freixo de Espada-à-Cinta travels more than 300 km for civil actions and crime, a journey with more than three and a half hours on its way. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the judicial map adopted by the PSD/CDS Government was therefore a very serious part of the interior. We have had a country with two countries for so long. This is our portrait, but we must be one country in justice, health, education, finally, in everyone's right. This is the commitment of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u68	The Bureau does not record entries to request clarification, so we turn to the intervention of Mr André Silva of the NAP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing regional asymmetries, desertification and depopulation in Portugal. But in a country with an almost millennium social union, we lack a medium- and long-term vision, we lack a compass that helps us walk to a society that definitely values people, territory and its resources. We are in no way talking about desertification without talking about one of the largest national pollutants in water resources and soil erosion: intensive farming. For example, according to data from the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, the amount of water involved and needed to produce 1 kg of meat is about 15 000 litres and about 77 kg of fertile soil is lost in the production of 1 kg of meat. Data show that about 36% of our country is at risk of desertification, and 28% of this area is already very affected by this phenomenon. Soils are becoming increasingly impoverished, in degradation and the use of fertilizers and pesticides increases each year. Is this relationship between what we produce and what we consume included in our debates? In parallel and related terms, we maintain the alarm when we do not prioritize food security and sovereignty in Portugal. This topic should be a national design when we equalize the problem of desertification and depopulation, and this is inherently due to the recovery of our soils and water resources. There is knowledge, technology and practices of organic agriculture capable of ensuring this regeneration and, in addition, it is objectively possible and desirable that Portugal can produce in a biological way. Support for synthetic and intensive farming must, of course, cease and be positively discriminated against by implementing, inter alia, a system of taxation to products with high environmental impact. We are also out of the question when we discuss regional asymmetries without talking about a national strategy that contemplates the transformation of our energy network, which is still based on fossil fuels, into a truly clean, sustainable and renewable energy base. Energy independence should be promoted for all citizens and an investment plan to improve public infrastructure that benefits and connects the communities of the interior, the territories of low density. Related to ecological tourism, we also lose sensitivity and reasonableness when we qualify our forests as mere resources. Forest management must be valued and ended at once with the expansion of forest monocultures, whether eucalyptal or pinhais. The indigenous biodiversity is the best tool to combat fires, preventing fires, and therefore strategically planning should be made for autochthonous corridors and forest spots throughout the territory. This put, more than having on the role a national strategy for forests, another strategy for agricultural and agro-industrial effluents, a national action programme to combat desertification, among other administrative measures, must design a project of society and a plan of action...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u70	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u71	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, it is necessary to design a project of society and an action plan that not only stimulates self-sufficiency and greater independence for citizens at food and energy level but also is based on respect for ecosystems and other beings who, with us, inhabit the territory. In conclusion, Mr President, the NAP will continue in a positive way with a strategic vision and rigour to work together with everyone in the transition to this new paradigm: in addition to projecting, it is necessary to implement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u72	Since the Bureau also does not record any registration to request clarification from Mr André Silva, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The inequalities between the coast, more productive and more populous, and the interior, less productive and depopulated, are confirmed by all studies and by all data, although it seems to us that the evidence is of such order that they dispense up to any or any studies to perceive exactly the regional disparities and their dimension. Asymmetries are very sharp and have worsened much in recent years. in this context, what we believe is that policies are needed that not only meet the problem but also assume their response as an absolute priority. We can make the rounds we want to take, but one thing is certain: the defense of the interior and the balanced occupation of the territory are undoubtedly associated with the survival and enhancement of family agriculture. It is imperative to protect the survival of rural communities and it is imperative also to return the buckets to the shares. There is a need for a new look at the territory that is now going through the recovery of public services and the enhancement of local power, with the replacement of the financial resources so that they can develop their respective tasks. The recovery of public services and a policy geared towards the revitalization of regional economies is needed, which implies, from the outset, a quality public investment in order to create development infrastructures, in order to support their productive sectors, in order to promote the diversification of new sectors of activity and the sustainable use of resources. And here it seems to us that the sustainable use of protected areas is of particular importance. And because it is necessary to look at protected areas, classified areas and conservation of nature as strategic assets, not only regional development as well as national development—and taking advantage of the presence of Mr Under-Secretary of State and Environment—I think it is important to know what active policies for the use of protected areas and conservation of nature are intended by the Government to implement in the fight against regional asymmetries. in this sense, I leave here the challenge to Mr. Under-Secretary of State and the Environment so that, having an opportunity, you can talk exactly about the need to have the use of protected areas and the conservation of nature also included in this fight against regional asymmetries.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u74	There are also no entries to request clarification from Mr. José Luís Ferreira. So you have the floor of Mrs Berta Cabral from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Territorial cohesion has gained a growing and renewed interest over recent years and is an important focus of political debate in Portugal. And the truth is that even with the country living a financial emergency situation, arising from the policies of socialist governance that put our country in pre-banking, even so, said, the PSD and the government that led did not cease to promote the integral and cohesive development of our territory, and all the sectoral reforms that were implemented had exactly that cross-sectional concern. It is therefore important to continue this work. We know it's not an easy task. We know that there are no miraculous recipes, but we also know that without appropriate and non-contradictory policies in their effects it will not be possible to achieve the objectives of mitigating regional asymmetries. And unfortunately, the government gives contradictory signs every day. I only give a few examples because time is not much. Does the government compete for national cohesion, giving more power and competence to metropolitan areas, to the detriment of municipalities, adding value and power to whom it already has and giving less value to rural areas of the country? Does the Government value the national territory as a whole, nullifying the reform of water supply on high, ending with the cross solidarity between the different systems, protecting the richest and disadvantaged the poorest and most fragile systems? Does the government promote the development and creation of wealth in low-density territories when it cancels planned investments for those territories, as is the case with dams? Does the Government avoid a country at various speeds when it reverts to the sub-concessions of public transport companies in Lisbon and Porto, genuine rulers of public money, to the detriment of public transport in the country and to the peripheral regions that need such transport? The answer is obviously negative. No, Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretaries, so we're not going anywhere! Thus, it is not built, it is only destroyed and thus there is no long-term project, nor is there any future, for our country. Thus, it only counts the present, a precarious present, designed in accordance with the conveniences of occasion, to ensure the survival of some, little importing the future of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u77	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The reforms carried out by the previous Government, at the level of the environment and the planning of the territory and those we intend to continue to do, are well evidence that cohesion and solidarity are values inscribed in the genetic code and in the genetic matrix of the PSD. in this effort of greater national cohesion, the fight against demographic reduction and low birth rates is also part of this. And here I would like to recall that it was through the report promoted by the PSD, By a Portugal friend of children, families and birth(2015 - 2035 ), coordinated by Professor Joaquim Azevedo, that several initiatives and debates were launched, which resulted in various legislative changes in order to benefit the birth and populations of the interior. It is therefore important to continue this collective effort and promote an integrated development model which, by decentralising and fulfilling the principle of subsidiarity, economically enhances the resources of the low-density territories, including the Autonomous Regions, which also have asymmetries within them, creating and setting value and employment. But the decentralisation for us is no longer giving power to Lisbon and Porto; on the contrary, it only accentuates asymmetries. In fact, it seems that the old and retrograde maxim of « Portugal is Lisbon, the rest is landscape! » is back with this government. It is therefore urgent to act on the most disadvantaged territories, and it was for this purpose that the PSD presented, in the context of the discussion of the PNR (National Reform Programme), a draft resolution with 39 measures, including the definition of the status of low density territories. in the follow-up to this measure, proposed and approved in this Parliament, it is good to remember, I can even announce — I am pleased to announce in this House — that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present, at very short notice, a bill that aims exactly to consecrate and create the Statute of the Low Density Territories. [[PSD applause.]] An open document to the discussion of all the party forces of this Assembly of the Republic, without forgetting the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the National Association of Freguesias and all the social partners, in order to find comprehensive and consensual solutions that effectively respond to the problems these territories face, because that is what it is to talk about the future, that is to have the concern of developing our country in a comprehensive and solidarity manner. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u78	This must be a national design, a design for which we are all summoned and no one is dispensed. This is the work we want to do for the future, because it is the future that we are interested in. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u79	With no registrations for requests for clarification, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Minister, the Portuguese Communist Party brings the debate to an issue which is certainly not new, indeed, perhaps one of the matters with the oldest debate in Parliament: what we do and what we have to do in relation to what is the articulated and harmonious development of the whole country. With regard to the question of the interior, I must say to you, Minister, by supporting what has already been said by Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS, that I can endorse, without any problem and almost entirely, the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 3 / 2016, because virtually everything is said here. And, as Mrs Berta Cabral said earlier, we must have a consensus on this matter and we must all be called to the same question. in the 90s of the last century, until a little earlier, still beginning in the 80s, the great bet of the country was the placement of the population in urban areas. We had too many population in rural areas. This was the policy followed, it was followed for too long and it was a wrong policy for me. And today, perhaps, we're seeing that it was wrong. Now, today, we all have to be summoned for this, and many of the opinions that have been given here today are valid, but all of them are necessary. But here is a question which, in my view, cannot fail to be the first, the fundamental. We have heard here, a little while ago, that over the years—and perhaps no government has stopped doing so—they have closed down services where they have come to the conclusion that they do not need them. Why didn't you need it? Because they had no people; because they had no people! This is one of the main problems. What did you say to me a set of teachers from a college of sociology a few days ago? I was told that people either stay or change land for two reasons: either because they have work, or because they have no work, or because they fall in love.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u81	Oh...! Mr. Deputy is a romantic!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u82	And when they fall in love, if they don't have work, they often disappear, because they can't live only from passion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u83	There have been many 'dispassions'!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u84	So, the fundamental thing is there's work for people, there's work for people. And, in our opinion, Mr Minister and Mr. members of the government, employment is done with companies. This is the way to get a job. It is also done with some public employment, because after that it is necessary to have public services to support this economic activity, but in our view it is done with companies. And that's where we have to have that job. So I think that what we have to do is what we started a few years ago: start to create in rural areas, in the interior areas, reasons for people to stay there, whether in agriculture, in the tourism area or in the tourism sectors that have sustainability in the interior — ecotourism, enoturism, kinetic tourism. There are a set of activities that can only occur inside, but we have to enhance these activities and that is what it is essential to do. Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Mr. Today, more than anything else, it is important that this debate leads us to raise awareness - that we have some reasons to be together; and Mrs Berta Cabral said 'all'. We may not all have the same opinion, but perhaps everyone's opinion can contribute to the well-being of all, and that is what in democracy we have to be able to do. The issue of the desertification of the interior has been more marked in time of democracy and democracy cannot allow us, nor will the people allow us, that we be unjust in this matter and, above the territorial cohesion, Mr President and Mr Minister, must above all be social cohesion. Even these small minorities, who persist in resisting inside,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u85	Mr. Abel Baptista, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u86	... they need our solidarity, but they also need to have political consensus that they are able to be motivating to others also go inside and feel that this solidarity is greater than economic solidarity, which they also need. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u87	As there is also no record of any request for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council for Development and Cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I would like to leave just a few brief words on the issue here today in order to reaffirm what seems obvious but does not always seem to be understood by everyone. Territorial development is made from an interaction, which is dynamic and mutual, between two realities. On the one hand, the quality of the territories develops from the quality of the surrounding and the quality of the infrastructures that determine its attractiveness and this attractiveness depends on the quality of the services, infrastructures — the infrastructures of an educational nature, of a social nature and of a scientific and technological nature, not to mention others, not wanting to be exhaustive. And, of course, it depends on the attractiveness of the territory and this attractiveness will depend on the ability to attract business investment, whether private or even public. Those who do not understand that the two dimensions are important for the competitiveness of the territories, do not understand how the most dynamic regions have grown in the European context,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u90	... he did not devote himself to the study, he did not devote himself to the analysis of how a positive dynamic is created, a contribution game so that in fact there are territories that can produce and create wealth, which as such can be distributed, and maintain overall balance of the territory of a State. Therefore, the PT2020, naturally aligned, now more recently more clearly, with the National Reform Programme, could not fail to bear in mind this dimension and could not fail to bear in mind that the Government has from the outset taken the initiative to create a mission unit of appreciation of the territory, where it is intended to create and, above all, to outline an action plan that, in a systemic way, in a cross-sectional way, addressed this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u91	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u92	however, we could not, nor can we, wait for this mission unit to produce its reports. We understand with Mr Deputy Minister here a situation which is clear: in the PT2020 we were not given the opportunity to wait. They did not give us an opportunity to wait because the PT2020 was in a situation of total blockade and we could not wait any longer and, as such, we agreed with the Deputy Minister that we would, of course, articulate the intervention and implementation of the measures, but that we would continue to apply everything that was already outlined, drawn up and negotiated within the framework of the PT2020, and that is what we did. We started by companies, by supporting companies. I did not want to mention again the numbers that have been presented and evaluated in this House several times, but since doubts remain in this matter, I would only refer in a very brief way, some of them. Starting point: payments to companies. When we took possession there were payments to a company and the amount of payments was EUR 4 million. at present, we have payments to 1500 companies and payments are EUR 165 million. I do not want to refer to the EUR 100 million intermediate target, which we have exceeded, as we have had the opportunity to take account in due course. The EUR 165 million is in line with the EUR 450 million we intend to reach at the end of this year, which places EUR 150 million above the same period of QREN, thus materializing, in this area of companies, the aim of which the Government has proposed to speed up the implementation of the QREN in this area. But, as I said, within the framework of the QREN objectives, I would just like to mention another number: 20 % of the values approved so far under the QREN (referred to, 20 % of the approved values) refer to the most disadvantaged regions and, among these approved projects (and Mr Hélder Amaral will forgive me for correcting me as to information which, perhaps, does not hold) the projects of Embraer, the initials of installation, were approved in the time of the former Government of the Socialist Party and these most recent ones have already been approved in March of this year, i.e. at the present time of this Socialist Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, it would only begin to give a few more figures in relation to the front of public investment and the front of municipal investment, the investment that will, in fact, make the difference in that qualification of the territory. As for the Pacts for Development and Territorial Cohesion, we have contracted with the municipalities, in terms of strategy, EUR 1100 million, to develop the territorial development strategies, and we have contracted, said, with the CIM (Intermunicipal Communities) in February this year — I repeat, in February this year. of this value, 38 %, approximately 40 % refers to interior areas. Inland areas have three times the per capita support of the coastal regions. [[And that's what it must be!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u93	We fully agree, that is what it must be. Therefore, with regard to the Strategic Urban Development Plans, which we are going to sign this month of May, this is a very close value of EUR 1000 million. Here too, 30 % of the value refers to inside areas. Here, per capita is slightly lower for what they mean, because these are urban development projects, and here too there is positive discrimination in relation to the interior areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u94	Mr Secretary of State, Mr Norberto Patinho has entered for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u95	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the issues of territorial equity, equal opportunities and cohesion are of the greatest importance for the country's balanced and fair development. And, after four years of policies that have led to the abandonment of the interior and to accentuate regional inequalities, I want, in the person of VV. Ex., congratulate the Government on how, recognizing the problem, seeks to give answers and fight development asymmetries, which are strongly unjust to the people. I am in this House elected by the electoral circle of Évora, a district which, like the Alentejo, in general, is representative of the problems that lie within it — the depopulation, the ageing of populations, the inability to fix young people — which, being structural, have been aggravated very negatively in the last four years. But, Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretarys, I would like to express to you that government action brought to the Alentejo a new hope. in the municipality where I was autarch for three decades, I watched and tried to resist the closure of a court in a building built a few years earlier, thus making it difficult, or even preventing, the access of citizens to justice. The signs we have are that the same will reopen, approaching the justice of the citizens, finally returning to normality. Positive signs have been given in the area of health, where, in the municipality where I live, there has become a better response, with the completion of the tables with medical and nursing staff and the consequent stability. The health center will become available as a dentist, allowing for improved response to the population in this area. They are signs of hope, signs that, together with a clear respect for the autonomy of the local power, realized in the State Budget, and a decentralizing position of the current government, allow us to brighten the hope of a joint response and complement the challenges posed in the fight against the negative effects of interiority. Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretaries, in the interior, in the rural world, the parish is the last hand that populations can resort to. Against the will of the people, against the deliberations of legitimately representative local bodies, a majority in this House, without the mandate of its constituents to do so, decided to extinguish some of these fregueses. It is essential to assess and review this situation. Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretaries, Community funds can and should be a decisive instrument in combating asymmetries and a lever for the enhancement of the interior. In part, the Secretary of State has already answered the questions I bring to ask you. Question: Despite the long-standing legacy of the previous government, what is the situation in the implementation of the Regional Operational Programmes ( Regional Operational Programmes ), the Pacts for Development and Territorial Cohesion, the PEDUs and the PARUs ( Urban Regeneration Action Plans )? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u96	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Development and Cohesion has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u97	Mr President, thank you very much for the question. Very quickly, I would like to make the point. As for the cohesion pacts, the competitions for school infrastructure, health and cultural heritage will be launched, the contracts will be decided and approved for all projects entered into by March of this year and will be followed-CL by the end of the year by all regional POs. Projects of both the PEDUs and the PRUs will be in competition during this month of May at an amount close to EUR 1000 million, as I announced. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u98	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that we have no illusion regarding this coastal/internal dichotomy. The inequalities, which remain serious, do not place the coastal cities safe in their own interiors, made of suburbanization, segregations and deep social fractures. But it must be said that this dichotomy is gaining a huge scale at national level. We have seen : since 2001 more than 7000 public schools have been eliminated. The number of public schools in operation in the 2001 / 2002 school year was 13,753, decreasing to 6575, in 2013 / 2014. The central and northern regions have lost most schools: 32 % and 45 % of the total number of extinctions, respectively, in particular in the interior territories. We talked about the teaching and the impact that cutting policies have had on the inside, but we could address this subject in the same way, in health, in justice, in transport and in mobility, in public investment, etc. The socio-economic situation of the interior territories stems from political options and does not result in any inherent weakness or disability of these geography. The growth model favored the concentration of markets where the reproduction of capital is faster and more intensive, deprotecting the territories and populations where population density is lower, with profound negative consequences at the level of territorial and social cohesion, the environment and national economic development itself, which it was thought possible to dispense this development two thirds of our territory. The result is in sight: it is recognised today that 164 municipalities in the interior of the continent are at risk of depopulation, without demographic muscle and without economic muscle to develop and without conditions for their populations to have levels of quality of life identical to those in the rest of the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u100	Enough of palliatives and pious declarations about the interior regions. We don't need to approach the interior of the coast. This has been the intent of this strategic error, repeated in recent decades. Where Portugal 2020 funds are given priority to enterprises — and certain enterprises — which are obviously harming the interior, where business networks are less dense and with less capacity to raise these funds. When the interior is seen as mere territories through the communication infrastructures, such as the railway, the interior is damaged and subjected to the coastal investment strategies. We don't need to approach the interior of the coast. You can see: when, for example, much of the interior is talked about to build dams that will produce energy to be consumed in large metropolises, without any significant positive impact in those regions where they will be built, but with a high environmental impact in these territories, you are harming the interior and creating a false illusion of development at the service of investment strategies on the coast. We want the interior to be where it is, but to be able to have its own development and articulation strategy with all other regions and with Europe, but without dependence on coastal investment strategies. And, in this perspective, we welcome the Government and the Government's initiatives to enhance the interior territories and the measures that have been taken to that end.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u101	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u102	But we also want to say equally frankly that if the metropolitan areas are entitled to elect their own organs, the rest of the territory will not want more or less than that and will certainly not accept less than that. It is therefore necessary to give democratic legitimacy and capacity for strategic determination and development also to the peoples and territories of the interior. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u103	Mr António Costa Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u104	Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Mr Minister, a little respect for the Portuguese and the efforts they have made in recent years, I think there was nothing wrong with this government. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u105	And a little democratic humility also didn't hurt you. It is that the government and the parties that support it continue to suffer from a strong blackout, particularly with regard to the bad socialist governance, bankruptcy, the troika that you have brought and that others have had to leave.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u106	You called her!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u107	It's funny, whoever hears the PS and the government in this Assembly of the Republic is amazed, because linguistic creativity is fascinating. We already knew that cuts went to sectoral savings, austerity is restrictions, giving up is evolution — it is amazing! Now, they call elections what they want to do in the CCDRs — it's fascinating! CCDR elected by the authorates, the judges concerned themselves, in the environment, in the planning of the territory, in the Community funds, in the legal opinions they give to the local authorities — it is curious! By now, there are several months of this government's existence, and we are waiting for some concrete initiatives—even little at all, to show something. Specialized in announcements of millions and more million. It is always the same million, it is the million that the previous government has negotiated with Brussels of Portugal 2020 — and it is there in the National Reform Programme. What did you inherit? They inherited 93 % of the Community funds for convergence regions. That is an undeniable reality. What shows us beyond a strong centralisation of the funds? Where are the policies for low density? Let us see, then, when is the opening of tenders for low-density territories? When will the opening of the competitions for urban regeneration? When do competitions open for sustainable mobility? When do competitions open for energy efficiency? For when are the money for the most degraded neighborhoods? For when is the cultural and natural heritage? By the time the implementation of the DLBC ( Local Development of Community Base ) projects, whose contracts you have signed with Mr. Prime Minister three months ago in Ponte de Sor, projects for microenterprises in rural territories? [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] When is the contract with the CIM? For when competitions for the AAEL ( Business and Logistics Hosting Areas )? It is that you have criticized and are now in power for almost six months and we have not seen anything yet.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u108	You're very demanding!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u109	Now, do you remember that it was the previous government that opened invitations to tender so that companies in the low-density territories could negotiate the amounts they are now presenting? Such Plan 100 derives from the tenders submitted by the previous Government. Do you also remember that it was the previous government that advanced with the Higher Programme for the Universities and Polytechnics of the Interior? Do you remember that it was the previous government that opened invitations to tender for the Centres of Excellence, to which you are not even giving continuity at this time, particularly for the Universities of Évora and the Beira Interior? [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u110	That's the reality. They didn't even evaluate it! They didn't even want to evaluate, and then they come to talk about the interior and the low density! But they have not forgotten to reverse the concessions of public transport in large cities and the significant amounts that this will cost the Portuguese. You speak, you speak, you always announce the same million, as I have already told you. They deceive the Portuguese. Just to remember: you announced EUR 1400 million for urban regeneration through social security funds. They corrected, so that the misfortune was not so great, to 500 million euros. Where are these millions going to be spent? We already know: in Lisbon and Porto, in the main cities. We need to get rid of investment, because so far it has been zero! Public investment for 2016 has fallen and, as far as private investment is concerned, you have fled. Therefore, in the case of this government, it is not enough to appear, it must be. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u111	With no registrations for requests for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During the PCP Parliamentary Days, held in the districts of Vila Real and Bragança, we once again found the great asymmetries between the coast and the interior in relation to the supply, quality and access to public services and social functions of the State. The result of successive government policy options and particularly the latest PSD/CDS government, we witness the degradation and destruction of essential public services and the social functions of the State, with the aim of privatizing. These options have reached more deeply the interior of the country, impoverishing it, exacerbating inequalities and weakening even more those who need it. in the interior, with regard to health, it is too evident and worrying the closure of services, the loss of hospitals valences and the lack of health professionals in all areas, which make it increasingly difficult to access users to the National Health Service and the provision of quality health care. To minimize the serious implications of providing health care to populations, the PCP presented a bill to allocate incentives to fix doctors in the areas in need. The educational policies carried out by the PSD and the CDS were guided by the destruction of the public school, due to its underfunding and closure of schools, which forced children to large displacements, with all that this implies in terms of fatigue and lack of study time, also aggravated by the shortage of transport, and led to the creation of mega groupings and the lack of requalification, the devaluation of education professionals and the lack of respect for their labour rights. Public higher education suffers from chronic underfunding that prevents it from forming a regional development pole. PSD and CDS imposed a concentration of court valences in district capitals, degrading the other courts, preventing citizens from accessing justice, even by increasing costs associated with travel. It is important to go through the opposite direction and return to the people what has been subtracted from them, stealing their dignity and quality of life. This is the path that the PCP will follow. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u113	Not registering requests for clarification, Mr. Manuel Frexes, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I welcome the CFP for this initiative, until it should promote consensus rather than conflict. With due respect for all the interventions, one thing I am sure about this debate is that it is not using the interior as a political-party weapon that we solve the problems of the interior or the problems of territorial cohesion and social cohesion. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u115	It happens that the country is full of diagnoses, evaluations, studies or observatories, questions or interpelations. The viability of this country will certainly go through the capacity that we have to act, not to reflect any more. Portugal needs an action plan, not a mission unit. Portugal has to assume as a national plan the repopulation of the interior. It is necessary and necessary to unite and act around a common path, which goes through the creation of the status of low density territories. for the first time in the history of this country, someone did something concrete, in addition to the casuistic, to reverse the national macrocephaly. The former government, led by the PSD, created low-density territories. In close cooperation with the National Association of Municipalities, it was unanimously approved by the authorities of several party sensibilities, a map that establishes which municipalities are considered to be low density. The former government, for the first time in history, has already legislated in favour of these territories, creating concrete measures in favour of these regions, in particular in subsidies and increases in areas such as the establishment of doctors, Community funds or public and private investments. This was an absolutely decisive step to reverse the constant ignorance or assistanceist relationship of these territories. But we want more: we want to establish the status of low-density and high potential territories; we want to define with force of law, and in a logic of permanence and permanence, the definition of a regional competitive model that enables us to respond to the needs of rebalancing Portugal, betting on three strategic vectors, namely, on the demographic issue, on the economic and fiscal issue and, finally, on the social issue. Working for true social cohesion is a challenge that calls for the effective will of all Members of this House, as well as for consistency in the implementation of legislative mechanisms. For this purpose of national charity we invite all to participate, because, Caros and Caros Sr. Members, the interior is also Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u116	For an intervention, Mr Under-Secretary of State and the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Given the lack of time, I will refer to an issue which has been raised by some Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of mobility. For this I would like to recover a statement made here by Mr Bruno Coimbra's PSD Member, who reminded us that there is a very big difference between saying and doing. To this end, I will illustrate with three themes on which the PSD/CDS Government has said but has not done, themes that have to do with mobility, which, as you will know, will be known. Members, it is absolutely instrumental for an interior development project. The former Government has published the legal regime of the public passenger transport service. This previous regime - and this government said - in writing - a measure of the most important in terms of decentralization, as it passed the role of the IMT, centralized transport authority, to the municipalities and inter-municipal communities. Because the truth is that this process of decentralization has to be done. Therefore, the previous government said but did not and this process of decentralization is currently being implemented by the current government. Then it was already recalled here by Mr Hélder Amaral that the previous government created the Porta a Porta programme, which was no longer a electoralist measure, an absolutely pilot process, in which it did not put a toston. The fact is that the Porta a Porta programme assumed that it was a structural change, which was the creation of flexible transport directed precisely to low-density regions, in particular to the regions of the interior. Again, the previous government said but did not. Good news, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the current government that already has in the legislative circuit the diploma that will enshrine the possibility of low-density municipalities can launch flexible transport processes. Finally, there is the question of electric mobility. The PSD/CDS Government has issued a decree-law within which the pilot vehicle charging network should cover 93 municipalities. The truth is that what we found was a network that does not pass from the 46 municipalities and it was the current government that unlocked the situation, currently being manufactured 146 chargers, normal and fast, that will be installed just to meet this design of having a charging network that, according to the PSD / CDS diploma, reaches 93 municipalities. Mrs. Members, the current government will not stay here, leaving the announcement and the promise that, until the end of the legislature, the public electric vehicle charging network will reach all Portuguese municipalities, which means that it will also reach the municipalities of the interior, as it is imposed. Thus, at the end of the Legislature there will be a public charging network of electric vehicles with 1604 normal loading points and 50 fast loading points. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u118	We are now moving to the closing stage of our work, the first intervention by the CFP, by Mr António Filipe, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : In this appeal to the Government, we are aware of the reality of an increasingly unequal country. Inequities have been increasingly accentuated, not only in the obscene imbalance between the rich, increasingly rich, and the poor, who are increasingly and increasingly poor, but also with the emphasis of regional asymmetries, which seeks their causes in many years of options contrary to the interests of the country and the people, of cuts in public investment, of destruction and abandonment of national production, of closure of essential public services. Regret the sharpness of regional asymmetries is a common place. Everyone regrets the depopulation and desertification of the interior, but what has to be assumed is that aging, impoverishment and depopulation of the interior of the country do not have natural causes. There is no curse that weighs on the interior of the country that has no explanation in policies contrary to the balanced development of the country and the interest of the populations. The right-wing policies that have expelled the populations from the interior of the country, one to the coast, another to the foreign, have led to the closure of essential public services with the false idea that there are no populations that justify it, when what is happening is exactly the opposite. People are expelled from the interior of the country because they do not have the conditions to stay there.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u121	The lack of population is not a cause of depopulation, it is a consequence. The causes lie in the deindustrialization of the country, in the lack of support for family agriculture, in the absence of incentives to fix populations, in the closure of schools, health services, courts, social security balconies, and even freguesias. The policies of impoverishment that the PSD and the CDS have imposed on the country over the past four years have left a framework of economic and social devastation, unemployment, recession, forced emigration, breakdown of social cohesion, precarious work and life, abandonment of populations, impoverishment of the vast majority to the benefit of the illegitimate enrichment of a few. The closure of schools continued and intensified, leaving thousands of children and young people to many miles of school. Extensions, health centres and hospital valences were closed, making access to health more difficult for the poorest, older populations and with greater displacement difficulties. Public postal services and social security balconies have been closed. Railway lines were removed and the supply of public road transport was degraded. Road tolls essential for mobility of persons and for the transport of goods were imposed. Courts were closed and county headquarters were concentrated in district capitals, making access to effective judicial protection by large layers of the population even more inaccessible. Hundreds of frequencies were extinguished, by imposing an arbitrary fusion process and contrary to the will and interest of the populations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This situation of abandonment and depopulation of much of the country must be stopped, on behalf of the social cohesion and equality between the Portuguese. The phase we live in national political life must be a turning point. The Portuguese do not accept that their expectations are frustrated in the name of supposed inevitability that prevents the changes that the development of the country urgently demands. Reducing regional asymmetries, countering desertification and depopulation of the territory are objectives that require an integrated development policy, based on the defence of public services of proximity (health, education, justice, social support), the enhancement of national production and support for the productive sectors, which take into account the modernisation and enhancement of rail and road transport and which ensures a public transport network capable of guaranteeing the right to mobility of populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u123	in this appeal to the Government we want to reaffirm that the CFP assumes its responsibilities before the country and remains faithful to the commitments it has made to the Portuguese people. on the days preceding this inquiry, the PCP Parliamentary Group presented a set of legislative projects with a significant impact on combating regional asymmetries. The CFP Parliamentary Group proposed the establishment of a scheme of incentives for the establishment of doctors in areas identified as lacking, in particular through the professional, social and remuneration of doctors, respect for their rights, appreciation of medical careers and their promotion and qualification of working conditions in health centres and hospitals. The PCP Parliamentary Group has submitted a draft law aimed at replacing the extinct frigates by decision of the PSD Government / CDS-PP where such replacement corresponds to the will expressed by the populations. There is no proposal for a legislative measure made by the rule and framework and insensitive to the feelings of the peoples and the local bodies. In view of the devaluation of the democratic local power made by the PSD Government / CDS-PP, this is necessary in this year in which 40 is celebrated. the anniversary of the first free elections for local authorities bodies, is the statement that the balanced development of the national territory is inseparable from the appreciation of the role of local democratic power and the democratic participation of citizens in the exercise of power.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u125	Finally, the CFP Parliamentary Group announces the presentation, still this week, of a legislative initiative aimed at redressing the negative consequences of the judicial map imposed by the PSD/CDS-PP government, which has always had the strong opposition from the CFP and which has moved citizens further away from the judicial protection of their rights, leaving vast areas of the amputated territory of the application of justice, adding travel costs to the citizens, moving them away from the courts and resolving community disputes in the community itself, further damaging citizens with less economic resources. The CFP reaffirms the objective, which it has always defended, that there is no country council where there is no generic court of competence in civil and criminal matters, and will continue to fight for this objective to be achieved in this legislature. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u126	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u127	I shall conclude by saying that the courts which have been closed must be reopened. The courts that have been transformed into proximity sections must reassume the completeness of their judicial functions. The courts of the old comarcas must regain their generic competence in civil and criminal matters and there should be no council of the country which does not have its court. Those who have already had should have again; those who have never had to. The country cannot be condemned to the backwardness and our fair aspiration to the balanced development of the national territory cannot be limited to the mere replacement of what has already existed, it must be translated into new steps towards progress and the creation of more dignified living conditions for the entire population. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u128	To close the debate, Mr Under-Secretary-General has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are closing a debate that will value Parliament, placing the centrality of the interior, territorial cohesion, sustainable development that guarantees conditions of equality, decent employment and growth as a duty that all sovereignty bodies mobilize and that must respond to the aspirations of all Portuguese. Therefore, on behalf of the Government, I welcome both the CFP Parliamentary Group and the initiative that has provided us with the evaluation of a wide range of issues surrounding the promotion of the interior, around the correction of regional asymmetries, which we had this afternoon to do, knowing that this debate does not end here. It must point out that it is at the top of the Government's priorities so that the interior is seen as an opportunity space, as a real development front open to what is the proximity to Europe, to the great Iberian market. A second note that I would like to address to the Inter-Pelent Party is to open up, with an understanding of the constructive dimension of a set of proposals in the areas of health, the administrative organization, the justice that were mentioned during the debate and reiterated by Mr António Filipe in the closing intervention. There is here a common matrix of appreciation of equality in access to public services, a matrix of appreciation of proximity governance, a matrix of respect for the local will we register and of which we share. Certainly, the parliamentary debate will find the best answers to this sense which is common in all areas that have been expressly stated. We are in a legislature that has already allowed the adoption of a State budget which has represented a turn-around in respect of respect for local autonomy, in terms of contracting, in terms of access to financing for development, in terms of local decision-making on the use of fiscal instruments to support development. This turn of page allows today a real relationship of trust with the municipalities and with the parish around decentralization, around the affirmation of the principle of subsidiarity, around a concrete work for local development. Allow me, understanding what was the constructive intervention of the generality of the PS banks, the PCP, the Left Block, of the Ecological Party « The Greens », also highlights the intervention of Mr. Abel Batista, who expressed full agreement with the principles referred to in Resolution No. 3 / 2016, which states what should be the great convergence around the appreciation of the interior. I cannot but share this statement which I have heard that the reasons that lead us to view the interior as a space of opportunity should be multiple. In fact, an internal relationship of rhetoric is not enough; it is necessary to affirm an opportunity, a political priority, a priority of action that mobilizes the best of public policies and the best of the ability to mobilize private investment. And that is why we pay so much attention to the placement within research and development units, that is why we value the return of priority to science and knowledge, being the role of the policymakers and universities of the interior decisive in this strategy. Urban-rural similarities are fundamental for sustainable development and for the competitiveness of the interior, and that is also why the incentive for young people to be set in the interior requires that the public careers developed there have instruments of valorisation and encouragement for the placement of qualified frameworks in the interior, in addition to being valued in the projects for cross-border cooperation and the use of resources within Portugal 2020, the ability to set investment, to create decent jobs within the interior. This vision is that we should mobilize everyone inside as a space of opportunity and not as a space of abandonment, as a space in which discussion is always what the next service that will close, what the next company that will be abandoned; on the contrary, what we guarantee is that every time we speak of a transformation in the structure of the public organization it will be to improve the quality of public service within, each time we speak in the modification of a system of support for private investment will be to mobilize resources inside, to put them in what is the area of the country closest to the European markets, closer to the center of the Iberian market, which is not a landscape, a space of romantic affirmation but, yes, a space of opportunity, of cohesion, an opportunity for development. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-11.u130	Mr. Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the request presented by the CFP is over. Our work will be resumed tomorrow, for 15 hours, with five points on the agenda, and the first is the joint debate of draft resolutions 229 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to encourage the development of university sport ( PSD ), 309 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government public policies supporting university sport ( BE ). of the second item on the agenda is the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 164 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by establishing a legal status of animals ( PS ), 171 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Civil Code recognizing animals as sensitive beings ( PAN), 224 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Legal Statute for Animals in the Civil Code ( PSD ) and 227 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by assigning a Legal Statute to Animals ( BE ). in the third item of the agenda we will discuss together, in general, the projects of lein.o 173 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Strengthens the animal sanctions regime ( amends the Penal Code ) ( PAN ), 209 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amended thirty-seventh to the Criminal Code by revising the penal system for pets ( PS ) and 228 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Review the sanctions regime applicable to crimes against animals ( BE ). of point 4 is the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 228 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of structured support for informal caregivers as well as the creation of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver ( CDS-PP ), 235 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the regulation of the profession of gerontologist ( BE ), 304 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — by strengthening support for informal caregivers ( PCP ), 306 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver ( PS ), 308 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to support informal caregivers and approve their status ( PSD ), 310 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Creates the Statute of the Informal Caregiver ( BE ) and 311 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Strengthening the number of public beds in the National Network of Integrated Continued Care and the National Network of Palliative Care (BE). In the fifth and last items of the agenda, the projects of lein.o 229 / XIII ( 1 ) will also be under discussion. ( a ) — Amends and partially repeals Decree-Law No 154 / 2013 of 5 November establishing the system for monitoring investment projects, eliminating the figure of projects of potential national interest ( PIN) ( The Greens) and 223 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — prohibits the use of the territory included in the RN and RN to real estate projects of the National PotentialInteresse Projects ( PIN ) which do not meet the criteria and purposes of their classification ( PCP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the sitting closed. [[It was 17 hours and 47 minutes.]]
