ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government — whom I welcome — are open to the sitting. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities who open the galleries, please. Before we begin the 15-year debate with Mr Prime Minister, I give the floor to Mr Secretary to proceed with the reading of the file. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have taken part in the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, various legislative initiatives: motions for resolutions Nos 12 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Cape Verde signed in the city of Praia on 30 March 2004 which falls to 2. the Commission, and 13 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves Protocol No 15 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, open for signature in Strasbourg, 24 June 2013 which falls to 2. the Commission in connection with 1. a ; Bill No 24 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 61 / 2014 of 26 August adopting the special scheme applicable to deferred tax assets; the projects of lein 267 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revokes the tip of teaching Portuguese abroad ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 of 11 August 2006 ) ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 268 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Vegetarian plant in the public canteens ( The Greens ). The draft resolutions Nos 370 / XIII ( 1 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — It proposes measures for the installation and operation of the Centre for the Promotion and Valuation of the Plateau Plateau ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 371 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by the necessary and urgent requalification of the National Road No 238, in the section linking Cernache do Bonjardim, Sertã, the Ferreira do Zezere ( Os Verdes ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 372 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Promotes inspection actions to ascertain and guarantee the quality of the public passenger transport service provided by Transports Sul do Tejo ( TST ) ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 373 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take legislative and training measures to reduce the high number of deaths involving agricultural or forestry tractors ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 374 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Lyon ( President of the HR ), 375 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — the creation of a public entity responsible for planning, research, defining the strategies and operationalization of the public response to drug addiction and alcoholism ( CFP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 376 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Monitoring and monitoring of hydrocarbon exploration and research processes in Algarve and Costa Alentejana ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 377 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend the young lease programme Porta 65 ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u3	Like the ladies. Members know from our agenda today is the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. It is therefore my duty to give the floor to the interlocutor of the party who will ask questions first, which is the CFP. For that, I ask you. Members working with the Bureau to create the right hearing conditions for us to hear the first speaker. You have the floor, then, to ask questions, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, for your present time, the first matter I wanted to address is about the General Deposit Box and its recapitalisation. I wanted to start by saying that on the PCP side we will not spare any effort to defend Box as a public bank or to denounce the objectives of the campaign that the PSD is running against Box precisely because it is a public bank. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]] The PSD has sought, in all ways, to reach the Box so that it becomes easier to privatize it or for its recapitalisation to be transformed into an opportunity to create business or market for the private bank. They're talking about the Box's problems as if they were today and had nothing to do with it. They ask questions about what they know very well and know as if they were not also responsible for policy options and guidelines. They talk at fact-finding committees and mix the Box with private bank scandals to create the idea that public or private does so much. They raise doubts and suspicions about the actual recapitalisation needs of the Box and the source of its problems, even to the point of omitting that some of the problems that are currently coming to the top should have been solved by the PSD/CDS government in the recapitalisation made in 2012 and at that time they chose to ignore them. We know well that the purpose of the PSD is to reach the Box as a public bank and we will not give to this petition, but we want to seriously discuss the recapitalization of the Box. So, Mr Prime Minister, I ask you the following: what is the real need for the recapitalisation of the Box already established by the Government? To what extent does the need for the recapitalisation of the Box result from the requirements of the ECB and the Banco de Portugal for strengthening capital ratios? And to what extent does it result from the real problems in the Box? What are the problems that this cash recapitalization will have to face and that should have been faced in the 2012 recapitalisation and not? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u5	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u6	Good afternoon, Mr. President, whom I particularly greet, and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we have set a very clear objective. We want a General Deposit Box 100 % public, 100 % state and 100 % qualified with the capital needed to carry out its function: ensuring the savings of families, financing the economy and being a stability factor of our financial system. in this context, and completed the mandate of the current administration, we invited a personality to preside over the General Deposit Box. We have worked and have been working with this personality in drawing up a capitalisation and business plan programme for the Box and are negotiating its viability in Brussels and so far the negotiations have been successful. Therefore, very soon — I am convinced of this — we will have a clear and precise notion of what the necessary resources for the Box are and we will not contribute, as we have not contributed, to feed speculations about the funds that are necessary for the Box. It is important, above all, to distinguish very diverse situations. First distinct situation: the capital reinforcement needs of the Box resulting from a regulatory framework, which is increasingly demanding and will continue to become more demanding, at least until 2017. This is a portion that corresponds to the need to strengthen capital in order to meet the strengthening needs of instruments imposed by regulatory entities. Second distinct situation: capital needs for investment by Box. Third totally different situation: the need of the Box, like that of other banking entities, have to deal with their inequalities, not pretending that there is no but finding an effective solution for them. There are three distinct situations, from their temporal incidence: the need to secure the legally required capital is immediate; the need for investments is mediated and develops throughout the four- and five-year business plan; finally, the other depends heavily on the solution found in the banking system as a whole in order to respond to a need for which I have insisted and it is necessary to respond, which is the need not to hide or ignore the inequalities so that the Box can, without losing capital, be released to fulfil its function, which is to finance companies and the economy in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u7	You have the floor again, Mr Jerome de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, your answer raises one thought and two other questions. We know that many of the issues in the Box today result from the options made by successive administrations and successive governments of the PS, the PSD and the CDS ; they result from the involvement of the Box in bad business, such as the granting of credit to BPN, the shareholders of the BCP to acquire shares of the Bank itself, the acquisition of the Lobo Valley enterprise and other operations relating to the granting of credit without guarantee or risk assessment ;... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... result from the sale of valuable assets such as Insurance Bank, which were handed over to the private by decision of the former PSD Government / CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u10	All of this has to be resolved throughout its scope and responsibility, but it cannot be used to challenge the importance of Box as a public bank. This raises a crucial issue that must be taken up. The purpose of the recapitalisation of the Fund must be to strengthen the public bank and its role in the financial system and in the national economy. The recapitalization of the Box cannot be used to weaken, reduce activity, counters and fire workers. Recapitalisation cannot be made to meet the European Commission or the ECB's requirements. If recapitalisation is to be accompanied by a restructuring of the Box, it should not be guided by European taxation with the intention of creating a business space for the private bank at the expense of the weakening of the Box ; it must be done with the aim of strengthening the Box as a public investment policy instrument for lending to businesses and families. in this sense, I ask you, Prime Minister : what is the Government's perspective on the objective of recapitalisation of Caixa? What is the Government's perspective on strengthening the activity of Box, maintaining jobs, valuing the assets of the public bank? [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u11	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u12	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, first of all with regard to the past activity of the Box, the Government trusts that the supervisory authorities or the judicial authorities have taken the necessary steps to take because it is certainly not up to the current Government to take on past facts. In fact, as Mr Deputies have just said, it is absolutely extraordinary to see that those who have ruled the country for the past four years suddenly have so many doubts about the Bank for which they have been responsible during the last four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u13	You're right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u14	The Government is doing its part well and respects the separation of powers. The supervisory authorities are independent and we hope they will carry out their mission; the judicial authorities are autonomous and we hope they will carry out their mission. We are responsible for fulfilling our mission, which is to define what the function of the Box is. And in this respect we fully agree with the description here: the General Deposit Box must not only be a public bank, as the main pillar of stability of our financial system and be at the service of the national economy. in the letter of mission, which is being prepared, substantially reinforces the role that the Fund should play in supporting small and medium-sized enterprises as an important contribution to the financing of the economy, to strengthening our business fabric and to boost job creation. There is a restructuring plan that is underway in relation to which the Box has to face, but which cannot aim to weaken the General Deposit Box, should be oriented to strengthen the General Deposit Box. For example, in the international position of the Box, what are the strategically relevant markets for the Box and for the Country and what are the markets that are not strategically relevant for the Box and for the Country, always in logic not to weaken the Box, but to make full use of its resources to strengthen it and, in doing so, strengthen the national economy. This must be the great function of the General Deposit Box and it is in this line of guidance that the Government is working on and will trace to the future of the Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u15	Mr Prime Minister has no time to answer the new question, but Mr Jerónimo de Sousa still has time for the considerations he understands. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's a shame, but the question is put. Mr. Prime Minister, as you made a reference to the appointment of the new administration, the government is well aware of the CFP's position on the salaries of administrators: we do not agree with the system of remuneration of administrators... [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u17	We did not agree with this, nor with your chosen administrations in the past!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u18	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u19	We're consistent! [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But did I offend any former cashier here? [[PCP laughter.]] No, no, no. I don't think so! Mr Prime Minister, we understand that competence comes from knowledge rather than from the level of remuneration. We therefore consider it unacceptable for administrations to be paid with millionaire wages when the reality of Portuguese workers' wages leads many to not even getting out of the poverty situation in which they are. We believe that this is unacceptable both in the public and private sectors, because what is at stake is a question of social justice and not of the nature of the economic sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u20	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u21	Despite the composition of the new administration, we will continue to intervene in order to ensure that the management options of the Box...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u22	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u23	I will finish, Mr. President. I ask for tolerance due to initial interruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u24	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u25	I'll get to the last question. In December 2012 the previous Government imposed the payment of the tolls in the so-called « ex-SCUT ». After almost four years, the conclusion is only one: a good deal for dealers, a nightmare for the populations that have been reached. The CFP has always argued that these motorways should be returned to the people. We are fighting over these years for the abolition of tolls, for the increase in traffic and road accidents on national roads and for the rumbe that this measure has produced in the economic fabric of the very depressed regions. A resolution has recently been adopted in the Assembly of the Republic which recommends that the Government reduce the value of the tolls.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u26	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u27	Only 10 seconds, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister, when and how does the Government seek to implement this just recommendation of the Assembly of the Republic? Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u28	In accordance with the order of the questions, I now give the floor to Mr Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, there has indeed been a long time for a news folklore about the General Deposit Box, but there has been very little time and, above all, very little desire to clarify the country and Parliament. Something that's not new! Three months have passed and the PSD has not yet received Mr Prime Minister's answers on direct and concrete questions to him about his intervention, which he has never denied and never explained in the negotiations of private shareholders in a private bank. Then, Prime Minister, in the last 15-year debate we also asked you a question about the General Deposit Box and Mr Prime Minister did not answer. More recently, we sent him 30 questions about the recapitalisation process of the General Deposit Box, to which Mr. Prime Minister did not answer either. I would like to say the following: firstly, to reassure Mr Jerome de Sousa...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u30	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u31	... and the whole House, to have a serious debate, the PSD understands that the public nature of the General Deposit Box is not at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u33	Welcome!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u34	It is not worth coming with this smoking curtain to escape the discussion that interests the country and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] Whenever you don't want to argue, send these atoards into the air to see that the attention is diverted, but we're not going to deviate from the essentials, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u35	Read the manual!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u36	And the essential thing is this: Mr. Prime Minister, will the government or will not inject more than EUR 4 billion of taxpayers' money in the General Deposit Box? If you're going, is that the value? Is it more? Is that less? What is the justification for this amount? Secondly, Prime Minister, I have already said here that there is a bank restructuring plan that is being promoted by the government. It is also assumed that it is being discussed in Brussels. Long time goes by when Members of the Socialist Party were insurgent under the circumstances of a government to have a dialogue with Brussels before clarifying Parliament and before clarifying the country! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Now, Prime Minister, does it or does it not confirm that this personality that has been invited is already collaborating, even before it has been appointed, precisely in the preparation of this restructuring plan? Mr. Prime Minister, say in concrete what the plan is, what you want to do with the assets of the General Deposit Box and the human resources of the General Deposit Box. If you are about to finish this process with the European institutions, you must be able to tell the country what is on the table. Tell Parliament and say it through Parliament and the country! Mr. Prime Minister, is it true that the governance model of the Box will change? Is it true that the board of directors will have more than 50 % of members — 19 in all — or is it not true? You can also take advantage of this debate to clarify the country. Mr Prime Minister, who is speaking the truth: is Mr Secretary of State of the Treasury, who, on Monday this week, said that this process was in the preliminary phase or is Mr Prime Minister, who said yesterday, and has already repeated here today, which is already in the phase of the «finals»? Mr. Prime Minister, you understand! Tell the country the truth! Tell me where you stand that this recapitalization process is. Mr. Finance Minister is outlining a smile and I was now asking Mr. Prime Minister one last question: does he agree with the Minister of Finance, who apologized to all the governments of the Socialist Party who provided strategic guidelines for the General Deposit Box as regards the constitution of so much badly-fated credit in the Box? Do you agree with this vision of Professor Centeno, who, as a new Christian, wants now to be more papist than the Pope, saying that the Socialist Party has nothing to do with the General Deposit Box, that this was a problem for the last four years? Do you agree with that, Prime Minister? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u37	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u38	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, let me start by congratulating myself on the evolution of the PSD position. [[P.S.'s applause.]] today, when I heard him say that the public nature of the General Deposit Box is not at stake, I was very happy not to hear today the leader of his party repeat what he said in 2011. It was at that time that he said: « I think we will need to open the capital of the General Deposit Box to private ones as well. It means undertaking a privatisation process." That is, this was the PSD position still in 2011 and I am very happy that this is no longer the PSD position! [[PSD applause.]] The General Deposit Box, being a public entity from its origin, certainly had the supervision of all governments that governed Portugal, from its origin. And, I insist, with regard to past actions, I have full confidence — and I am sure that you too have — in which the supervisory bodies and the judicial authorities have done what they have to do, in terms of supervision, in the way the General Deposit Box has been managed. for our part, we have the concern to strengthen the control mechanisms of the General Deposit Box. And the reason why we consider extending the number of non-executive administrators is precisely aimed at strengthening the first-line control over the management of the General Deposit Box. The General Deposit Box currently has seven executive administrators and will remain with seven executive administrators; it has eight non-executive administrators and, we wish, it will have 12 non-executive administrators. And why? Why this increase of non-executive administrators? To ensure a fundamental thing that today is not guaranteed: for the three specialized committees — the committee of strategy, the committee of audit and the committee of risk — the non-executives always have a majority, never taking the risk of having a majority of executives or just a non-executive vote with an executive for the majority to change. Strengthening the internal control mechanisms of the Box is the first step we must take in order to have a better controlled and better managed box in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u39	Mr Luís Montenegro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u40	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, although I have tried to speak slowly so that I could point out, I do not know if you have not heard or if you have not had time to point out the questions I asked you, but I am going to repeat them. Mr Prime Minister, will the government or will not inject some EUR 4000 million into the Box? What will the government do with the cash assets? What is the government going to do with the casket's human resources? What is the restructuring plan that is on the table and that Mr Prime Minister is negotiating with the European institutions? You have a second opportunity to respond, Prime Minister. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u41	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u42	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, it is not worth speaking slowly, it is enough to pay attention to the debate because, on the first question, of the 4000 million, I replied to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa and to you nothing more I have to add to what I have already said to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the restructuring plan, as you well know, it is subject to negotiations with the European institutions. It is subject to negotiation with the Directorate-General for Competition, with the Directorate-General for Economic and Financial Affairs, with the European supervisory institutions. Therefore, it would be foolish to present a restructuring plan that was premature for what would become an effective viable solution. One thing can be quiet: no restructuring plan will be implemented without this Assembly and you, in particular, be informed of what we intend to do with the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u43	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u44	Mr President, Prime Minister, your concept of clarification to Parliament and the country is as follows: « When the fact is finished, I say how it remains ». [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u45	It is basically its democratic concept of clarification and discussion. [[PSD applause.]] Now, Prime Minister, I repeat the questions, because they have not yet been answered, and I am going to ask others: is it true that the whole, or almost all, of the misappropriate credit that is in the General Deposit Box and that it is one of the reasons for the need for recapitalisation has been decided, as well as the analysis of the respective risk, at the time when the guidelines for the General Deposit Box came from a guardianship, from a government to which you have belonged and which you have supported?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u46	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u47	Is it true or not, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u48	It's true, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u49	Is it or is it not true that the ruinous and speculative businesses that are on the basis of much of this misdeeded credit come from this time, Prime Minister? And is it or is it not true that only in 2012 was it enshrined in the letter of mission of the General Deposit Box the need of this public bank to direct their credit to small and medium-sized enterprises and not to be absorbing much, almost entirely, of their capacity in these business that, for irony, were always formulated by friends of the Socialist Party Government of then? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u50	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u51	Mr President, Mr. Luís Montenegro, I must tell you that I am a little perplexed by your question,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u52	... because I am sure that, having been Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho Prime Minister for four years and Mrs. Maria Luís Albuquerque Minister of Finance for much of the term and Secretary of State for the rest of the time, if they had detected ruinous management situations in the General Deposit Box they would have fulfilled their duty to transmit to the judicial authorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I must say that I wouldn't even have that lack of confidence in Dr. Pedro Passou Coelho or Dr. Maria Luís Albuquerque!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u53	Answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u54	So, ladies and gentlemen, let us see if we understand ourselves once and for all: on the past, you have protected the Box for four years and, if anything illegal existed, I hope that you have fulfilled your duty to communicate to the authorities themselves, if something illegal existed, I hope that the judicial authorities have not been distracted, if something illegal existed, I hope that the supervisor has not been distracted and therefore everything has been clarified at the very moment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u55	As for this government, which does not govern the past, we are concerned that in the future there are no further doubts about the management of the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u56	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u57	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, on matters of confidence, I know that Mr Prime Minister was more confident of the Eng Socrates and Dr Teixeira dos Santos, we already know. I entrust more to Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho and Dr. Maria Luís Albuquerque, who brought transparency to the General Deposit Box and went to detect what was hidden in the General Deposit Box. This was only possible from 2012 onwards. [[PSD applause.]] More than EUR 5000 million of inequalities that went to the balance sheet and were hidden in the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u58	What you're saying is serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u59	But, Prime Minister, we have already realized that you do not want to provide the clarifications that are due to the country and I want to say - to you that we in the PSD understand that the Portuguese have the right to truth, the Portuguese we also represent here have the right to know what happened in the General Deposit Box and why these needs today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u60	If you have detected inequalities of 5000 million, you have to answer that.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u61	It's a lot of money, Prime Minister. We need to understand very well how the Box has come to this situation and therefore, Prime Minister, I want here to announce, in a clear and solemn manner, the following: there will be a committee of inquiry to analyse in Parliament all this situation and its evolution. At least PSD parliamentarians will require, in accordance with the law, the immediate and mandatory establishment of a committee of inquiry that can assess and establish responsibilities of governments and administrations. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Finance Minister is saying that not because he is not able to be interested, but look what the country is, the country is very interested in knowing the truth about the General Deposit Box. Mr Prime Minister, one last issue before the end: Parliament discussed last Friday the possibility of the European Union's application of sanctions to Portugal. We have a very clear position on this: there is no objective reason for the application of sanctions to Portugal. Portugal had one of the best behaviours in reducing the deficit, Portugal had one of the best European Union behaviors in reducing the structural deficit and even the primary structural deficit. We are at the forefront of those who in the European Union have made a budgetary consolidation effort. Mr. Prime Minister is in charge of all the information.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u62	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u63	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister has every argument to avoid, at European level, the application of sanctions, even if symbolic. Therefore, Prime Minister, if there is any application of sanctions to Portugal, this will be due to the incompetence of how Mr Prime Minister can negotiate this with the European Union. It is not due to lack of arguments; it may be, when much, because the Prime Minister and the Socialist Party, along with the Left Block and the PCP, have a lot of difficulty to say in the European Union that the country has fulfilled...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u64	I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u65	... and that it is because it has fulfilled, regardless of the government in office, that these sanctions should not be applied. And the same is said now, Mr Prime Minister, concerning additional measures. for 2015, there is no hypothesis of accountability regarding the need for a plan b or additional fiscal consolidation measures. That's just, and only, in your hands and your government. So the country knows that if there are sanctions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u66	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u67	... the responsibility lies with the Government and with the Prime Minister and, if there are any additional measures, the responsibility is also with the Government and with the Prime Minister and, of course, with all those who support him in Parliament. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u68	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u69	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, look, it is worth more than ever: if during the four years they were in the Government they were unable to figure out what was going on in the Box, it is better now that they try with the commission of inquiry, since they did not, by the way, do so during the four years they were in the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u70	I'm sorry to hear this!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u71	As far as I am concerned, a good regime agreement is concerned. My friends dedicate themselves to archaeology, we dedicate ourselves to building the future of the country. It's very good, it's an excellent regime agreement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] As for sanctions, Mr Luís Montenegro, we will be clear on this matter: this government will not, on behalf of the internal political struggle, do what the Government of V. Exa did in 2011 in the European institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are going to beat ourselves in European institutions for national interest, and national interest is that there is no sanctions. And there are good reasons why there should be no sanctions: firstly, because it would be absolutely unfair to the country and this people, who have suffered what has suffered during these four years, to be still fined by the way that this government has failed the results it has committed itself to. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, because it would be immoral to be punished by those who, for so long, praised the policy that was being followed, now that it is found that the results of this policy were not those who had been promised, those who had been desired, and that were not achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u72	They did, they did!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u73	Mr. Prime Minister is wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u74	It would be an immoral sanction on that basis. But there is a third fundamental reason: it would be absolutely inappropriate to apply sanctions in the particular year in which for the first time, even in the worst forecasts either of the European Union, or of the OECD, Portugal will have a deficit of less than 3 %. It would be totally incomprehensible if these sanctions were to arise this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, we have not dealt with the internal policy issues and the PS Parliamentary Group, as much as I know, voted favourably both votes presented in this House, both at a fundamental point: not to the application of sanctions to Portugal. But there is something that agreed that the honourable Member should record, there is something that the honourable Member should definitely register so that we do not have to return to this subject, because it is not useful for anyone to return to it. The reason why the issue of negotiations is on the table is very simply the following: Portugal had in 2015 the obligation to reduce the structural deficit and increased it by 0, 6 %; Portugal should have remained below 3 % and, even by withdrawing all extraordinary measures on the side of revenue and expenditure, had 3, 2 % and was above 3 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u75	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u76	This is the only reason why the issue of sanctions is on the table. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Pedro Passos Coelho.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u77	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor to put questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, this is the first time that Mr Prime Minister comes to Parliament after the last National Congress of the Socialist Party. Although his presence in this House is always in institutional functions, it is appropriate to congratulate him, on behalf of the PS parliamentary bench, for his re-election as Secretary-General and, in his person, to greet the Socialist Party, to which this bench...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u79	Mr. Deputies, just a moment, if you don't mind. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the conditions of our agenda have not changed, and I therefore ask everyone to cooperate so that he can be heard. You would like to continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. As he said, although his presence in this House is always in institutional functions, it is appropriate to congratulate him, on behalf of the PS parliamentary bench, for his re-election as Secretary-General and, in his person, to greet the Socialist Party, to which this bench is very proud to belong, by holding the XXI National Congress. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, fulfil the alternative and consolidate hope, this is the brand that best portrays the first six months of this government. And these six months of government have proved that there was an alternative, they have proved that we were not doomed to the fatality of impoverishment. These six months have proved that it is possible to govern constitutionally, have proved that it is possible to do different, have proved that more fiscal justice is possible and, in a considerable amount of 15 days, more concretely on 1 July, a further commitment of the fiscal plan will be made, plus a decisive measure for job creation: the reduction of VAT to the restoration sector. But it has also been possible to turn the page of austerity, inverting the policy of income cuts and pensions and the policy of low wages and destruction of labour rights led by the previous government. In six months of government, it has been possible to build an alternative to austerity policy. For this reason, when we talk about Portugal being subject to sanctions on the part of the European Commission for alleged failure to comply with the Stability and Growth Pact, we believe that this would be unfair, counterproductive and incomprehensible. We know that today's governance is also within the framework of the European Union, where the current government has debated and confronted its proposals and positions in favour of national interest. It is, in truth, a position that contrasts with the subservience with which the former Government, PSD / CDS, guided its relations with European bodies. at this crucial moment, we cannot fail to criticize the stance of the PSD and the CDS because they have not voted favourably the vote of condemnation signed by the Socialist Party. PSD and CDS have 'behaved' by the fact that the text does not praise the performance of the previous governance. For bad luck in the country, the right remains obsessed with defending itself when what is at stake is the defense of national interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, we know that the former Government has been the most centralist government since 25 April. But for PS decentralization is a priority. According to the OECD — 2015 data —, the participation of authorities in public expenditure in Portugal is 11, 8 % when the average in the European Union is 23, 5 %. Decentralisation is the basis for State reform and is one of the key commitments of the Government Programme and the National Reform Programme. The Prime Minister is well aware of the advantages of decentralization, since as President of the City Council of Lisbon, he has led a genuine decentralization of competences and financial resources for the parish, with multiple gains for the people and for the authorities concerned. in this sense, it is expected that the forthcoming elections will take place in a different framework from the previous autarchics, which would be a fair tribute to the 40 years of local democratic power. Progress needs to be made: a first step towards strengthening the competences and financial resources of municipalities and Freguesia, particularly in the fields of social action, education and health; a second step towards the direct election of the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, thereby ensuring greater democratic legitimacy to this level of public administration ; a third step to confer regional legitimacy on regional development coordination committees ( CCDR ). The CCDRs will only have a truly regional dimension when they have regional basic legitimacy. The presidents of these structures must be elected by the regional authorities. We know that these steps involve changing the legislative framework by the end of the year and is a process that advises consensus in Parliament and partnerships with ANAFRE ( National Fregues Association ) and with ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ). The Socialist Parliamentary Group is committed to decentralization and the Government can count on our contribution and best example of the political heritage of the Socialist Party in relation to local power. Mr. Prime Minister, every week PSD and CDS announce a crisis that will not be confirmed. Let's talk about the General Deposit Box. PSD and CDS always looked at the Box with a predatory tape, waiting for the best time to privatize it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u81	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u82	The PSD now comes to say that you are concerned about the situation in Box and asks the question: has the Box changed so much in the last six months? The answer is obvious: of course not! PSD and CDS are testing this "number" because they want to believe that nothing has to do with the situation in Caixa when they have ruled the country in the last four years. This game is called bad conscience, this game is called guilt. With regard to the bank, and now on BANIF, the interview of Mrs Assumption Cristas, as President of the CDS-PP, to an economic newspaper published yesterday, revealed that, and I quote, « in relation to BANIF, what I can say is that the issue has never been discussed in the Council of Ministers. in fact, the information I had about BANIF was the one that then came to the public. Do not keep on seeking. ” These statements lead us to one of two conclusions, the two equally worrying: or the former Prime Minister hid the subject of the Government, more specifically the partner of the coalition, or the former Prime Minister understood that the matter was of lesser importance and as such said only about the Minister of Finance, did not concern the other Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Miguel Morgado's protests.]] We are therefore waiting for more revealing interviews that the truth about BANIF will be very close to the thesis that the previous government has hidden the Bank's situation for reasons of an electoral agenda, even when it was about to intervene by the European Commission. Mr. Prime Minister, PSD and CDS have long been committed to privatizing the General Deposit Box. They are already counting on the front opposition of the PS. You will always find in this bench a firm and unimpossible rock against the privatisation of the General Deposit Box. I shall end by putting the following question to Mr Prime Minister : can the Government guarantee the Portuguese that it will maintain the capital of the Box entirely in the hands of the State? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u83	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u84	Mr President, to whom I give a special embrace of solidarity, because suffering from the live selection game must be even worse than watching it on television, Mr. João Paulo Correia, I would like to thank you for your words and say, first of all, that decentralization, which we have referred to and reaffirmed that decentralisation must even be the cornerstone of the reform of the State. It is the great opportunity to make the reform of the state, making it with the parish, with the municipalities, with the metropolitan areas and democratizing the coordination and regional development committees. at this moment, we are developing contacts with the metropolitan areas, with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, with the National Association of Freguesias, and we play that within a few weeks we will be able to begin a generalized contact with all the political forces in this House in order to look at this reform, which we want to sign, with a great national consensus, the 40 years of democratic local power. I believe that it is today a consensual point among all that the autonomy of local power was one of the great gains of the Constitution of the Republic and, in this year when we mark the 40 years of the first elections, there is no better way to honor our authorities than to show confidence in their capacity, strengthening the means and powers to serve their people and to respond to the management of their own territory. I hope that this can be a consensual theme in this House of the Republic. With regard to the question posed on the General Deposit Box, there is a guarantee that we will always give: it will always be 100 % public and 100 % of the State. We do not come into the speculation of what is the amount of capital reinforcement. I have already had the opportunity to tell Mr Jerónimo de Sousa recently that we have to distinguish what are the strengthening needs that result from the regulatory obligations — some immediate ones, others that will be deferred, particularly for 2017 — from other needs that result from the inequalities that exist in the bank accounts and for which it is not possible to continue to do what has been done over the past few years, that it is to hide and push forward, and that it is also necessary to ensure the capital to make the necessary investments, so that the Caixa continues to be the big bank of our financial system and a great factor of stability, in support of our economy, the internationalisation of our companies, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and to ensure the saving of Portuguese families, in addition to an essential factor to the stability of our financial system. That is our objective, we will continue - and it is not worth speculating at this time about amounts because the right value of these amounts can only be reached at the end of the negotiations of the restructuring programme, the business plan and the capitalisation we have in negotiation with the European Commission. It is not about hiding anything, it is about not feeding a wave of speculation that at nothing contributes to what is necessary to concentrate us: to strengthen the Box and strengthen confidence in the General Deposit Box. Allow me also, Mr President, to take this remaining time to answer a question that had to be answered by Mr Jerónimo de Sousa on the SCUTs. The Government has taken good note of the recommendation which was adopted in this House and the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has been developing the necessary negotiations so that it can still be implemented this summer. It is in this effort that we are focused on, that is in this effort that the Minister of Planning, who is here, has been working, and we believe that we can carry it out this summer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u85	Even in the time of the PS Parliamentary Group, for questions, Mr João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u86	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is good for everyone to recognise with a sense of justice, it is the government's will to project the future and it is about the present and the future that I would like to talk about here today. Mr Prime Minister, the Government has unequivocally wagered on an agenda to enhance capacity for creation, innovation and investment, a bet that will put Portugal better prepared to generate more and better jobs, as our ambition is. Promoting emancipation as a guarantee of full autonomy for citizens is a priority on the country's political agenda and many of the measures already announced, and already implemented, are devoted in particular to the new generations of Portuguese. We know that an emancipation agenda does not run out of investment, but the bets that the country has made in recent decades offer opportunities for those who want to explore new businesses that we cannot waste. We know that an emancipation agenda does not run out with entrepreneurship either, but Portugal has to take advantage of all its talent, even recognizing that the skill deficit is still the one that is most important to overcome. The National Strategy for Entrepreneurship created a new paradigm in how the State encourages Portuguese to put their ideas at the service of a development strategy. At the same time, Portugal 2020's agility of resources already transports evident reflections to the economy. The Portuguese companies received more than EUR 200 million, in a total of 5000 approved applications, corresponding to an overall investment of more than EUR 10 billion. In turn, with the Industry 4.0 programme, the Government contributes decisively to further advances in the digitisation of business processes in order to reverse the barriers emanating from our geographical position. Prime Minister, innovation and entrepreneurship are fundamental pillars of modern societies but make sense only if they are able to generate decent and decent jobs and thus combat the trilogy of the denial of social rights of our time: unemployment, precariousness and emigration. I do not refuse to make a reference here to the contribution of innovation to the deepening and strengthening of civic rights, expressing my perplexity at the risk of the institution of the mobility vote already in the forthcoming regional elections of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. At risk the vote of thousands of young citizens, many of whom are displaced students, has no admissible justification. Therefore, allow me, Mr President, to call on the PSD and the CDS to ensure that they support the PS proposal to amend the electoral law and ensure the entry into force of this mechanism at the next elections in October.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u88	Mr Prime Minister, you can take pride in the greater of all the revisions that this government has made to date, the reversal of a country which is paralyzed in the management of Community funds,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u89	... of cross arms in investment or investment incentive, depressed in its entrepreneurial vocation, which today gives rise to a more dynamic and dynamic Portugal, synchronized with the need to manage a long series of economic growth promoting employment with rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u90	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u91	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister, listening to our opposition here, especially the PSD, allow me this suggestion: it is even better to ignore the honourable Members. Right-wingers who can't distinguish the Beira road from the roadside. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u92	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u93	Mr President, it is good not to forget that they are the same ones that have just left on the road, and that has already been forgotten, all the unemployed, all the workers, the pensioners and the young, the most and the least qualified. It takes a huge upheaval to reveal such a clumsy lack of memory in this Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u94	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u95	May I ask the following question, Prime Minister: can you assure this House that the Government that is leading will continue to take strong steps in combating precariousness, also using the incentive to entrepreneurship in our country for this purpose? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u96	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u97	Mr President, Mr. João Torres, are in fact two very clear times in the political debate of this House : the right-wing benches, in particular that of the PSD, underlining, live obsessed with their past and, not content with their past, already want to discuss the ancestors of 2011, such the fear and inability that they have to look at the future and what the Portuguese want, which is a look at the present and the future of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, we have defined an economic programme in two times: the first is that of urgency and the second is that of solving the structural blockades of our economy. in the time of urgency, we gave priority to the relaunch of the economy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u98	Look! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u99	... the replacement of income but also the creation of conditions for investment by companies. Even tomorrow, the Enterprise Capitalisation Mission Unit, which we created at the beginning of our government, will present the report of its activity and the set of measures aimed at strengthening the ability to recapitalize companies. A great deal of effort has been made to speed up the implementation of the Community funds. Do you remember that we started by setting a target for the first 100 days of government we put EUR 100 million in companies? On the day we took possession only there they had come, after two years, EUR 4 million to the companies. But last week we have doubled this target and we have already put EUR 200 million in companies and we believe that, as we continue to do so, we will exceed the target we had to put EUR 450 million in companies by the end of this year. We did the same in agriculture. currently, for the Rural Development Programme, we already have 2692 contracts signed, worth more than EUR 424 million. This means that there is great effort to create conditions for companies to be able to invest and recover from the paralysis that they had after a disastrous transition from the QREN to Portugal 2020 that destroyed and crippled investment in Portugal. But we cannot limit ourselves to the short term. And therefore the National Reform Programme, which has already been approved by the European Commission, well defines the medium and long-term strategy, which is based on qualifications and innovation as two key pillars. For us, qualifications and innovation are the answer not only to have more growth but above all to have better employment and better ability to take advantage of the qualified frameworks, the frameworks of their generation, which, during the four years of this government, have been pushed into emigration and that we have to be able not only to fix how to attract, in order to have a more qualified, modern and innovative economic fabric. For us, entrepreneurship is not alpha and omega. Therefore, we are investing in agriculture and its modernization and one of the first projects that we will present to the Juncker Plan will be to extend the stream in order to increase productivity, particularly in the central and northern regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we have developed Industry 4.0 to value and take advantage of the opportunities opened by digitisation in the traditional industry. Yes, entrepreneurship is also another way of dynamizing the economy and an important way of diversifying our economic fabric, helping our internationalisation and creating qualified jobs. Therefore, the Startup Portugal programme, in its three aspects, of strengthening an ecosystem, of strengthening conditions for financing and strengthening conditions for internationalisation, has in fact a very ambitious objective : to make Portugal the most friendly and attractive country for entrepreneurship throughout the European Union. Fortunately, in November this year, here in Lisbon, we have the largest technological innovation event, which is the Web Summit, and which will be here for three years. But we can't just have this event as a technology and innovation party that lasts a few weeks. We must take this opportunity to create, in fact, here in Portugal, a brand and an image that we want to be a friendly and attractive country of entrepreneurship. This is a bet of this government and it must be won throughout the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u100	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u101	Mr President, Prime Minister, who has ever had doubts about the need for the General Deposit Box to be fully public, with the succession of scandals in the private bank that made Portugal have less bank, worse bank and foreign control, has certainly left all doubts aside. That is why the position of the Left Block has been that public recapitalisation is a priority because the Box has to be fully public, and we know of the obstacles of the European Commission to the public recapitalisation of the Box and also that we have not always agreed within the country. But today we note that, June 15, in the afternoon, the PSD changes its position and guarantees us here that it is with the public recapitalisation of the Box. It will be at least a good news of this debate! [[Congratulations from BE.]] With this commitment made, then let's go to the rest. If one of the problems of the public recapitalisation of Caixa was that of the public discourse, in particular on the right, of the weakening of the Box — which we are now told that they do not want to have, and we note — there is another problem that weakens the Box and recapitalisation: it seems that recapitalisation must be subject to market conditionalism. This is what makes the idea, for example, that it is normal to increase the wages of administrators at the same time as they fire workers. We understand: dismissing workers and increasing salaries of administrators is not the way to restructure the Box, is the way to weaken the General Deposit Box. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u102	Even because you are proving, in this country or in any other country, that paying a lot to a manager is a guarantee of good management. See there that earning more than 1 million euros per year did not cause Zeinal Bava not to lay PT ( Portugal Telecom) to the tank or that the family Espírito Santo did not destroy the whole Group. [[All right!]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u103	History shows us that it is not in the salaries of the administrators who are good management and therefore we understand: if the responsibility of managing the public bank and the salary of prime minister is not enough for someone to ensure good management of the Box, there is no wage that will guarantee you that good management. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u104	That is why, in the Left Block, we think that exceptions on this matter are not, in any way, good advisers. Moreover, treating the General Deposit Box as a private bank has not made good decisions, has made bad decisions. See the decisions taken in the previous government with regard to the Cimpor or the sale, in part of insurance, of Fidelity. To draw conclusions on what the action of the Box should be, mimicking private groups, what it has done is to deprotect the economy and protect private interests. So we think that the line should be all the other. For things to change, we also need to understand the responsibilities of how we arrived here. We have no doubt about this, because we know that there are large holes in the General Deposit Box that are decisions taken by political agents on behalf of private interests. And that worries us. When we look at the list of the biggest debtors of the General Deposit Box we find the Mello Group right above, with Efacec and Brisa. Next we find the Group Espírito Santo, either in its connection to the Escom, of Bataglia and Horta and Costa, with the resort Vale do Lobo, either to the Group Espírito Santo, and then, of course, to the builders, such as the Group Lena, António Mosquito, Angolan capital, and Finpro, that wonder where the Amorim Group was found with BANIF for the sake of all of us. What do all these names have in common besides owe a lot of money to the General Deposit Box? [[They have the government in common!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u105	They have some names in common and therefore political responsibilities as well. Antonio Vitorino was part of the supervising body of the General Deposit Box and, at the same time, had positions in the Brisa, in Finpro, in the Mello Group and still in the Berardo Foundation. He also presided at the General Assembly of the Box and at the same time had paid positions in the Holy Spirit Group, at the Cimpor and later went to work with Antonio Mosquito. The names are so many that I would not have time, but we have: António Sousa, António Nogueira Milk, Rui Machete. You know these names, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? They are all involved in this circus central block in ruinous business of the Box. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, the decisions of the General Deposit Box should be examined. I say even more: the Left Block has a proposal for elections to do to the Government, which I will already do, but I cannot fail to respond to the announcement made today by the PSD setting up a committee of inquiry to the General Deposit Box. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate everything, it doesn't have to be authoritative. The Left Block won't oppose her, of course. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] Now, if you want a committee of authoritative inquiry to be able to choose the object alone and thus investigate only the business you want,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...have the strength of the Left Block so that everything is investigated, because this PSD wants a commission of inquiry only yours we know well what you might mean, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. For that, they don't count on the Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Are we going to a committee of inquiry? Yes, but it is to determine the responsibility of all governments and administrations. Mr. Prime Minister, we in the Left Block have seen how the committees of inquiry take a long time and the recapitalisation of the Box can certainly not take all that time. Therefore, without prejudice to this work, what we think is that the Government cannot trust that the former Government has done its work or that the supervisor has done its work. We don't believe it was done. We believe, yes, that the Government should promote a forensic audit of the high-risk claims of the General Deposit Board and share these results with Parliament and the Public Prosecutor, so that its officials have the course to take in justice, and that is the challenge we face. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u106	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u107	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, we will consider your suggestion. On the Box, in the description you have made, we have come to a point that I think is very important: we must ensure that the General Deposit Box, being a public bank, a strong bank, a bank that is a pillar of stability of our financial system, has, first of all, a management not of political but professional commissioners. The first option that this government has taken was to invite someone who has a long course in the banking system and with administration functions, and, so far, I have not heard of any reservation or censorship to the personality we choose to form the team to preside over the General Deposit Box. I have a rule in my life: I give to the people I invite to work freedom of themselves to make up your team. The ministers who are part of this government had the freedom to choose their State Secretaries, because it is, in my view, the way in which each one can assume his or her responsibilities. Therefore, the Government has sent Dr. António Domingues to establish and propose the appointment of an administration for the General Deposit Box. We are waiting for your proposal and we are going to look into it as shareholders, who will have to vote for that administration. There is one thing that needs to be made clear, because there has been a huge nebula on this subject: firstly, there is a general debate, which I think Portuguese society should do, which has to do with the fairness of wage differentiation within business organisations. And there are, in fact, many cases where it is absolutely immoral the wage difference between higher salaries and lower salaries within the same organization. I know that initiatives have already been announced, for example by Mr Torres, on this subject, and I think that this is something that must be reflected by Portuguese society. I think there are limits, ethically or morally, to wage differentiation within the same organization. This is a general debate that also applies to Box, but I see no reason to start here. Secondly, today there is the false idea that there is a ceiling for the salaries of the administrators of the General Deposit Box. The idea is false because this roof is false. And why is the roof false? Because what the 2012 diploma actually provides is, as a rule, that the salary of public business administrators is the salary of the Prime Minister. But then it has provided an exception for entities operating in a market competition environment, according to which the administrators' salary may not be limited by the Prime Minister's maturity, it may simply have no limit. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And why don't you have any limits?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u108	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u109	Because the possible maturity is the average maturity of the previous three years. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u110	So there's no limit. That's what it is. If we, with the current rule, which is still in force, invite to the President of the Box someone who has a monthly maturity of €70 000, the salary to be paid is EUR 70 000 per month, it is not a maturity below the Prime Minister's salary! [[PSD protests.]] I have to say that, since I am a mortgage winner, I understand that, for companies operating in market competition, particularly in a sector such as the financial sector, the mortgage cannot be that of the Prime Minister's maturity. And this, in fact, has nothing to do with merit or demerit, has to do with life options and what is paid in a sector. If we want to be competitive in a sector, we can't pay anymore, nor can we pay less. If we want a General Deposit Box which is indeed a solid bank, a benchmark in the banking system, which can compete with the best within the sector, we must have remuneration in this regard. Now, what's going to happen is that there's going to be a ceiling, because maturity is no longer what it was to become the maturity that the cashier's maturity commission, i.e. the shareholder, will come to define what it is. And that's double correct, from my point of view, because, first, the maturity of the cash administrators ceases to be defined by the previous bosses of the cashier's administrators and becomes defined by the State ; and second, we end up with the absurd situation of each, in Box, earning more or gain less due to the function he performs but according to the function he performs. That is why it would be absurd to have a president winning less than a vowel, a vice president winning more than the president. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] And that, of course, cannot exist in an organization. So we have a clear rule. How much are you going to win? That's what the committee of dues will fix. I do not want to run away from this because the direction we will give to the committee on salaries is that, given the remuneration of the administrations in the banking sector, it is close to what is the average salary in the administration of the banking sector. This will be the rule, a rule that will not put the Box administrators above what is the average remuneration of bank administrators and that will allow, once and for all, there is not a false ceiling but a ceiling defined by us and not by those for whom the administrators previously worked. That's what I meant, Your Honor. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u111	You also have the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u112	Mr President, Prime Minister, we know that today there is no roof, that there is a false roof. We did not even follow the law of the PSD, and on this matter, what the Left Block does is something as simple as this: we now have a bill, which has already entered the Assembly of the Republic, to limit the wages of all public managers. Therefore our position, being different from that of the government, is certainly also very different from that of the PSD. I would like to draw your attention to the following: the remuneration of the private bank did not ensure good management.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u113	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u114	It can be seen that BCP and BANIF were the ones who paid the most, and this did not guarantee them any health. [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, there are answers on the cash restructuring plan that will be needed. I understand what it says, that it is being studied, but finally, we have to know and be able to debate together, because there are questions, beyond these, that are very important. Apart from the problem of administrators, from the scrutiny we find necessary, because, if there is a public recapitalisation, people need to know why they are putting the tax money on the General Deposit Box, there are other important questions about restructuring: jobs, redundancies in the General Deposit Box are not good advice and we are opposed to this strategy, the problem of the presence of the General Deposit Box balconies throughout the national territory and with the most relevant Portuguese communities, which have just been injured by private banks in which they trusted to be connected to their country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u115	Therefore, the presence of the Box throughout the territory and with the immigrant communities is important. The question of jobs, the question of counters, of course, is the question of the assets which are depreciated. More: we have a concern that I think this government will understand. The former Government has privatized CTTs...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u116	I ask you to synthesize, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u117	With this I shall finish, Mr. President. The former Government has privatized TTCs with a bank licence. It was probably the best business ever offered to private people: « Come here buy the CTTs at a balance price and still carry the largest bank, with the largest number of counters spread across the country! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr. Prime Minister, the worst we could do was a restructuring of the General Deposit Box that would increase the presence of the private CTT bank throughout the territory when we were to lose counters where they are needed. It's good that this doesn't happen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u119	To put questions, you now have the floor of Mrs Assunción Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u120	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I will not insist on matters on which I already realized that Mr Prime Minister will not answer. All the banks asked and I myself did so several times before this session about how much taxpayers will pay for the General Deposit Box to be recapitalized, where, as you know, we have convergence of views, and we always had, in particular, about the public nature of the General Deposit Box. But you still don't say how much taxpayers will pay, whether the amount is EUR 4 billion or if it's another, if you go to the deficit, if you go to debt, how this will impact the accounts. Therefore, of course, we will be with those who, like the PSD, want an inquiry commission to the General Deposit Box, whether or not it is authoritative. We are not interested just in looking at the past - we are interested in looking at the present and what Mr. Prime Minister wants to do with the General Deposit Box. We regret that you are more concerned about giving Mrs Catarina Martins a lesson on the payment regime to public managers than about answering these questions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u121	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u122	But let me move on to another issue which, I believe, is very important.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u123	One more raspanette!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u124	This other issue has to do with the conditions for job creation in Portugal, read investment. I know that Mr. Prime Minister doesn't like projections much—when he's in government he says projections are projections, when he's in opposition he's already using them—so I don't bring them, but I bring him real data on investment in Portugal. Let me show you this Graph. Error! The source of the reference was not found. This graph is not mine, it is from Eurostat, and shows the comparison of investment behaviour in various countries 1. the quarter of 2016 with 1. the quarter of 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u125	What about throughout 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u126	What you see is that Portugal is the country that has the worst result: minus 2, 5 % investment, when almost all others are growing and some are growing very well.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u127	It's the ruin.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u128	Question: How do you explain this data? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u129	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u130	Mr President, Mrs Cristian Assumption, if you do not mind, I would like to tell Mrs Catarina Martins that, as far as her concerns are concerned, the two fears you have expressed, there is no reason to be concerned, because we share from the same point of view. Mrs Cristas, I would like to assure you that we will not hide anything from the House or even the Council of Ministers. None of my ministers will say one day to a newspaper that the theme of the General Deposit Box has never been discussed in the Council of Ministers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I would like to stress that the General Deposit Box is a public bank. Therefore, the capital injection that the State makes in the General Deposit Box is money that the State injects into a state asset.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u131	You have to explain the 4 billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u132	And that's very different from what you did, which was to inject taxpayers' money into private, ruinous banks and that they went into disaster like Banif's. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u133	Let's see who the responsibilities of BANIF are!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u134	As far as reality is concerned, Mrs Deputies, the truth is that this is 1. the quarter came after the previous quarter and this previous quarter, where the investment was already falling. But what is real and it is not forecast are the effective numbers of the National Institute of Statistics. And what do they tell us? That industrial production rose by 6, 4 % in chains and was the second best performance in the whole of Europe. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] They also say that tourism has grown 12, 6 %, that exports, deducted from fuels, have also risen 1, 2 %, that the trade deficit has decreased 277 million, that consumer confidence has increased and that the economic climate indicator has increased. This is reality, measured by the National Institute of Statistics. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u135	You have the floor again, Mrs Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u136	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in fact, he cannot explain with so much good news how investment 1 is. this year's quarter falls and falls scandalously.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u137	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u138	Mr. Prime Minister likes to say that all the weak performance of the Portuguese economy has to do with the international situation. For here it is in view of everyone that the international environment, which is the same for us and other European countries, does not affect investment in other countries and that in Portugal it is radically and seriously affected. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u139	All right! [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u140	Still about the investment, I ask you: how many projects have we already applied for the Juncker Plan? This is because there is a good tool to support investment in Portugal. The information I have is that, in fact, there are countries with many — Italy, 36 ; France, 35 ; Spain, 17 ; but in Portugal only four projects supported by the Juncker Plan. I wanted you to confirm and explain why our performance is not better.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u141	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u142	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, with regard to investment, we have a double problem. First of all, the worst transition of Community funds has led the investment to begin to fall in 2015, which still fell in 1. the quarter of 2016 and that, fortunately, is now being relaunched. I have already recalled that, even in April, we beat all the investment candidature records: EUR 2000 million of projects nominated for funding Community funds. Same, in the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u143	It's a matter of faith!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u144	It is this transition that explains, to a large extent, this breakdown. Secondly, when a work is completed with the weight of the Marão tunnel and is obviously not replaced by a new public work of equal size, it is clear that there is a difference between the investment that existed and what is in existence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u145	Well remembered! [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u146	What I am telling you, Mrs Deputies, is that investment intentions are emerging both from national investment and from foreign direct investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u147	Fantasies!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u148	We're praying!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u149	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, keep this picture, because within a few months it will be very useful to compare what was between what was and what was going to be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u150	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u151	Mr President, in fact Mr Prime Minister understands that investment is public investment and little note and importance gives to private investment. But I have to tell you that it seems to me that what affects the most investment conditions in Portugal is the confidence that the government can, or not, generate in our economy. I can give you many reasons that have affected this confidence, from the stopping of IRC reform to the revisions, to the increase in ISP, to the doubt about the stability of the tax system. The examples are very varied.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u153	But let me also tell you that, by your own assessment, we have a Minister of Economics who, in fact, is not here today, which is, in your words, shy and perhaps too discreet. We have a finance minister who says something in Lisbon and around the world says something else. And I only give two examples, here it attacks the reforms, in Paris says that the reforms of the previous government have been reforms that need to be given time to produce their good effects and — take good note of this — patience is needed for this to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u154	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u155	Here it says that they want to increase wages and, in New York, it says it is a good condition for investment to have a country of low wages. It is this inconsistencies, this inconsistency, and the lack of vision of international strategy that leads to the country being like it is. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] Mr Prime Minister, let me turn to an issue, which has already touched on here, which is the subject of agriculture. Mr. Prime Minister is misinformed, I must tell you. I have been, and I know that you have also been, at the National Agriculture Fair and I have had the opportunity to learn about this and I can tell you that, contrary to what you are saying, we have in fact, and here, without any hiatus between the transition of Community frameworks, a serious stop in this sector. We have the political cowardice of the Minister who put down an entire competition on forest funds. We have 100 people who were evaluating applications that did not have their contract renewed and so this is stopped. We have payments at the end of the month that were always made on time by the previous government and that are not available at the moment. What I want to ask is whether you are in a position to guarantee me that the EUR million parks which have funding from the Community funds will be fully implemented this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u156	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u157	Madam Member, as I know you like rigor, until I read the paper, so that it is very clear and I will read slowly, to make it clearer: the number of applications submitted since 2014 was 25 681. In October of this year 2212 were analyzed, i.e. 8, 5 %. at present, 8423 are already analyzed, i.e. 33 %. of these analyzed, 5329, which means 68 %, have already been decided by the current government and 76 % favourably. at this time, 3123 applications have already been submitted for contract, of which 2692 are already contracted. In October 2015, do you know how many were hired? Do you know what the comparable number was with 2692? Do you know what the number was in October 2015? Zero was the number of those hired. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] And, Mrs Deputies, as in the Ministry of Economics the misfortune was as great as that of the Ministry of Agriculture, this is the investment that was stopped and is now starting again, and one of the fundamental reasons why the investment fell was precisely because you had accumulated applications for candidacy, but did not appreciate them, did not decide them, did not finance them, and everything was stopped. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u158	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u159	Mr Prime Minister, thank you very much for your clarifications, but I regret to say, you have only revealed your ignorance about the matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u160	You know why, Prime Minister? You know why? Because in the agricultural funds, which for the first time had a transitional regime, which allowed them not to have any hiatus in investment — for the first time in our history, notes well — and that the previous programme had been implemented at 100 %, the rule is this: when the application comes in, the fund can immediately be executed. And, therefore, incoming candidacy, it is candidacy that begins to be executed. [[PS protests.]] As it also reveals its enormous ignorance in this area, it does not realize that, in the agricultural funds, the smallest part is the public part, the large part is the part of private investment, as a rule 70 % of private investment and 30 % of public investment. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, if your Minister for Agriculture is not going to cancel, without reason, previous tenders, you can be sure that all this investment that has been made in the meantime will benefit from European funds, and, if it does not happen, it will not benefit from European funds. [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I have two more questions to ask you. One of the questions has to do with irrigation, it is also about agriculture. I was pleased when I heard that I had 90 000 ha to infrastructure, but then when I realized that they were going to be made without 1 € of the State budget, with Community funds, and well, and then with the EIB's debt, I realized that its revenue is exactly the socialist recipe of always: it does not put money there, what it places is debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u161	All right! [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u162	I'm going to ask one last question, Prime Minister, because I think it's important to restore the truth. First of all, I want to stress the occurrence of the Blue Week, although with another name, what I regret, and the continuity for the next year, which has already been announced, and that is positive. I just want to put the truth back in this House, Mr. Prime Minister, because yesterday Mrs. Minister of the Sea has committed, here, several serious failures to the truth. First of all, I want to say that last year the statement was adopted unanimously and with acclamation, and I regret that your statement has not made any progress towards last year's. Secondly, I want to say that I regret the level of participation that has been achieved. Just to give some examples, I must say that we had nine ministers of the European Union and four State Secretaries sitting at the table, while you did not have any ministers of the European Union, only three Secretaries of State, in fact, two Secretaries of State and one Deputy Minister. They had no more than one CPLP minister, while we all had.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u163	I ask you to synthesize, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u164	I also want to say that, in order to compose the table, they have agreed to sit at the table of ambassadors and other people, which is regrettable, because the table must sit in political charge. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u165	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u166	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, I thought these sessions were for the current government to hold accounts and not for you to continue to be justified by your mandate as Minister of Agriculture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u167	You lie scandalously and you must restore the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u168	But if I may, with all my humility, I will record, in due account, your advice on the setting of meetings, but now I ask you, in all your great wisdom, to record also what I am going to say. The Juncker Plan is even a debt-based financing plan because it is a EIB-based plan. Therefore, Mrs. Member, when she asks how many projects we have already applied for the Juncker Plan, she must remember that question when she says that we are going to apply for projects for Juncker to indebted us and that this is the worst socialist revenue, to resort to loans from the European Investment Bank. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] Madam Member, I hope that, within 15 days, you are no longer in your role as Minister of Agriculture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u169	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u170	Mr President, Prime Minister, it has already been a long time since this debate, but I heard the PSD intervention recently, as the Prime Minister finally drew attention to the PSD version of the previous mandate, i.e. the PSD / Government version, which said he admitted to privatizing the General Deposit Box. The PSD version in the current mandate, i.e. the PSD / Opposition version says it does not question the public nature of the General Deposit Box. Mr. Prime Minister, another conclusion to be drawn: the PSD and the CDS are really in opposition, there is no doubt at all! On the capitalization of the General Deposit Box, it is important to say that one cannot match the recapitalisation in the private bank, for a very simple reason, is that the shareholder is the State and the State has obligations. It is the case, Mr Prime Minister, that the European Commission, in that wave of pressure on States and also on the financial system, puts pressure on it to be something similar. Now, what I think the Portuguese need to have, in terms of guarantee, by the Government is this, Prime Minister: can we count on the Government to reject pressure, to resist any pressure, which will require the closure of balconies or the dismissal of workers in the General Deposit Box as a requirement? I believe that Mr. Prime Minister should give this assurance today. In addition, it is unacceptable to mention any dismissals in the General Deposit Box and, on the other hand, to ensure good and bad wages for cash administrators. Mr. Prime Minister, if wages do good workers and good administrators, they do - everywhere, and what is unacceptable is we are going to ensure loud wages for some and freeze wages for others. That's not it! So, there are things here that need to be moralized, otherwise, the Portuguese can't understand them. So I want to inform you, although I have already done it here in this House, that The Greens are also finalizing a bill to limit the salaries of public managers, because we consider it to be a matter of morality. I will wait for Mr. Prime Minister's answers to these questions to put the others.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u171	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u172	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, thank you very much for the question you have put to me. On one of the parts of the issue, I answered when I said that the diploma plans to end the false ceiling that existed in the maturity of the General Deposit Box. None of the current administrators of the General Deposit Box earns a lower salary than the Prime Minister. Everyone wins for the exception of the winnings they had before and all have a significantly higher order than the famous ceiling that they say existed, which was that of the Prime Minister's maturity. So there was no roof. What happened was that everyone won in function not than the shareholder state laid down but what they had earned in the previous job. Now, what we are now having is a maturity set by a committee of salaries, for which the State will set the guideline, and the orientation we believe is fair and correct is that in the General Deposit Box a wage level corresponding to the average wage level in the Portuguese banking system is practised. We are talking about the largest national bank and it is necessary to have a national bank with good conditions to compete, either in the administration or about its employees. From what I know, the restructuring plan which is being discussed does not provide for layoffs, but rather for the pursuit of a staff policy which, in view of the normal rotation of the reforms, there is a reduction in the number of staff, as in fact has happened in the banking system as a whole, as a result of the automation of a large part of the operations, of the dematerialization of a large part of the operations and of the fact that we all, as we know, have a separate relationship with the counters of what we had been 10 years or 15 years ago. But at the moment, of what I know of the plan, no layoffs are planned, what is expected is a normal rotation, taking into account the reforms. As regards counters, there will certainly be a great national network, which is absolutely fundamental, and, as I said recently, we must maintain our strategic position on the international market. Now, you need to look at the different international positions of the Box, it is to realize where the presence is strategic and where it is not strategic and there, yes, there can effectively be a reduction of balconies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u173	You have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u174	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am concerned about the question of the reduction of balconies and what this may involve in terms of staff, but I believe that the Prime Minister's assurance that there will be no redundancies of workers in the General Deposit Box. I think it's important that we write that down. Mr. Prime Minister, I would also like to ask a question related to the matter of the Sines / Caia railway connection. This link is structural for the country, but we know that the tracing it is pointed out has negative implications, particularly with regard to isolation of neighborhoods, noise, mobility problems and even questioning the landscape area classified by UNESCO. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to have the Government's assurance that there is availability to study other trace alternatives. I am asking this question because I have already seen contradictory information from the government and I would like to have this guarantee, although I know that railway links are decisive, but the plots are not of sole importance. Mr President, even to conclude, I would like to say the following: Mr Prime Minister certainly noted that last day 11 there was a major Iberian demonstration calling for the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. What we asked of the Spanish Government was the closure of this nuclear power plant, what those protesters asked the Portuguese government...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u175	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u176	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, what those protesters asked the Portuguese Government was to be more proactive with the Spanish Government, in order to indicate the express will that we would like to see that closed nuclear power plant, insofar as it constitutes a real danger to our Tejo river, our people and our territory. [[Congratulations from The Greens and some Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u177	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u178	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, with regard to the Almaraz nuclear power plant, what I can add again, with regard to what I said at the penultimate meeting, is that the meeting of the Technical Committee with the Regulatory Commission for Nuclear Installation Safety ( COMRSIN ) is already scheduled for next 8 July, as requested by Portugal, in order to make the situation point and ensure security conditions. The reports we have had monthly continue to reveal a zero degree of security risks, but we have this marked technical meeting and, once a government is formed in Spain, after the next elections, we will be able to establish new contacts at another level. Finally, and because the time I have is already exceeded, the work of the railway connection between Sines and Caia is a fundamental part of our railway plan, it is fundamental to value the port of Sines, it is fundamental to value the whole of the Alentejo, but we know well the various difficulties that the plot has, either from an environmental point of view, or from the point of view of the insertion of the tracing—...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u179	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u180	...I will now conclude, Mr President, in particular in the city of Évora. at this time, Mr. Minister has been assessing, either with the autoarchs, or with the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ), the revision of the treaty, in order to minimize the negative impacts of this work, which is essential for the country, which we have to minimize, either in the urban habitat, or in the natural habitat that is crossed by the corridor. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u181	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u182	Mr President, Prime Minister, more and more Portuguese want to consume products of biological origin and there are more and more young people who want to dedicate themselves to this way of producing food. Active farmers who want to dedicate themselves to organic agriculture have, however, found in the Administration, at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture, enough resistance to develop their projects. over the years, the Ministry of Agriculture has not renewed its frameworks and the training of its technicians in organic agriculture is sometimes deficient. This lack of training also tends to penalise the candidatures of investment projects in organic agriculture due to lack of knowledge of who evaluates them. We want to contribute to overcoming this barrier with a suggestion, which we consider to be very easy to implement and resolve: to form, quickly, intensively and adequately, two technicians in each Regional Directorate of Agriculture. Thus, a first response is given to an increasing need. I would like to be able to comment on this issue, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u183	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u184	Mr President, Mr André Silva, the Government appreciates the importance of organic agriculture and therefore has already published in the Journal of the Republic the creation of a working group to present the national strategy for organic agriculture by 31 October. Regarding the Regional Development Programme, two types of support for organic agriculture were created: one aimed at specific compensation for support for conversion to organic agriculture and another aimed at investment support in new organic farming farms. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u185	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u186	Mr. Prime Minister, it was reported this weekend that the Government, through the Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature, intends to recruit more 20 nature watchers, starting in 2017, a problem for which the NAP has been warning several times in recent months. The profession of nature's vigilante has been neglected by successive governments since 1999 and therefore we must congratulate the Government on this intention. But, Prime Minister, it is a very small number for the needs that occur. The current effect is 115 professionals, and this number is clearly insufficient for their functions. The latest incorporation took place in 2011 and five elements were integrated. in the last six years, seven vigilantes have retired. Every year this professional structure suffers from a reduction and, on the other hand, increases the places that need its intervention. The staff of the extinct Institute for Conservation of Nature and Biodiversity had a planned number of vacancies of 267 vigilantes for an effective defense of our ecosystems.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u187	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u188	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister, the NAP and the Portuguese expect much more from this Government in terms of the protection of nature, of our common house, so we will not stop bringing this issue to debate, demanding greater reinforcement of the body of nature vigilantes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u189	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u190	Mr President, Mr André Silva, it is true that we have to make a great effort to strengthen the framework of nature watchers, despite the important support that other institutions, including the Nature and Environment Protection Service and the Republican National Guard Protection and Relief Action Group, have provided and is absolutely of utmost importance. But, as I have said, the reinforcement already contracted at the moment means a 16, 5 % reinforcement in relation to the pre-existing situation. You will say that it does not solve everything, it is true, but an effort of 16, 5 % under the very demanding conditions of this budget implementation is an effort which, unfortunately, we cannot ensure in all services where there is a shortage of personnel and we want, with this effort, to give a good example of how it is a priority, indeed, to strengthen this body of nature watchers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-15.u191	At the end of this fortnightly debate, I wish Mr Prime Minister and the Members very early. Members of the Government. Tomorrow, Thursday, we will have a plenary meeting for 3 p.m. on the agenda consisting of: the urgent debate required by the Greens on the Transatlantic Partnership Agreement on Trade and Investment ( TTIP ) and the Global Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ) ; the general discussion of the proposals of lein. 23 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes a system for the reimbursement of fuel taxes for freight transport undertakings by amending the Code of Special Consumption Taxes, approved by Decree-Law No 73 / 2010 of 21 June 2010 and the General Tax Infringement Scheme, approved by Law No 15 / 2011 of 5 June, 22 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The second amendment to Law No 7 / 2007 of 5 February 2007 establishing the citizenship card and governing its issue and use, to the first amendment to Law No 37 / 2014 of 26 June 2014 establishing an alternative and voluntary system for the authentication of citizens at the portals and websites of the Public Administration called the Digital Mobile Key and to the sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 83 / 2000 of 11 May approving the legal regime for the granting and issuing of passports, and 24 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 61 / 2014 of 26 August which approves the special scheme applicable to deferred tax assets; by the assessment of the 2014 General Account of the State ; by the debate, in general and together, of the projects of lein. 111 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Inclusion of a vegetarian option in all public canteens ( PAN), 265 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the inclusion of the vegetarian option in meals in public canteens ( BE) and 268 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Vegetarian plant in the public canteens (The Greens) ; and, in the end, shall proceed to the statutory votes. I wish everyone a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 59 minutes.]]
