ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u1	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. The proposals of lein. 28 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt the new legal regime on the installation and exploitation of plants in marine waters, including transitional waters, and inland waters, 29 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the general principles and rules relating to the organisation of public tender procedures for the award by contract of concessions intended exclusively for the exploitation of municipal networks for the distribution of low voltage electricity and 30 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System adopted by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August 2013 which falls to 1. the Commission. motions for resolutions Nos 20 / XIII ( 2 ) were also introduced. ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on the European Satellite Navigation Programmes, signed in Brussels on 18 December 2013, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 21 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on Biomedical Research, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 25 January 2005 which falls to 2. the Commission, 22 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on the Transplantation of Organs and Fabrics of Human Origin, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 24 January 2002, which falls to 2. the Commission, and 23 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Moldova on International Road Transport of Passengers and Goods signed in Lisbon on 28 May 2014 which falls to 2. the Commission. They also entered the projects of lein.o 298XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Prohibits the increase in public higher education ( CFP ), 299 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ( Framework Law of Regulatory Entities ) ( CDS-PP ), 300 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the National Cadastral Information System ( SNIC ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 301 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Exempt from VAT the provision of services in the exercise of non-conventional therapeutic professions recognized by Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( BE) and 302 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — End of abusive geographical and functional mobility clauses ( BE ), which fall to 10. the Commission. Draft resolutions No 465 / XIII were also introduced ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the nullity of the interpretation by the Tax Authority in respect of the retroactive collection of VAT on the provision of non-conventional therapeutic services regulated by Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( CDS-PP ), 466 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Dessorption of the Aveiro River ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 467 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of an effective intermodal transport system in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto ( BE ) and 468 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Cuba, Cartagena and Brasília ( President of the HR ). Parliamentary assessments were also entered 21 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 41 / 2016 of 1 August, which, in the use of the legislative authorisation granted by Article 131. Article 140 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) o and by Articles 148. a 150. o, 156. o, 166. o is 169. that of Law No 7 -A / 2016 of 30 March, amends the Code of Seal Tax, the Code of Single Circulation Tax, the Code of Tax on Added Value, the Decree-Law No 185 / 86 of 14 July, the Code of Tax on the Income of Single Persons, the Code of Tax on the Income of Collective Persons, the system of VAT in intra-Community transactions and the Code of Municipal Tax on Real Estate (BE), 22 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 45 / 2016 of 29 August adopting a set of complementary rules for the transition process of polytechnic higher education teachers regulated by Decree-Law No 207 / 2009 of 31 August, as amended by Law No 7 / 2010 of 13 May ( BE ), and 23 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August approving a doctoral recruitment scheme designed to stimulate scientific and technological employment in all areas of knowledge ( BE ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u3	Mrs. Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on our agenda, firstly, the general debate on the proposal for a law No 28/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt the new legal regime on the installation and exploitation of plants in marine waters, including transitional waters, and inland waters; secondly, the general discussion of the proposed law No 29/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the general principles and rules relating to the organisation of public tender procedures for the exclusive operation of municipal networks for the distribution of low voltage electricity; thirdly, the assessment of Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, which amends the Statute of the Public Manager, approved by Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March, as amended by Law No 64 -A / 2008 of 31 December, and Decree-Law No 8 / 2012 of 18 January [ Parliamentary assessments 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) and 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PSD ) ; and, finally, the general discussion of the projects of lein.o 250 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Confirms the intermodal social pass as a title in all collective passenger transport and updates the geographical scope of their crowns in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon ( CFP ) and 286 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrate the Andante, intermodal social pass of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, as a title in all collective passenger transports and update the geographical scope of the respective zone ( PCP ), together with draft resolution No 467 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of an effective intermodal transport system in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto ( BE ). Mrs. Members, let us begin the discussion, in general, of Bill No 28 / XIII ( 2 ). (a) — Authorizes the Government to adopt the new legal regime on the installation and operation of plants in marine waters, including transitional waters, and inland waters. To present the bill, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of the Sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a pleasure to be in this House, especially in order to bring to your consideration a bill of legislative authorization which, to be approved by VV. Ex., will completely revolutionize the activity of aquaculture, allowing the growth of aquaculture production and, at the same time, the growth of the economy of the sea. It is stressed that during the drafting of the proposed authorization law and the authorized decree, economic agents and industry associations have been monitoring the evolution of the proposal and, of course, we are available to improve the authorized decree with the support of VV. Ex.. The new licensing scheme provides for a private and private-sector activity of the State, which may be by prior notice with time or authorization ; provides for a public-sector activity of the State, through the blue-and-blue licensing, is the only circumstance in which a licence with a validity of more than 25 years will be possible ; and provides for a general licence, with a valid title for the period of 25 years or 10 years, in the case of waste water rejection. The characteristics of the authorized decree are significant in terms of administrative simplification and speed. A single title, which enables the activity to be carried out, is provided for processing through the employer’s counter and is also provided for the existence of a single licensing coordinating entity, such as the manager’s figure. All georeferenced information, the legal framework of the activity, forms and other information relevant to investors is already available in the Aquaculture Area. As a rule, we want to pass the three-year leave period to three months without this being a loss of quality or rigour. We want to boost aquaculture activity by doubling its production from 10 000 to 20 000 tonnes by the end of 2020. We will therefore contribute to food self-sufficiency, as well as to reducing fish imports and promoting exportation of fishery and sea products. We want to promote aquaculture in a framework of complementarity with traditional fishing. Aquaculture must develop by reconciling the interests of both sectors and taking advantage, wherever possible, of the knowledge and skills of traditional fishermen in aquaculture activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u5	I would like to congratulate Mrs. Minister of the Sea. Mr João Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Minister of State, later on, I will make an intervention in which I will present the CFP's position on this initiative, but now I would like to ask a few questions. The first question I put has to do with the entities that have been heard to prepare this initiative. I would like the Minister to inform us whether the Portuguese Association of Aquaculturers ( APA ) was heard, the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ) or, for example, the Union of Southern Fisheries Workers, which has a large intervention heritage in defense of the vivairists in the Formosa River. in the proposed law, there is a reference to marine waters and inland waters in the private domain. In principle, the seas and rivers are always in the public domain. Since there is some confusion in this matter, I would like the Minister to clarify it. There is another question that I would like to raise and which has to do with the fact that this initiative is encouraging aquaculture production. Therefore, I wonder whether there will also be incentives for the organization of production and marketing, in particular a stimulus for the emergence of producer cooperatives. Mr Minister, the last question I ask you has to do with concessions. The scheme of concessions which is planned is for 25 years and may extend to 50 years. It is true that it is suitable for the characteristics of the farms, but none of the diplomas speak of a reversal of this concession scheme. Given that we are talking about public domain, it would be important to have a reference to the issue of reversal. I would like to ask that there be some information in the field of specialization concerning areas likely to be set up, the number and type of applications, so that we can be more sure of the decisions we have taken on this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u7	Madam Minister, the Bureau records the inclusion of another Member to request clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u8	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u9	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Minister, in fact, the aquaculture sector has great potential for growth in Portugal and we even consider that the changes proposed by the Government, globally, can contribute to the increase in this sector. There are, however, a number of concerns that we cannot fail to note and I think it would also be important to hear what the government has to say about these concerns. It began precisely by referring to the speeding up of procedures and, in particular, to the shortening of deadlines during the operating licensing process, which is part of the diploma and, in fact, the Minister had the opportunity to refer to her in her speech. The passage from three years' leave — such bureaucratic martyrdom — for about three months is, in the opinion of the Greens, too ambitious, because when we move from 80 to 8 we can certainly take risks, and it is necessary to know whether the government has these controlled risks. We also have reservations about shortening the deadlines for public entities that are consulted to give their opinion. This period passes from 20 to 10 days and, with the difficulties existing in the various public services due to the lack of workers who over the last four years, have been leaving without the necessary renewal, we believe that this will create more pressure in the services, making it difficult to analyze carefully and rigorously what these processes require. Therefore, it is important to know whether the government has controlled this in order to realize that there is no risk in terms of the rigor of the analysis that the processes require with this shortening of deadlines. Another element which has not been very clear to the Greens in this Government proposal has to do with the different operating regimes that can occur, be it extensive culture, be it semi-intensive culture, be it intensive culture. Question : are they all subject to the same procedures and evaluated equally? Finally, it should also be pointed out that, in our view, we must not lose sight of the fact that, in conjunction with this proposal, there is the planning plan for the maritime space referred to in the law establishing the political bases for the planning and management of the national maritime space. However, in this planning plan, the areas of implementation of aquaculture projects are identified. As we know — the public has come through the media — there are several situations of unpleasantness and concern on the part of fishermen about the overlapping of uses and possible conflicts generated on small craft fishing. In other words, these concerns show that we will have to be very clear about what we want both for the territory and for businesses and, above all, for people and for fishermen. Even to conclude, Mrs Minister, we believe it is absolutely essential to invest seriously in national research, particularly in the best sustainable aquaculture practices, in order to ensure that growth in this area is ecologically balanced, as well as food quality and safety for consumers must be adequately ensured. I think it was important for the Minister to tell us whether she also shares these concerns that the Greens have about the need to invest in research and whether the Government really wants to invest in research in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u11	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of the Sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking you for the questions you have raised. Of course, very varied entities have been heard. The Portuguese Association of Aquaculturers was heard and, through this, several associations, including the Cooperative of the Formosa River, associations of farmers and even fishing producers. If legislative authorization is granted, we will continue this work together with all these associations and with the parliamentary groups that understand it. On the question that has been put about concessions, I must say that these are not concessions but licences. No concessions are provided but four different types of licences, and in relation to all of them, if the rules imposed by the licence are not complied with, the licence will be withdrawn. However, I do not have time to answer all the questions, but I would like to raise some very important issues that we think are important and that are related not only to the hearing of the IPMA but also to the need to have a strong stake in research in this area of aquaculture that is closely related not only to local species but also to the framework in which aquaculture is made and by whom it is done. Therefore, not only has IPMA been heard as there are research programs, which are currently being funded through IPMA, along with the entities so that you can...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u13	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u14	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying only that from three years to three months it can never be achieved at the expense of rigour. It has to be achieved at the expense of planning, of greater planning. In other words, the State needs to know exactly what it can do where and by knowing exactly what it can do where and how it can license much more quickly and not veto the drawer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u15	Mr Ulisses Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u16	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: in our view, strengthening the economy of the sea is necessarily to allow the aquaculture sector with very favourable conditions of growth in our country to be strengthened and guaranteed conditions for sustainable growth. This was the position of the former Government which, in a logic of complementarity with extractive fishing, opened up several obstacles to the growth of the sector, attempting to induce measures to attract productive investment in this area. It was in this sense that new offshore aquaculture areas were created with pre-licensing of activity, space and the environment and introduced legislative changes to the level of procedures and taxation, with a view to increasing the competitiveness of aquaculture companies in Portugal. The extension of the gas oil subsidy to aquaculture was carried out and the scheme of subsidized insurance for businesses in the area was established, allowing the mitigation of the risks of activity, in addition to the creation of the current law on the basis of the planning and management of the national maritime space, which was consensualized in this Parliament, having been approved with the votes of the PSD, PS and CDS, being rightly stressed the important role that, in this process of consensualization, had then Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino and our colleague Cristóvão Norte. This is an innovative law that adds the various dimensions of the sea to a single legal instrument and allows a long-term sustainable strategic vision of the various activities developed at sea, including aquaculture, which facilitates new developments in simplification processes, which are always to be welcomed. Mrs. Members, the PSD will make it possible to discuss the speciality of this bill, hoping that the government will be able to introduce into the law decree which is set out in annex aspects that are important for improving aquaculture activity and that correspond to the sector's wishes. From then on, the care that must be based on the preparation of the sectoral plan, with the planning of existing production areas, expansion areas and new production areas respecting the secular interests of other activities, in particular extractive fishing. It is that the diploma seems to be omitted in the definition of conflicts between different activities to be carried out at sea in a particular area. On the other hand, we must ensure that the deadlines for use are in accordance with the basic law, which does not seem to us entirely cautious in the version of the bill that is presented. There are other important steps for the sector that we hope can be made as quickly as possible, in accordance with the commitments of the Minister of the Sea. In particular, the transfer, within IMI (municipal property tax), from urban buildings and aquaculture land to rustics, the end of the elitist prejudice regarding the value added tax of oysters and the implementation of support for green electricity. As always, the PSD will defend appropriate measures for the competitiveness of our companies and for attracting investment, in this case in a promising area of the sea economy. Let us hope that Portugal will be able to keep this activity at sea and that the parties supporting the government — PCP and Block, in particular — will not make this way of growth and development in our country. If it were for them, the basic law would never have been approved and, consequently, this proposal would not be viable. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u17	For an intervention, Mr. João Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u18	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) calculated by 2010 a global value of the sea economy amounting to $1.5 trillion with around 31 million jobs. For aquaculture it points to 3 billion dollars and about 2 million jobs. in a prospective analysis, it refers to the duplication of the value of the sea economy by 2030, providing for an increase of the value of aquaculture in the order of 303 %, a growth of the number of jobs of 152 %. In Portugal, this theme is also of particular importance. A consumption of 60 kg of sea products per capita per year is estimated, which places us in the countries with the highest consumption in the European Union. At the same time, there is a reduction in the capacity to respond to this demand. Today, less than 60 % of fishery products are downloaded in Portugal than they were 50 years ago. Several studies indicate that 80 % of fish species are already in overfishing in European waters. We import more than 50 % of the fisheries we consume, reflecting an estimated trade balance deficit of more than EUR 500 million. Aquaculture seems to correspond to this type of concern. On the one hand, allowing to increase supply in the face of existing demand and, on the other, reducing the pressure on wild resources, promoting their sustainability as high-quality products and thus of high added value. It seems clear the potential of aquaculture in the development of the sea economy. It is important to respond to the main concerns referred to by representatives of the sector, such as legislative and procedural simplification, the articulation of the different entities involved and the fight against the costs of context. It is therefore necessary to update existing regulations, as recommended by this proposal for legislative authorisation. We emphasize, in particular, the simplification of the legislative process by integrating various diplomas; the simplification of installation and exploitation procedures; the simplification of the procedure for obtaining a title of use; the creation of a single title that enables the exercise of the activity; the restoration of validity deadlines, with the definition of the assumptions and their procedural processing, the type of licence, the licence in relation to the location, renewal and transmission of securities, as well as the modification of the establishment or operating conditions. This proposal follows up the Programme approved in this House by the XXI Constitutional Government, with regard to a strong bet on the economy of the sea, in an integrated process with the Simple 2016, promoting the simplification and reduction of context costs. It also reiterates the challenge of creating conditions for an aquaculture that meets the existing and future needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u19	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u20	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We consider positive initiatives for the recovery of sovereignty and development of food production in our country. in this case, aquaculture may benefit from this will. The deburocratization of some processes that constitute an impediment to its development is an idea with which we identify ourselves. We believe that this is a sector that deserves our attention; however, we believe it is not to be warned only of the advantages, ignoring the disadvantages of aquaculture production. Many point to the diet of the various species as one of the greatest problems associated with this practice, since, according to some authors, 3 kg of feed is needed for the production of 1 kg of fish under aquaculture, and this regime may not be sustainable and contribute to the increase of the pressure already exerted on fish communities. As is known, this initiative derives, among other reasons, from the law establishing the basis of the policy of planning and management of the national maritime area, which was, in turn, guided by the European Directive establishing a framework for the planning of the maritime area and integrated coastal management. This law, approved in the previous legislation under the PSD majority / CDS, allowed the granting of sea areas or volumes up to 75 years in the case of blue concession and 50 years in the general concessions, which already seemed to us wrong at that time. One of its main driving lines was to guarantee legal conditions for the privatization of sea plots for a long time, and it can be used for aquaculture but also for the exploitation of resources such as hydrocarbons, which, as you have seen recently and if you are seeing, suffers a huge challenge by the Portuguese population, particularly in the Algarve. Syntomically, the law clarifys the question of conflict of uses and activities in maritime space and defines its priorities in an absolutely predatory way. The purpose of profit overlaps with any other, even ignoring the extractive fishing that has fed thousands of families since ancient times. It will be said that it is the cost of progress. But progress cannot be at any price. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u21	The law of bases that opened the field to this new proposal does not zebra or defend the activities carried out historically, such as traditional fishing, important employer force and identity matrix of the communities. What we have today also omits its existence. The minimum requirement was that an impact assessment of the affected populations and organizations should be required for the licensing of the exploitation of a plot of marine space. On that, nothing is said. on the contrary, this initiative seems to ignore an entire sector whose business fabric is made of micro and small enterprises, with little negotiating capacity. The omission of your mandatory consultation, to be maintained, will be an option that we do not follow. In addition to this, we have other reservations that we would like to see resolved. The deadlines for granting are unnecessarily long, in our view. We're talking about 25 years that can automatically be extended to 50. Maximum limits should also be set for the areas to be allocated for aquaculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u22	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u23	I shall conclude, Mr President. The procedural deadlines are too tight. Moreover, we believe that the projects should be put in public consultation and defended the rights of fishermen. In short, the new law, in order to be fair, should make aquaculture, fisheries and environmental protection compatible, as the Minister has just said. We would like to follow up with the government if the change had already clearly pointed to this. Otherwise, as you are right now, we cannot follow the proposed initiative yet. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u24	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The assessment that the CFP makes of the country's situation and the evolution of our economy points to the causes of the destruction of the productive sectors with the consequent reduction of national production. Therefore, the reversal of the country's economic and social situation is due to the defence of the productive sectors and national production, in particular the development of primary sectors and food production as a form of guarantee of food sovereignty and security. in this context, the CFP has defended the development of aquaculture and, as such, in the electoral commitment for 2015 legislation, has entered the « strengthening of aquaculture, in the face of natural favourable conditions ». The use and internal appreciation of the country's endogenous resources and among these resources identifies aquaculture is as essential. The CFP monitors the need for measures to promote the development of this productive sector, such measures that ensure the balance between the need and the conditions to produce and its development in public domain, safeguarding the interests of both, and compatible the different uses of the territories and the means in which the activities take place, ensuring that the development of aquaculture is not done at the expense of the historical rights of artisanal and coastal fishing. The CFP expresses its willingness to intervene in the field of expertise so that a scheme can be created that serves the interests of aquaculture and safeguards the aspects which I have just stated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u26	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : We are legislating the unsustainable. The government wants to triple fish production by 2023 through aquaculture and this document so sign: we will speed up the licensing processes, short-term, which are already recalled, to obtain opinions from entities such as APA or the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature et Foresta) and everything in the name of unlimited progress and growth. However, aquaculture production is largely unsustainable under any production regime. Depending on the species created, it is necessary between 3 kg and 20 kg of wild fish to produce 1 kg of fish in aquaculture. And what food will this be? Process of industrial fish pulp. And even if you opt for cereal-based rations, you are dependent on a property whose import is around 90 %, the majority of which are transgenic. We legislate the unsustainable! With these strategies, the Ministry of the Sea deverts its purpose of protecting marine resources and looks more like a cabinet of the Ministry of Economics and devoted student of the European ideology of the blue economy, which is nothing more than a subsystem of an obsolete paradigm of consumption and unlimited growth. So they manage and legislate the resources of all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u28	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by welcoming Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and saying that this bill follows the enormous work that has been carried out in the previous government, the PSD/CDS, by the dynamization and development of the aquaculture sector and all activities linked to the sea. This is particularly important because Portugal is a country where per capita consumption of fish is far above the European average, fisheries resources are not unlimited and therefore aquaculture is, in our view, a potential that we should develop. As regards the work that has been carried out in recent years, the law on the basis of planning and management of the maritime area, which has had a large contribution from this House to its preparation, as already mentioned here, is the legal basis for all economic activities of the sea and which has already provided much of what this bill, which we have discussed today, provides and which is, in essence, the corollary of the law of bases. in our understanding, the CDS promotes and defends, as far as possible, the simplification and reduction of all costs of context and therefore we have seen with good eye much of the measures that are proposed, taking into account that the costs of context are a major obstacle to the economic development of our country. Therefore, in our view, the creation of a single title, which is obviously preserved, all the opinions that are necessary for its obtaining, as well as the fact that the issue of this title is via the employer's desk—as was already provided for in the law of bases—are positive aspects, and that sharing of data within the Public Administration is, for us, fundamental, because it makes no sense that the citizen is delivering documents in the various departments of the Administration for several times. On the other hand, we also believe that the deadlines for licences can be increased, because this will bring greater stability and greater confidence to investors who, when they make an investment, have to be guaranteed the return of their capital, and here we disagree with the opinion of that side of Parliament on this matter. I would like to say that, as a specialist, we will have the opportunity to make contributions and work more particularly on some points. However, I would also like to leave two or three questions. With regard to the reduction of the period from three years to three months, in fact, it seems to us very ambitious and, therefore, I ask you, Minister, when it is — and here you have already said that it is a work that is being done — you believe that this is possible, and we would all like it to be so. I would also like to express our concern at the importance of clarifying the role of the authorities in the law, because, as already mentioned here, the growing movement of septics and of contestation regarding activities in the maritime area—as very recently, in Olhão, we have had news of dispute regarding an aquaculture and negative opinions of the House—leads that it is necessary to be defined...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u30	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u31	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, I think it would be essential to define the roles of each one in this matter. in this sense, and to conclude, I think it would be essential information actions to explain what this is specifically, so that there are no ideological opinions and ideas contrary to this activity. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u32	Mrs. Members, concluded the general discussion of the bill No 28/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), we move on to point 2 of the agenda, with the discussion, also in general, of Bill No. 29 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the general principles and rules relating to the organisation of public tender procedures for the award by contract of concessions intended exclusively for the exploitation of municipal networks for the distribution of low voltage electricity. To present the diploma, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Energy, and I take advantage of it to say goodbye to Mr. Minister of the Sea. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: By order of the Government, and following liaison with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) a contact group was established consisting of representatives of this Government, the ERSE ( Regulatory Entity for Energy Services ), the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology and the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities with the task of proposing the general principles and rules relating to the organisation of public tender procedures for the award by contract of concessions intended exclusively for the exploitation of municipal networks for the distribution of low voltage electricity. This work is the basis of the bill that the Government today puts to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic. The main objective is to guarantee the authorities the conditions for access to a legal regime that enables them to carry out new contracts for the distribution of low voltage electricity in the liberalised market and to guarantee territorial cohesion. It will be the first time that these concessions will be awarded by tender and it should be noted that the current concessions were made by law in a legal process that has come since 1982 when the EDP (Energy of Portugal) was still a fully owned company by the Portuguese State. It will be a challenge in which leadership will be forced by municipalities with the support of the Government, the regulator and the Public Administration, and that concessions should obey principles such as: safeguarding financial neutrality for electricity consumers and for State budgeting; promoting energy efficiency, economic efficiency and the conditions of effective performance of the system to be granted; promoting territorial cohesion both as regards the profitability of concessions and as regards the level of quality of service provided; and the uniform pricing of our country. In order to achieve these objectives we will make the synchronised launch of the competitions at a pre-established common date — 2019 —, in order to maximize the consistency and articulation of the numerous award procedures, creating favourable conditions for the formation of the procedural groupings and thus providing for wider competition, and we will ensure that the area covered by each procedure observes the principle of territorial coherence, preferably using the territorial delimitation of the inter-municipal entities, unless there are substantial reasons for determining different criteria. A final word of thanks to the contact group of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, ERSE and the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology, in particular its coordinator, who has so far developed this work in my Cabinet, Eng. Mário Paulo, who, with altruism and high sense for the public interest, has contributed to this work which now begins and which will be done for the benefit of Portuguese consumers and municipalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u34	Mr António Topa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: This proposal for a law seeks to adopt the general principles and rules relating to the organisation of public tender procedures for the award, by administrative contract, of concessions intended exclusively for the pursuit of the operation of municipal networks for the distribution of low voltage electricity in the Portuguese mainland territory. The legislation since 1982, with successive changes to date, commits to municipalities the distribution of low voltage electricity in the continent, and this public service activity can be carried out under direct or indirect exploitation. With successive amendments to the law, in particular through the transposition of Community directives, legal diplomas maintained the activity of low-voltage distribution in the municipal sphere, their concessions granted by the competent bodies of each municipality or association of municipalities, following public tender, activities carried out under public service and also the basis of distribution concessions. From 2013 onwards, the status of inter-municipal entities was approved, in particular the legal regime of autarchical associivism, available to the municipalities of powers in the field of energy. This bill is appropriate due to some contracts for the granting of low voltage electricity networks ending in 2016 and 2017, in particular the municipality of São João da Madeira, while the vast majority ends in 2021 and 2022 and a small number in 2026. The joint and synchronised launch of the competitions on a pre-established date, common in 2019, creating conditions for the formation of procedural groupings, providing for wider competition. General principles, such as the principles of financial neutrality, efficiency and profitability of concessions and solidarity between municipalities, safeguarding territorial cohesion, tariff uniformity on the continent and autonomous regions, quality of service and energy efficiency of public lighting are identified. It is called attention to the fundamental role that ERSE will play in this process, in order to ensure the efficiency and strict need for investments to be carried out, through coherent work programmes, without extravagance, in order to ensure that there is no aggravated penalty for domestic, industrial and service consumers at network usage rates. Also in the concessions to be carried out have an important role for municipalities, which should monitor the performance of contracts, a situation which has not been taken seriously in the last two contracts. Thus, this legislation is important for municipalities, stating that: the grant is paid by the payment of an annual income, important revenue for municipalities, observing the principles of tariff uniformity and equalization of concessional profitability; it provides for the non-increase of tariffs; it promotes energy efficiency and the quality of the service to be provided; it can better solve the problems of public lighting, including cost reduction, promote energy efficiency and improve quality. for the first time, the tendering of the concession will be carried out on a liberalised and competitive market, which may allow for greater profitability for municipalities and at the same time improve the quality of the interventions and the service provided. This bill results from the work of a group made up for the purpose of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the ERSE and the Directorate-General for Energy, which is to be noted. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u36	Mr Hugo Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Energy issues are crucial to the sustainability of the country, and the government — and well! — has sought to make the energy sector more sustainable and efficient, defending the public interest and consumers, particularly the most vulnerable, through various measures, including the social electricity tariff. This is the brand of the PS Government in this area: sustainability, efficiency, defence of the public interest and consumer protection. Today we are debating the first of the energy concessions in this Parliament. It will certainly be the first of several concessions to be discussed. The diploma currently under discussion is a commitment already established in the Government Programme and a working group set up by the Office of the Secretary of State for Energy. A group where the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities were present, the Regulatory Entity of Energy Services and the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology. In other words, the speakers were present and a diploma was discussed, in particular, in the authorities, which had a central role. Listening to the interested parties, listening to the regulator and only then putting the diploma to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic is a correct principle of action by this government. The synchronisation in 2019 of the low-voltage concessions in electricity contracts, ensuring, of course, the freedom of each authority in respect of the autonomy of local power, essential for the Socialist Party to be able to take its options, continues to be present, and respect for local autonomy, but also for budgetary rigour in a proposal that must be neutral from the budgetary point of view, as well is put. This legislation will allow economies of scale and allow greater efficiency for municipalities and efficiency in the system. Territorial solidarity between areas of greater and lower population density is also guaranteed. This territorial cohesion and the uniformization of tariffs will enable cohesion between the territories and, as I have already said, to standardise tariffs. The principles of territorial cohesion and solidarity between municipalities are historical heritage of the Socialist Party, and they will continue to be. Since the 1980s the legislation has committed to municipalities the distribution of low-voltage electricity. The legislation under discussion will enable real knowledge of existing concessions, which today presents a set of difficulties, namely where each grant begins and ends with real problems in the register. This is a process that will be long, with a lot of technical complexity and will force everyone to make an effort: Government, ERSE and, of course, authorities. from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, here we will be for the debate and to combine efforts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u38	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I would like to tell the Secretary of State for Energy that on this matter the CSD Parliamentary Group has no objection. Many contracts are coming to an end, in different periods but with an announced end, and of course the government would have to say anything about this. It seems to me that this bill provides us with the general principles relating to the organisation and procedure for the public tender for the operation of low voltage municipal networks. However, I would like to say that there has already been a procedure similar to that of gas, with the same principles, with the same objectives, but not always with the expected results. And it had to do with what? Of course, with what I call price, i.e. whether we are actually going to get the price to be uniform and a factor of fair competition in several regions of the country, whether there is security, whether there is reliability and whether there is a reduction in losses. in the background, these are the big issues, when we talk about energy distribution or energy efficiency. I do not have the opinions of ERSE and the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, but, as they were represented in the working group, I find it cheap that there has been a broad consensus on who will manage and who will, in the background, control the application of this procedure. It seems to me that there are indeed 250 million. Mr. Secretary of State says that this is good for the municipalities, which is surely good. It remains to be known whether this cost is transferred to the consumer, because it may be less good for the consumer if there is a transfer of that cost to the consumer. however, I recognize that there are positive aspects. To gain scale, to gain size, to add municipalities trying that same scale can bring reduced costs on exploitation and distribution seems reasonable to me. I would choose four general principles—in fact, Mr Secretary has already referred to them: safeguarding the financial nature for consumers, i.e. the Secretary of State has to tell us how that will be guaranteed; promoting economic efficiency, i.e. we will no longer be in front of any income for the electro-producer sector, but try to make that income no longer a cost paid by taxpayers in the consumer case and, of course, something which is important as being fundamental, which is the safeguard of territorial cohesion, which seems to me to be obvious. We could take the risk, so I would like to know whether this risk is mitigated, in terms of isolated municipalities, of municipalities that may not be able to go to these contests. I mean, is logic gonna be based on what? CIM (Intermunicipal Communities)? National Association of Portuguese Municipalities? Is there a variable geometry to take account of the efficiency of the network and the quality of the service and not so much the territorial organization? I would like to know whether or not all these issues are pondered. For what? In order for the value to be paid to be, of course, fair value, but essentially would leave the costs aside and would go further to the efficiency and quality and reliability of the service, because that is the true territorial cohesion and not these matters. Furthermore, the CDS sees no objection and here we will be able to improve or discuss in detail some of these aspects. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u40	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The privatization of EDP and the liberalisation of the energy sector, particularly electricity, have brought new problems with regard to the granting of low-voltage energy networks in the national territory. Problems that did not arise in the past when municipalities established contracts for the granting and distribution of low voltage electricity — EDP was still a public company. Therefore, the provision of public service was one of its objectives. By now approaching the end of the deadline of these concession contracts, as has already been mentioned — one municipality in 2016, another in 2017, 228 in 2021 and the other until 2027 — there have been many changes in the national electricity system, which requires an intervention in fact. In view of this significant new and different framework of intervention, there are aspects related to territorial cohesion and the public interest that must be properly safeguarded, under the penalty of deepening inequalities in our territory, as well as differing conditions of concession, in particular technical and financial conditions, such as rates and income. For private companies in the sector, what prevails is not the provision of public service; what prevails are economic interests, and we may indeed run the risk of a particular municipality or territory being regarded as profitable from an economic point of view and some municipalities may even have no interest in these companies. We note that the Government brings to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic a legislative initiative that seeks to intervene on the granting of the low voltage electricity grid. The initiative under discussion proposes convergence in the implementation of these competitions for 2019, the economic neutrality or the grouping of municipalities for the launch of the competitive procedure, which in our perspective points to a positive direction. however, there are issues that remain unclear or that cause us doubts. For example, as regards the clustering of municipalities, we believe it is necessary to deepen the most appropriate dimension and geography in relation to this matter. We also ask the reason why the groups of municipalities for the performance of the public tender for the award of the concession must be by administrative contract. We also believe that in this whole process it is important to bear in mind the need to modernise, incorporate technological innovations that enable us to have a more efficient management of resources. in our view, this matter requires intervention at national level, articulated intervention, which contributes to territorial cohesion, which favours public interests so that no territory and no population are penalized. However, there are also issues that require further deepening, analysis and weighting on which best solution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u42	Mr Jorge Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u43	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State for Energy, Mrs. Members: The privatisation of EDP has profoundly changed the framework in which the concession of low voltage network operates. This picture has changed for many years and the relationship of authorities with EDP has suffered with this and has deteriorated over the years to the present. But this is the framework in which the electricity system works today and the proposed law that the Government brings to Parliament precisely aims to guarantee some minimum public interest in this framework aggressively for its guarantee, which is a privatized and concentrated provider on the accumulation of income and benefits. from this point of view, territorial cohesion, the guarantee of financial conditions that protect the public interest vis-à-vis the private interest and concessionaires are important concerns that we welcome and find important to safeguard. Therefore, the convergence in 2019, the search for economic-financial neutrality, the grouping of municipalities and, above all, the concern about the efficiency of the service and the responsibilities in terms of public lighting that EDP has are important concerns that the diploma reflects and that we also share. On the defence of the efficient management of public lighting, which the diploma refers to, I would like to mention the result of a small inquiry which the Left Block carried out with the Portuguese authorities on this issue. There were 74 municipalities, about a quarter of the total municipalities that responded to us, and we verified, in the answers, that we have today, under the domain of EDP, in this concession a system of public lighting completely to the grip of technological innovation and worthy of last century. If it is true that EDP has an obligation to choose the equipment and to seek the appropriate rationality and yield in its choice, the truth is that it has not done so properly and 15 years later we continue to have the same type of public lighting equipment that we had at the beginning of this century. The replacement of mercury equipment only occurred because they were banned and, unfortunately, it was lost the opportunity to reduce the costs of the authorities because EDP finally chose to follow the indications in the annex to Portaria No 454/2001 and its replacement by sodium lamps. However, what happens is that in the few authorities which, using European funds, and not because of the EDP's compliance with their obligations, have installed LED technologies (light emitting diode), there have been very significant energy savings, which is not happening in many other municipalities where EDP has continued to choose to contain its costs, without ensuring the interest of consumers and authorities, reducing the ecological footprint and other responsibilities it has to shoulder as a concessionaire. So what happens is that atomized authorities have less ability to impose public interest on a powerful concessionaire—this example is very illustrative of that—and from this point of view, the concerns that the diploma reflects, of aggregating municipalities, of creating critical mass, of creating a scale in negotiation, are positive concerns that we also want to share. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u44	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Energy, Jorge Seguro Sanches.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to welcome the speeches, because I think they all go constructively, which is this diploma, which already has a broad technical and political consensus at the level of ERSE, the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology and the entities that have been heard in this process. I would also like to share and convey answers to some of the concerns that have been expressed here and which have to do with issues such as this bill and that of this process, which is now beginning, cannot in any way be a burden on consumers or on the State budget. I believe that the conditions in the diploma will effectively ensure that this cannot happen. There are issues that have to do with the territorial balance of our country, with the scope of each of the contests to be launched in the future that have a lot to do with, as it is evident, with the option, which is constitutionally protected, of each of the municipalities. They are the municipalities themselves who will have to say what model they want, although ERSE, the regulator, will have a very important role in this issue. The government is available to work, at the level of its services and technical support, so that the system is as balanced as possible in the future, but here is a role...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u46	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u47	Of course, Mr. President. As I was saying, here is a very important role, which is decisive, that will have to be developed by the municipalities. from there the importance of this process has been initiated, moreover, with a challenge that the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities has made to the government. It is therefore a very long job, the one that will exist in the coming years, this is your first part, but I think, above all, that this debate in the Assembly of the Republic is very relevant for us to sensitize all municipalities to this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u48	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the general assessment of Bill No 29 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), for this reason, we shall now proceed to the evaluation of Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, which amends the Statute of the Public Manager, approved by Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March 2007, as amended by Law No 64 -A / 2008 of 31 December, and Decree-Law No 8 / 2012 of 18 January [ Parliamentary assessments n. 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) and 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PSD ). For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Recently, the PS was urged by the Left Block to lose the shame. And in fact, whoever read this Decree-Law would imagine that the new majority had lost not only shame but also, above all, common sense. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u50	And it is common sense that we will speak today, because the real question here is this: what meaning can it make the managers of the banking system remove—and, as we are talking about the General Deposit Box, then are their administrators—from the Statute of the Public Manager? Oh, my God! That is, in practice, while the Caixa is experiencing difficulties, while we are discussing the closure of balconies and dispensation of 2500 workers, while the workers of the Caixa have their wages and their frozen promotions, as in fact happens with the other workers in the state business sector and with public officials, for the managers of the Caixa no longer have any wage limits, there is no longer any rules and there is no more transparency. It is therefore in good sense that this measure, today, does not pass here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u52	... but it is also consistent, because the CDS has always defended, in opposition and in government, rules and limits for public managers, and for all public managers, and, thirdly, it is still clarification—because, in these things, the time of truth is always the time of vote—to realize, in fact, who agrees with this measure and who disagrees with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u53	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u54	That is the challenge here, and that is what we hope to see here today, or on Friday, when there are votes. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u56	Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We must defend the Portuguese of this left-wing government!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u58	Ui! [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u59	We must defend, as well as the product of your efforts, of this government which crushes them with taxes, which carries them to fuel, to savings and now to the sights and exposure to the sun. [[PS protests.]] At this moment, the Portuguese have already said that this government just needs to cut the air we breathe. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u60	Ui!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u61	But that's just one more of the bad bills left to go to the country. It is also to defend the Portuguese from another injustice that we are here today, which is why the PSD proposes to this Parliament to remove the law that ended with the salaries of the General Deposit Box administrators and has now exempted them from the rules of responsibility, duties and transparency to which all other public managers are subject. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u62	The former Government, PSD / CDS, created legal limits on the salaries of managers of all public companies. Even to the administrators of the private banks that received State support, the PSD/CDS government imposed a 50% cut in fixed wages and prohibited variable remuneration. This would be socially fair, which is unfair and also incomprehensible to people is that, in a time of financial tightening, when so much effort has to be made, and that it has been necessary for us to get out of bankruptcy, public managers have no limits to their salaries and wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u63	And they used to have? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u64	Yes, doing so would be unfair, but the Left Government does not want to know about this social injustice. And in the same year that he prepares to fire 2500 cash workers and to get more than EUR 3000 or 4000 million to the taxpayers to enter the Bank, he eliminates the limits to the salaries of the administrators.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u65	Before, did they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u66	What social justice is this? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u67	PSD reaffirms: the salaries of public managers must be limited by law!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u68	And they used to be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u69	But the government is saying that it is necessary to abolish these limits in order to keep the Box competitive. False! The limits that existed in the previous law were objectives, not discretionary and allowed to attract the best. What did they stop? They prevented someone from coming to the Box to receive what could not be received and that no one paid anywhere else. Now, under the law of this government, any legal limits disappear...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u70	Before, were there limits? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u71	... the salaries of the administrators remain at the discretion of a government which, as it is known, does not want to know about costs or to control public expenditure. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government wanted to increase the number of cash administrators and to increase their salaries. The increase of administrators has already been plummeted by the ECB,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u72	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u73	...we hope that Parliament will now lead to the increase and elimination of the salaries of administrators. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This government has already shown that it does not know how to deal with the Box, we expect the response from the Government of the Left. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u74	Mr José Luís Ferreira wrote to ask for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u75	Mr. President, Mr. Antonio Leitão Amaro,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u76	Now, are you serious?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u77	Yeah, it's serious now. So far, maybe, it wasn't, but now it's serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u78	Now let's get serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u79	It's serious now. The PSD is now concerned about the salaries of public managers... [[PSD protests.]] [[Now?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u80	Yes, now! As I was saying now, the PSD is concerned about the salaries of public managers and says they should be limited by law. But, Mr António Leitão Amaro, next Friday, we will have here, in discussion, a bill by the Greens Ecological Party to moralize the salaries of the administrators of the independent administrative entities, the regulators. And so I look forward to the question: what is the PSD's position on this matter? [[PSD protests.]] Here we go, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! But why is it so uncomfortable? It is because of the previous government, through the Secretary of State of Sérgio Monteiro, that he has appointed an administrator without passing through CRESAP ( Commission for Recruitment and Selection for Portuguese Public Administration ), without passing through the Assembly of the Republic and now aviation companies are challenging the fines that this council... [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and PS Members.]] [[PSD protests.]] We are talking about fines worth 0, 5 million euros, which are now being challenged because the Secretary of State, who should have a medal therefore defend the public interest, appointed an administrator without passing through CRESAP, without passing through the Assembly of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u81	Now, airlines are challenging the decisions of the Board of Directors, which unlawfully acted with fines worth 0, 5 million euros. Therefore, Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro, I would like to ask you how the PSD stands in relation to the need to put a brake on public expenditure, as regards the salaries of the administrators of the independent administrative entities. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u82	To reply, Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u83	Mr President, before replying, I would like to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u84	If you don't mind, first, answer and then...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u85	Mr President, I am sorry, but my question to the Bureau is whether we are doing the debate on the parliamentary assessment scheduled for today or the debate scheduled for Friday.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u86	Mr President, that question is somewhat rhetorical. We know, and therefore, if you do not mind, answer the question put by the honourable Member and then you can ask the same question on Friday. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u87	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, the PSD position on the parliamentary assessment that is at issue here, on the limits to the salaries of the General Deposit Box administrators, is known. And your position, what is it? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u88	He didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u89	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Miguel Tiago.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The CFP has always made it clear, even in previous legislatures, that the wage inequality created by the Statute of the Public Manager, which allows millionaires only for a small number of tables, is not acceptable. For this reason, the CFP is against the current Statute. in the same way, the solution found by the current government does not deserve the agreement of the CFP. It is therefore necessary to create a new wage framework, which does not happen because of the mere repeal of the current government's measure. The regime of the current public manager, determined by the PSD government / CDS, has aggravated injustices and asymmetries that have already been felt in Portugal as regards wage distribution. Looking at wages statistics in Portugal, we see clearly that labour income represents an increasing share of the total GDP and, in contrast, profits, income and interest represent an increasing share. That is, less and less wealth is distributed to workers. But despite this, the highest wages in Portugal do not stop growing at an unmeasured rate and this is particularly felt in the tens of richest individuals: the richest 10% of the population earn more than EUR 2000, but the richest 1% earn more than EUR 5000, the richest 1000 in Portugal earn more than EUR 58 000 and the richest 100 earn more than EUR 175 000, and I am talking about monthly values. The profit curve in Portugal is therefore strongly asymmetric. Thus, the State's remuneration policy must not follow but combat this trend and contribute to a fairer distribution of wealth. That is why the PCP does not support the Decree-Law, approved by the PSD Government / CDS, which sets as a limit for the maturity of a public manager the value received by the public in the average of the last three years in operation. Now, the PS government has legislated not to apply this value as a limit to Box administrators and PCP, as it has always made clear, neither does it support or accept this option. This debate can therefore be an opportunity to set wage limits for public managers and private managers, but it can also be used only as a political maneuver, a number of the PSD and CDS, which, by limiting themselves to demagogy on the subject, seek to reach the General Deposit Box in full recapitalization process. If PSD and CDS want to limit themselves to revoking the government's decree of law, leaving everything as it was before, it is clear that they only want this second objective, using demagogy as a political instrument, allowing work income to continue to be distributed in a deeply asymmetric manner, that public managers continue to receive wages that are obscene when compared to those of the workers they run. If, on the contrary, the various parliamentary groups are available to approve the proposals submitted by the CFP to apply limitations to salaries both in the public and in the private sector, to index pay to the Prime Minister's salary and to contribute to a real reduction in wage asymmetries, then today's debate may result in an improvement in the living conditions of workers in general. If we can understand that PSD and CDS continue to seek to worsen wage inequalities, we cannot, however, accept that the government will be free from legal limits the salaries of the Box administrators at a time when all the other workers are subject to strong limitations and wage cuts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u91	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u92	The simple repeal of the decree does not, however, solve the problem in no way, the answer must therefore be to approve the proposals that the CFP brings here, limit the salaries, distribute more precisely the wealth produced and discipline the wage policy of the State and private entities. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u93	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are witnessing two interventions here, of the CDS and of the PSD, absolutely demagogic, because they have demonstrated an absolutely unacceptable opportunism...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u96	...in the situation in which the country is and, above all, in the situation in which you left the General Deposit Box, and that the Socialist Party has to resolve. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The amendment to the Statute of the Public Manager, made by the Socialist Party, introduced a particularity for the General Deposit Box, but does not cease to be curious that you, between 2014 and 2015, have introduced at least three amendments, three exceptions to this limited situation to the Public Manager. Mrs. Members, just to remember, I mean that you have introduced an exception to IFD ( Financial Institution for Development, SA ), introducing the possibility of being able to take more than the ceiling defined in your own law ; you have introduced an amendment to the Treasury and Public Debt Management Agency, allowing managers to have higher remuneration than the limit set by you;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u97	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u98	... and you introduced an amendment to the General Deposit Box itself, with the same arguments that we use, allowing managers to take remuneration above the limit that you have set. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u99	Those who are not ashamed are the gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u100	Therefore, it is absolutely unacceptable that they are raising this issue right now. They have done all this at the expense of Parliament itself and have prevented Parliament from speaking on this matter. This change of law that the PS has recently consolidated and has also deserved to be welcomed by Mr PSD, President of the Republic, by the President of the Republic, for clarifying the issues of the Statute of the Public Prosecutor. And he deserved applause in his own promulgation message, in which he says the following: « (...) in the General Deposit Box there was no longer ceiling(...) » — i.e. what you are discussing at the moment, the ceiling, no longer existed in the General Deposit Box as I myself said — « (...) and each one was paid according to his past(...) », as you know. But more: Mr President of the Republic has also warned of an essential aspect of your law: « High salaries involve increased responsibility for results ». Now, the law that they have done — and you know that they have done so — has erroneously separated the results of the remuneration and this is a tremendous mistake for what is essential in an administration and for managers, which is encouraging them to achieve the results. And you have done so, separating the performance of managers and administrators from what the expected results are. It is therefore most regrettable that you take advantage of the General Deposit Box situation, in a completely opportunistic attitude, to throw stones on what you are trying to rebuild from the General Deposit Box, on its recapitalization and restructuring. What you want is to maneuver public opinion to prevent this recapitalisation from being successful and to do what you always wanted to do: privatize the General Deposit Box. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u101	Mr Heitor Sousa, of the BE Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD and the CDS bring Parliamentary assessments here that are very similar. Perhaps, it was even combined to be basically written in the same way and ended in the same way. It is that the views that the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups have brought to this House do not have the concrete position that Mr Leitão Amaro of the PSD now brought us here. This is because it is in the name of the defense of the Statute of the Public Manager in force that the PSD demands the rejection of the Decree-Law, which the CDS has not yet said, in the intervention of the Member of the CDS. This situation makes us, of course, announce to the House that, as we do not defend the Statute of the Public Manager in force, we will obviously vote against parliamentary assessments,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u103	... that are raised here in the name of a thing with which we are absolutely nothing in agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u105	The parliamentary assessments brought here by the parliamentary groups on the right are, of course, hypocritical because they want to « cover the sun with a sieve ». In other words, they want to deceive anyone who wants to be mistaken on the essential issue that is under discussion, which is as follows: with, or without, the current Statute of the Public Manager already practises millionaire wages throughout the Portuguese banking system, including in the General Deposit Box itself. Now, in the run-up to the previous PSD / CDS government, all the executive managers of the General Deposit Box received salaries above the limits that Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now invoking...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u106	Oh, yes! Well? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u107	... as to be respected. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, if they are so concerned about the limits, which it is necessary to impose, of the salaries of public managers, then they have a good opportunity to show it, voting, on Friday, in favour of the bill of the Left Block, because, yes, it introduces clear limits, absolutely transparent limits, in relation to the wages of the public managers. Therefore, they are invited to be consistent with the reasons they invoke, voting in favour of the bill of the Left Block. On the other hand, this hypocrisy also concerns the fact that both the PSD and the CDS invoke in this assessment the wages of workers and the wage inequality that exists between the workers of the business public sector in general and those of the General Deposit Box itself, in particular. You should have remembered this inequality when you approved the millionaire wages of public managers,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... where they have adopted a framework law of independent regulatory entities, which, for all, had the approval of salaries above the Prime Minister's salary as a corollary, for example, which is the maximum limit referred to in the Statute of the Public Manager.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u108	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u109	Finally — I will conclude, Mr President — the question here is not what the coherence of each parliamentary group is, the question is of political chicana that the right, PSD and CDS, want to bring to this debate to confuse Portuguese and avoid the most important issue of all, which is wage inequality in public management,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...and the existence of millionaire wages outside the law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u110	On behalf of the Government, the floor is Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: last July the Government has legislated that the Statute of the Public Manager does not apply to administrators of public credit institutions qualified as "significant supervised entities", thus recognizing the specific nature of the General Deposit Box within the business public sector. The business plan and the recapitalisation of the Box, approved by the European Commission outside the scope of State aid, require an online governance model with the best practices of the sector. According to these practices, the remuneration of the administrators is now defined by a remuneration committee, taking into account the policy defined by the shareholder. unlike what propagated the PSD and the CDS, this model imposes effective limits on the remuneration of the directors of the General Deposit Box, limits these controlled by the shareholder.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u112	The shareholders are us, not you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u113	On the contrary, the systematic application of the exception to the limits of the salary of the public manager, advocated and applied by the PSD/CDS Government, that is to say, does not impose any limit and creates a bizarre and untransparent regime. It should be made clear that, in the case of Box, the application of the Statute of the Public Manager defended by the right has always been made by use of the exception rather than the rule. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, all the administrators of the Box...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u114	All of them! All of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u115	... had a remuneration above the supposed limit imposed by the Statute of the Public Manager, the remuneration of Mr. Prime Minister, even those who had previously been tables of the General Deposit Box. Therefore, this limit that existed, in the case of Box, was an accounting limit, was never active, nor used, to appoint no administrator. in practice, the remuneration of the administrators was determined by its previous employer, whatever it was, regardless of its functions and performance in the Box. The president could earn less than the administrators. The salaries of the administrators depended on decisions of their previous employers, a situation at least bizarre. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, a parliamentary debate must be based on seriousness. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u116	Do you, who systematically come to this House to teach business management lessons, know any company in which remuneration is determined in the way they defend here? In conscience, they certainly cannot answer that. Do they consider the practice of fixing remuneration that suggests an appropriate practice for the management of a bank? Surely, in conscience, they cannot defend him. The model of wage fixing approved by the Government ensures transparency and an appropriate incentive framework, being a key requirement for the Box to have management mechanisms identical to those of competitors. More: in the specific case, the application of the new regime to the current administration should mean that the cost of remuneration is lower than that of the application of these administrators from the exception to the Statute of the Public Manager that you defend. The new regime is more transparent, more efficient and, in particular, is also more economical. Finally, the agreement reached with the European Commission also requires adequate conditions for human resources management to be created. It is in the workers of the Box that establishes the success of the institution. I would like to announce here the Government's firm commitment to legislate to eliminate wage restrictions and career management for workers in the General Deposit Board. Workers will also benefit from appropriate remuneration and incentives, which will allow them to pay for their performance. in this framework, I consider the amendment that the Government has approved and that is part of the governance model approved by the European Central Bank and the European Commission. contrary to what happened in the past, this new model allows an alignment of incentives and effective remuneration of best performance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u117	Mr António Leitão Amaro, from the PSD, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u118	Mr. President, is anyone else registered?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u119	The Members are registered. Mr Leitão Amaro and Mr Cecilia Meireles. Is there a problem, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u120	Mr President, last week we had a series of discussions here on the closures of the debates. In fact, the CDS was affected by an inscription that came later, according to parliamentary practice, and I just wanted to confirm whether or not we are going to comply with the parliamentary practice...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u121	Like we're gonna do it, it's not worth insisting. Please give your speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u122	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a clear choice before us: do we or do we not validate the law of the government that has been made just, and only, to increase the wages of the Box administrators? Those who support this law support the increase in the salaries of the Box administrators and, more importantly, support the completion of the legal limits. The law no longer provides for any limit to the wages of cash administrators. When there were once two limits, any legal limits now disappear. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this left-wing government has already shown how it should not be treated the largest Portuguese bank: the busy in replacing the administration; the lead of the governance model; the illegal appointments, whose law the government did not know; the three nominees who are sent to school before taking office; and the salaries to be increased. But also the Minister of Finance who did not perform his acting role for eight months, complained the leader of the Box, or, then, the Minister of Finance, as a Pyroman, to make public statements that no longer do but create uncertainty and pretend holes that do not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u123	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, because your time has already exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u124	I will finish, Mr. President. We also know nothing about restructuring and recapitalisation, which, of course, says the Prime Minister, nor does he know when and how much it will cost, only knows that it is a lot. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, fortunately, in these years, the Box was the safe port and arrived at the end of 2015 with ratios of solidity. Fortunately, the Box has the robustness enough to withstand the incompetence of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u125	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u126	The box can hold, but the Portuguese are not going to take any more of this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u127	Mr. Secretary Idália Serrão has the floor to report on the file he has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions 469 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PSD ) and 470 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, which amends the Statute of the Public Manager, approved by Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March ( PSD ), as amended by Law No 64 -A / 2008 of 31 December, and Decree-Law No 8 / 2012 of 18 January. Proposals for amendments submitted by the CFP to Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 which fall to 5 have also been included in the Bureau. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u129	I'm asking for your word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u130	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u131	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u132	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u133	I believe that Mrs Cecilia Meireles will still intervene in closing the debate, but rather, I would like to say that, for matters of procedure, the proposed amendments to the Statute of the Public Manager, which we have tabled in this debate, are not yet known to all the banks, because they were delivered to the Bureau and only now have been announced. In any case, this is a limitation to the debate because the honourable Members. Members, particularly the PSD and the CDS, are unaware of the fact that the CFP proposes limiting the remuneration of managers, both public and private, and it was therefore good for them to take this into account since they will vote on these proposals next Friday.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u134	The amendments will be distributed right now and will therefore be read until Friday, of course. For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate is intended to answer a very simple question: should all public managers be subject to the limits of the Statute of the Public Manager or not? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u136	If the gentlemen. Members would like to discuss the rules of the Statute of the Public Manager, we have all the openness to do so, but either this rule, which the Government has approved, disappears from the legal order,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u137	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u138	...or nothing we will discuss will have effect in practice. And it is important to understand how this vote will be taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u139	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u140	Hypocrisy, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is to pretend that you do not realize that this is what is at stake. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u141	More, sirs. Members: I believe that demagogy — and the accusation has been made here —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u142	It's not an accusation, it's a statement!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u143	... is to think that any Portuguese who, with sacrifice, has accumulated 50 000 € throughout life is a rich suspect of running away from tax and that a public manager, who is paid with the money of all of us, who receives three, four or five times that is something absolutely legitimate. [[CDS-PP applause.]] That's demagogy and that's hypocrisy! Mr. Secretary of State said: « There is no company that is managed like this ». Mr. Secretary of State, there is. They are all that you guard, except the General Deposit Box, because the Statute of the Public Manager applies to all public companies less to the General Deposit Box. And it does not cease to be extraordinary the argument that it is not possible to be so because otherwise it is not competitive, it is not possible to recruit the best. Question : is it not possible for the General Deposit Box, but is it already possible for whom to protect it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u144	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u145	That is to say, the President of the Box cannot have these salaries, but the Secretary of State may already have guardianship! Mr Secretary of State, I think the problem is not worth it, because that, I recognise you! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Secondly, it is also important to say that I do not find that, in the past, the existence of high wages has ensured quality in the management of the Box. For those who come to talk about recapitalisation and restructuring, perhaps if there had been such concerns, it would have been more sensible because I do not see that the administrators who you had there — and I can cite examples — whose wages were principal and had no limits, did not cause many of the problems that now force us all to inject money into the box. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, and in conclusion, the General Deposit Box is a public reference institution and the CDS always defended that it would continue to be a public reference institution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u146	Even when the Prime Minister of your government wanted to privatize you?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u147	And for this, it is essential that the same rules apply to the Box which apply to other public undertakings. That is the vote at stake. If you want to discuss other things, we have complete openness to discuss them, but you have to discuss this and, more importantly, you have to vote, because if you do not vote for the cessation of duty, you are co-authors of these salaries and are responsible for these managers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u148	You have to vote on our amendments to Decree-Law!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u149	Mrs. Members, completed the assessment of Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, we move on to the last item on our agenda, which is part of the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 250 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Confirms the intermodal social pass as a title in all collective passenger transport and updates the geographical scope of their crowns in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon ( CFP ) and 286 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrate the Andante, intermodal social pass of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, as a title in all collective passenger transports and update the geographical scope of the respective zone ( PCP ) and draft resolution No 467 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of an effective intermodal transport system in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto ( BE ). For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u150	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members: The proposals we put forward on the intermodal social pass and the Andante aim to contribute to a crucial issue of the public transport system in the metropolitan areas, a tariff policy that responds to the needs of the population, to the current reality of these territories and that gives a fundamental principle in this regard: a social pass for all careers of all operators throughout the metropolitan area. The debate that the CFP has scheduled for today is not a general and abstract debate. What we want to propose and debate today are concrete measures that concern people's lives. The costs of public transport are exorbitant, especially with the scandalous increases and the withdrawal of discounts for young people and reformed by the former Government, PSD / CDS. With wages and reforms in Portugal transport is more expensive in the region of Lisbon than in the region of Berlin, and with the situation we have today, transport is more expensive not only in euros but also in hours, because users now travel longer distances, make longer routes, use careers that did not need to be used for the simple reason that the pass they have does not allow them to use public transport in a simpler and faster way. We defend and propose that the price regime be guaranteed for young people, students, retirees, pensioners and elderly people with a 50% discount, which should never have been withdrawn from them. We must end the unfair and irrational situation that is taking place today. It is a demand for users and populations, it is a position supported by municipalities that have unanimously approved this need: the extension of the social pass to all public transport throughout the metropolitan area, ending with the current discrimination of users, with private companies that simply choose not to be on the pass or on the Andante.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u151	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u152	Some will say: but the proposal from the CFP is contrary to the model which was enshrined in the legal regime of the public passenger transport service. And it's true! Furthermore, the CFP has not only firmly rejected the proposed law of the previous Government, PSD / CDS, which gave rise to this lamentable legal regime, as it has already submitted in this legislature a bill that makes profound changes to that regime. It's the law that's in force, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a time bomb that will have even more serious consequences if nothing is done, including within the framework of the tariff. In any case, it should always be remembered that, in accordance with this law that is in force, the responsibility that is now defined puts the central power, the Government, and not the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon ( AML) or the Metropolitan Area of Porto ( AMP) as authority for various operators and modes of transport in particular in the metropolitan areas, which demonstrates and reinforces the need for discussion and concrete measures in which the Assembly of the Republic assumes its role and contributes to an integrated solution to these problems. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP reiterates its full willingness to work together, to deepen this debate, with openness, in order to find the best solutions, but cannot "shake the water from the hood" and refer to others that responsibility. It is necessary to respond to these problems, concrete measures must be taken for the benefit of the people, measures that contribute to attract more users, rather than to distance them, thus allowing individual transport to be made available, so that, once and for all, the Day without Cars, which will be signed again tomorrow, will cease to be a sort of day of lies. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u153	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. and Mrs Deputies : Today we are called, at the initiative of the PCP, to appreciate two bills by visiting the theme of social passes in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. It is an initiative that has the merit of allowing us to make a brief reflection on an important issue—as is the case with social tariffs in public transport—but that, for us, chooses tart lines to decide on a path that matters to take, from the outset, because it ignores the new Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service ( RJSPTP), in accordance with Law No 52 / 2015 of 9 June. In fact, whether or not you like the new regime, the truth is that according to Articles 6. o, 7. it's 8. the law in force, municipalities, intermunicipal communities and metropolitan areas are public entities that have the legal competence of public passenger transport services. in the case of metropolitan areas, it is expressly stated that « (...) the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto adopt, in accordance with the law, the model of organisation that they consider most appropriate, either by their respective bodies or by means of intermunicipalised services » — Article 8 ( 2 ). o. It is true that the former Government, PSD / CDS, with the aim of granting legal coverage to the process of sub-concession of several public passenger transport subsystems, deliberately included a rule that excludes the application of the RJSPTP to the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, usurping these competences and considering the State as the competent authority for the public passenger transport service. This rule, contrary to the Community directive itself transposed by that legal regime, was the escape which the previous government found to pave the way for the privatization of public transport. This rule is therefore justified to be repealed as soon as possible and normality is resumed in the process of decentralization and organisation of public transport services according to their different territorial scales. It would be a very wrong signal not to walk so that by 3 December 2019, and together with the authorities, the Government does not promote a broad debate with a view to defining the main issues that arise in the future provision of public transport. In particular, even if it is fair to consider that social passes should be the backbone of the current and future systems of ethics, to want the House of the Legislative Republic in particular on this or that aspect of the social pass and/or of the Andante would be to override democracy especially in one of the dimensions that autocratic regimes have never accepted: the exercise of democratic local power, whose local expression is the respect for the principle of subsidiarity in political decision-making processes. It is in the light of this understanding that the Left Block proposes the formulation of a set of recommendations to the Government and to the metropolitan authorities so that, in this transitional period and in the exercise of their respective competences, joint transport systems are designed between all public and private operators, in order to transform the exercise of collective mobility into an effective tool for improving the quality of life of populations and a powerful contribution to the decarbonisation of the economy and against global warming. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u155	For an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand the two initiatives presented by the Portuguese Communist Party, with regard to the importance of the social pass within the framework of the affirmation of public transport as an essential pillar of its prevalence in the mobility of urban territories. However, we believe that today we have a legal framework defined by the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service which effectively delegated this responsibility to the transport authorities at their various levels at the municipal, intermunicipal and metropolitan level. in this new regime there is indeed the allocation of a set of competences to the metropolitan authorities where this concern of the Communist Party is precisely integrated, with regard not only to the issue of passes but also to the question of the entire policy of tariff of metropolitan public transport. We understand that there are three fundamental pillars that need to be framed in the context of public transport policies. It is certainly the issue of tariffs and tariff policy, but it is basically the question of redefining the models of organisation and mobility management that are now integrated with the issues of land planning and development policy. That is the fundamental question. That is to say, we cannot discuss tariff issues without integrating development issues and territorial policies into what are today mobility policies. The draft laws submitted by the Communist Party go far beyond the statement of the importance of the social pass in mobility policies because, in fact, these two initiatives also come into matters related to geographical issues such as zoning, validity, periodicity, distribution of revenue and the issues of compensation. However, these draft laws are in fact integrated, and the Socialist Party believes that they must continue, within the competences of the metropolitan authorities at their various levels. We therefore believe that these concerns need to be discussed more globally and in consultation with these metropolitan transport authorities. However, we must also not fail to mention that the issue of tariff policy relates to the issues of the contractualization of public service and the economic sustainability of public and private transport operators. This also has to be involved in an extended discussion, because in fact we cannot have a step back in what is today the policies presented in the Socialist Party's programme and in the Government's programme to ensure that operators, whether public or private, are able to have sustainable policies that ensure the quality of service to the citizen and that they are, in fact, fundamental pillars of public transport, as a fundamental element of urban mobility in the territories. We understand that it has to be discussed within the committee to integrate this concern of the social pass into the broader context of the issues we have just mentioned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u157	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: These initiatives, in addition to expressing a divergence in management — I hope they can talk in closed room and reach agreement —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u159	Closed, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u160	... they do not add anything new to transport policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u161	It's transparent!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u162	This, because the model that brought us here was permanent indebtedness. Moreover, what the PSD/CDS Government has done was to reduce 3% to corporate indebtedness, it was to achieve, through concessions and sub-concessions, many of them designed by the Socialist Party, foreign direct investment, new management models and, above all, to ensure public transport. Only sustainable companies and models, either environmentally or in terms of seeking a good rationality of supply and demand, are able to guarantee the necessary public service. More: it has even extended the entire public transport service to the rest of the country and not only to the large cities of Porto and Lisboa, particularly with the transport door-to-door. That is, any Portuguese in any region had the right to public transport services and not only those in the country. Therefore, it was a sustainable, economically viable and democratic system, but it did not forget the most needy. When the Communist Party here comes to say 'good, it is necessary to return to the social pass', what we had in the past was step a and step b, with a discount of 50 % of the value equivalent to the title of transport, for beneficiaries of the solidarity complement for the elderly and the social income of insertion. We had a step b for retirees, pensioners with a value of 1, 2 % of the indexer to social support and even to beneficiaries of unemployment benefit and families who were in difficulty. Now, what we had was a resource condition. What the left is proposing to us today: whoever has 50 000 € should see his life destroyed by tax, because it is dangerous how rich he runs away from tax! Those who have an estate of 500 000 € have to pay a surcharge. But that same person if you want to walk in public transport is getting away with it. So, consistency is this! He's poor! What the Communist Party proposes is that citizens over 65 years old, regardless of the condition of appeal, up to 24 years old or student, regardless of the condition of appeal, have access to the special system of public transport prices. So it seems that we have a coherence here, which is to be pointed out, and that is really the demagogy of demagogy. I understand that they are speaking to a certain electorate, but it is worth recovering the draft resolutions, presented at the end of the Legislative Session by the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, which dealt with the current quality of the public transport service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u163	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u164	Have you noticed how many complaints existed between February and November last year only about the degradation of the quality of services?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u165	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u166	What about the PCP requirement? Didn't you read?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u167	It is clear that this model, which was such a reversal of transport to ensure quality transport for all, originated the greatest of the traffic on the transport network. He came to bring greater discontent and loss... [[Protests of PCP Members.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. It is clear that much of the loss of the market share of public transport had to do with strikes. A transport system that is unreliable doesn't lead anyone to believe in it! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] But we'll be right there. Therefore, Mr Bruno Dias, to conclude, it is clear that we are in favour of interoperability, intermodality, facilitated literacy—of course yes— extending the crowns... We are in favour of everything that can facilitate, provided that it has a fair distribution grid between the various operators, whether they are managed by municipalities or private, because all this is part of such a sustainable, modern model of mobility. Nothing to oppose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u168	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u169	With this I shall finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Members, after all, who should pay for public transport? It's who's considered rich by VV. Ex.? Or is it who doesn't have a shortage, how did we understand?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u170	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u171	For what? To guarantee everyone the right to mobility, which is what you do not want to do. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u172	Mr Virgílio Macedo has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To ensure that there is no doubt about the PSD's position on public passenger transport, I would like to reaffirm, and that there is no doubt,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u174	No need! We got it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u175	... that the PSD is in favour of the existence of a quality public passenger transport system, that the PSD recognises the importance of the existence of an intermodal social pass — and I remember that it was in the time of a PSD government in 1993 that for the first time the so-called « combined transport securities » were established —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u176	That was to end the social pass!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u177	... and that the PSD is in favour of the existence of a system of discounts applied to social passes, but with criteria, fair criteria, and in which there is an effective application of social justice, and proof of this was the implementation in the previous legislation of the Social Pass +. contrary to what the CFP refers to in its initiatives, what the previous Government did was truly defend the public passenger transport service through the implementation of policies aimed at ensuring that these public passenger transport companies were financially sustainable in the medium term. That's because it's just like that, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we can ensure that, in the future, there can be a public transport of quality passengers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u178	Ah! What a joke!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u179	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these initiatives now presented by the CFP are a mere repetition of the texts of other initiatives presented in previous legislatures and before the entry into force of the new Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service, which was established by Law No 52 / 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u180	That was corrected! Mr President, you are not preparing for the speeches!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u181	That is why the CFP proposes the repeal of a decree-law that had already been repealed by this law of 2015. [[PCP protests.]] This is an initiative out of context, it's a repetition, it's a copy/paste, out of the existing normative framework. [[PCP protests.]] For example, the CFP proposes to legislate on matters that clearly form part of the competences conferred on the transport authorities of the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon. According to the law in force, these metropolitan authorities are responsible for the organization, planning, development and articulation of networks and lines of the public passenger transport service. The CFP wanted, with this initiative, to interfere with these competences, which are, and very well, decentralised. But the CFP in these initiatives also proposes to create a special system of lower prices for access to the intermodal social pass.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u182	Read the text!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u183	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, are the criteria defined in the Social + Pass so illogical? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u184	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u185	Should access to these reduced price social passes not depend on the applicant’s financial condition?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u186	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u187	Is it not a good social justice policy policy to give more to those who really need it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u188	It was good, it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u190	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u191	I shall conclude, Mr President. These legislative initiatives of the CFP are totally extemporaneous, illogical and even contrary to the regulations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u192	They're to solve people's problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u193	... and are justified only for one reason: the need for the CFP to intervene permanently in the transport sector,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u194	You're going to blow up the side!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u195	...what should be done after an analysis of the sector and all the consequences. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u196	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for an intervention, to exhaust the few seconds that he still has.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u197	Mr President, I just wanted to point out two answers to the Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP. First of all, I thank Mr. Virgílio Macedo for speaking on the draft resolution of the Left Block. And I think it is worth removing from your intervention that the PSD solves the equation of the creation of a public passenger transport system by removing the word « public», i.e. by creating a passenger transport service. Hello! The less public you have the transport service, the better it is for the PSD because the problem of deficit is solved!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u199	The less people have the transport system, the smaller the transport system is, the less the risk of harming it. Therefore, the PSD solves the problem in this way simply. Mr Hélder Amaral came here to resume the policy of the "social pass for the poor".
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u200	Mr. Deputies, you've wasted your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u201	I will now finish, Mr President. We're at a time, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in which the essential issue of the planet is global warming and a new profile of mobility in cities. And a new mobility profile in cities has to be done by promoting public transport for all people...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u202	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u203	...and not just for the poor. It is due to the replacement of individual transport, which is more polluting, which congests cities more, which leads to a reduction in social productivity, by cheap public transport systems able to replace the car in the pendulum displacements that we will be walking towards the sustainability of the planet and cities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u204	To conclude the debate, Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It was clear that there are at least two ways of looking at a problem! One is to look at a problem and find obstacles not to overcome it, and this issue became clear in the argument of the metropolitan transport authorities when, according to the law itself, the State, central administration, is the competent transport authority for this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u206	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u207	So there's no problem. It is Article 5. The law that solves the problem. The argument of the metropolitan authority of transport is invoked, when it is the authorities themselves that unanimously approve successive motions, supporting the legislative solution that we present here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u208	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u209	So we've got people here who are sorry not to go through a problem. Of course, then we have the CDS-PP to do a completely next door and shut down of reality, but this should not be called here at the collation. We looked at the problem and we found solutions and what the people transmit to us is that there are two fundamental problems: one, it is the question of the social pass that needs to be recovered, because, indeed, the PSD and the CDS-PP have eliminated it for the vast majority of the population of the metropolitan areas, which has not gone through at your expense!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u210	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u211	A huge majority! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u212	The second problem, Mr Hélder Amaral, has to do with intermodality. I invite you to go to the public transport of Rio Tinto, Gondomar or Matosinhos to understand the problems that lack of intermodality causes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u213	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u214	I shall conclude, Mr President. One of the problems is that people have to buy two passes to move into the same metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u215	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u216	It's unfair! The PCP looks at the problems and finds solutions. Here's the PCP bill that solves these problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-21.u217	Mrs. Members, with this word of hope, we finish the debate of the projects of lein. 250 and 286 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and draft resolution No 467 / XIII ( 2. ( a). Tomorrow we will have only one item on the agenda, which consists of the 15th year debate, with the presence of the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, on guidelines of the Great Plan Options for 2017. The sitting is therefore closed. [[It was 17 hours and 6 minutes.]]
