ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start our meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the authorities to open the galleries. Our agenda today has only one point, Question No 3 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — On education policies ( CDS-PP ), but before that, I will ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they took part in the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President to the following initiatives: Bill No 234 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by the increase in collective bargaining ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; draft resolutions Nos 318 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Transfer from the management of the heritage of the Côa Valley to the Ministry of Culture and extinction of the Côa Parque Foundation ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 319 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Access to health care provided at the Tejo Hospital Centre ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 320 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of various measures for the proper functioning of the Centre Hospitalar do Médio Tejo, EPE ( CDS-PP ), which is down to 9. the Commission, 321 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures promoting the dynamisation and growth of the tourism sector in Portugal ( PSD ) and 322 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish an autonomous CAE for the logistics sector ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; and Parliamentary assessment No 15 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 19 / 2016 of 15 April, which revises the career of emergency ambulance technicians of the National Institute of Medical Emergency, IP ( INEM, IP ), and creates and defines the special career regime of pre-hospital emergency technicians ( PCP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u3	Before giving the floor to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa to start the debate on education policies, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Education and the other members of the Government here. So you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is about education policies. It's not about a supposed confrontation between public and private school, it's about defending the school. Bridge! It is not only about association contracts, it is also about everything else that has been left behind. This debate is therefore not limited to the 17 000 students of the association contracts, whose educational course is being abruptly interrupted and on which we will not lower our arms, but it is on the 1,400 000 students who stayed behind, while the Ministry is fighting these 17 000. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is about the families of these 1,400 000 students, about their schools, directors, teachers and employees. Let us then begin, most importantly, by the students, to whom an individual card has been promised for, and I quote, «So contribute to the creation of opportunities for school success for all». After all, the evaluation model, which was national and mandatory, became optional, as the creation of opportunities was limited to 57 % of all of them. For those who claim to fight inequalities, the Ministry immediately began by creating a new one: half of the students stayed behind. The obsession of this government and of the parties supporting it against the systemic assessment limited the discussion to the top of the rankings, which had already been qualified and improved. And instead of fighting inequality, it was easier to hide them, simply erase everything as if it did not exist. All instrumental knowledge to improve the system was considered irrelevant. To remove the rankings, because "all are equal", we fail to know what are the schools at the bottom of the table, which most need help. Missing and hidden in ignorance, the most needy schools stayed behind. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This Government decided to continue the option of the former Government to extend to the whole system the experience of autonomy contracts in the flexibility of 25 % of the curriculum. But this learning, this experience, the successes and challenges, good practices and obstacles, all the work of about 300 schools with a contract of autonomy has been studied? Was it evaluated? Was your effort considered? Don't! Once again he was left behind! It is paradoxical that by giving with one hand greater autonomy to schools so that their context is taken into account, with the other hand they move away from school the process of hiring teachers, and thus cannot define a teaching body equally adjusted to the context. Now, as far as hiring is concerned, only 100 teachers were involved in this year's competition, when last year they were about 900. But this year there are also 1125 teachers who are now facing unemployment, because the government will close 374 classes of schools with an association contract. We know from the press that an internal document from the Ministry would be willing to welcome teachers who would be fired from these schools in order to meet the needs of State school staff in the same regions. It happens that any placement of these teachers would be possible only through the annual invitation to tender, or the recruitment reserve, both already closed for the next school year. I mean, these teachers stayed behind. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, the school year is ending and ends with more instability than when it started. It ends even more unpredictable than when this government took possession. We are almost in June, students, families, schools and teachers are already ahead of the next school year and the doubts are more than many. I'll put three of them here. The Secretary of State said, in news published yesterday, that the supposed savings that will already have in July with the closure of the 374 classes allow free manuals to be given to all students of 1. the cycle, including private, emphasizes. Since nothing prevents her, she confirms that she will extend the supply of manuals to all 1. the cycle, including private? Are the authorities or schools providing the manuals? Should parents buy the manuals and wait for them to be resuscitated? Should they return them at the end of the year? When will we know? Or was this new ad just a magic trick, or demagogy, to distract families while closing classes in 58 schools? [[CDS-PP applause.]] in the case of students with special educational needs, the Ministry opted for a fictitious reduction of the number of students per class. Under the good pretext of inclusion, the class can only be reduced if students with special educational needs there are 60% of their school time. But for this to happen, it takes more special education teachers. Now, if only 20 of the group 910, of two, one : or the classes will be without reduction and students with special educational needs outside them most of the time, or will resort to contracts, increasing precariousness. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u5	Where are we, Minister, inclusion or illusion? [[CDS-PP applause.]] It has also been announced and a curriculum reform is being prepared, in which all disciplines will also be structured, while reducing the educational burden and in which the goals will be replaced by competences. How do you guarantee that it will bring better results to the system? How will this reform be evaluated? Will teachers be trained? This is because teachers, the most important element of the classroom, cannot be treated as automatons, or teaching for goals, or teaching for skills. So what will it be like? Will there be initial and continuing training or will a new office be enough to change the teaching method at school? Mr. Minister, the Government and the majority that supports it have finished the examinations because it is not because of the examinations that improve the quality of the system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u6	And I agree with that statement, it's not because I put the thermometer out of the fever. Of course, for the same logic, it is also not simply to stop taking tests that improve the quality of the system, it is not to throw out the thermometer that we no longer have fever. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The problem is that your disregard for the evaluation of the system will have serious consequences. Without evaluation instruments, without public and transparent information, we will never be able to know the performance of the system, its students and teachers and will never know the impact of your curriculum reforms. We have no way of knowing whether they are correcting or increasing inequalities. Mr President, I should like to ask you not to ask, to believe that everything will be fine, only because it is done on behalf of the defence of the public school. In the name of that name, they attack each other and leave all the others behind. Perhaps this explains why it was easier to make this attack than to do something really constructive for all schools this year. They left behind the possibility of knowing what schools need more help and the school year is ending. They left behind the links of the teachers to the paintings; vacancies only 100, prefer to resort to contracts. Maybe for the year. They left behind the conclusions of the Working Group on Special Education, prefer to do another working group, although the complaints and requests of families and educators are unanimous and urgent, and the school year to end. They left behind the consensual extension of the pre-school, studied and prepared by the previous government, ready to be carried out progressively for the four years. They'd rather go back to the cabinets, and the school year is over! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Amadeu Soares Albergaria.]] They left behind, or later, dialogue and dialogue, listening to people and schools, before deciding or announcing. « It is I who decide», said to us once here, Mr Minister. Unless the contribution is from FENPROF, the only evaluators who really accept it. The school year's over. There are students, there are families, there are teachers and not teachers, there are public and private schools that see the year to end and do not know what the next will be, where you can sign up, what vocation pathways there will be, which manuals will buy, how they can compete, how they will be evaluated, what changes will occur in the middle of the year, what confidence they can have. There are no answers, there is only one claimed defense of the public school, instead of the defense of the quality school. Bridge! The school year is coming to an end and you have not lost just time or opportunity. In education, every year counts, every year lost are people who stay behind and that, Minister, is truly the result of their education policies. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Amadeu Soares Albergaria.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u7	Before giving the floor to the Minister of Education, for an intervention to open the debate, I inform Mrs Ana Rita Bessa that Mrs Joana Mortágua has signed up to request clarifications. You have the floor, Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. The CDS-PP has decided to ask the Government about education policy and, if, as a Minister and as an ex-parliamentary, allow me the opinion, it has decided very well. Education policies are too essential for the present and future of our country, so that there is only one debate that may be the most. So here we are, so here I am to, with all pleasure and commitment, speak of what has motivated my coming, the education policies that the Ministry is implementing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We held on 26 November and this Government's programme was covered by this Assembly of the Republic on 3 December. We have therefore been in office for six months. in the Government Programme and in the National Reform Programme, the centrality and priority given to education are clear and high. Since this long journey, the six months we have been in office have already marked the start of the implementation of the already ambitious commitments we have made with the Portuguese and with the honourable Members. Members who represent them and who are right, we will honor them. Six months are an important enough part of the legislature to make it clear that we saw exactly what we said we were coming. You may, the ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the healthy diversity of voters and ideas they represent, to review more or to review less in the commitments we have defined and on which, in due course, they have spoken, making them viable. You may, gentlemen. Members, in the natural diversity of personalities that are yours, appreciate more or less the Minister of Education. Nothing more natural in life and politics. No one accepts the challenge of contributing to the common good, being Minister of Education, waiting for unanimity on policies and acclamation on his ego. I certainly was not, because I know, as I know a few things in life, that much more than the Minister person, are interested in education policies, because they are structural and build the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I know well, as I know a few things in life, which I am not a minister, I am a minister, with all honour, all pleasure, but also with all conviction and with all tenacity. for being, I'm responding to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the Portuguese. I therefore answer here and now, not about cases and cases, but about educational policies. I am replying to you about what we have done, what we do and what we will do to implement the Government Programme in education. And if we have done something, which they have certainly noticed, we do enough today and we will do the most we need to do tomorrow and then. Let us see, then, what we have done, done and done, because it is really about education that we speak and that it is important to speak. Starting from the beginning, and knowing how pre-school education is a determining predictor of school success, we launched a program of universalization of pre-school, beginning in 2016 / 17 and with sequential completion until the last year of the Legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's just that it's important to treat first what matters. We focused the work of schools on the function of teaching with time and requirement, resting the centrality of internal evaluation and complementing it with external measurement and evaluation, so that everyone knows what is learned, how it is learned and how it should be taught to learn more and better. For this reason, most decided to adopt this evaluation paradigm already this year, being universalized in the next school year. We will fulfill compulsory 12-year-old education,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u9	I was already there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u10	... by giving it more sense, by proposing, through an extended debate, the creation of a profile that indicates — to those who teach and to those who learn — what skills, knowledge and attitudes must the school equip those who attend it. A reference that allows schools to know what students want to educate, so that they can better know what school they want to be. We resolve late payments in artistic and professional teaching, defining a timetable and adopting corrective procedures that can prevent further delays in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is now necessary to look forward and define the supply network of vocational training, so that, when it is better articulated, it is more rational and effective. We do not forget that, to be truly all equal, there are our students who deserve special treatment. Noting that 85 % of students with special educational needs were, in the classroom context, less than 80% of their school time—and fulfilling the recommendations of the United Nations to avoid the segregation of these children—we strengthened the inclusive education of this school population. Because it is not learned without who teaches, we removed the ECB ( school contract), a system that was a notable obstacle to the stability of our teaching body, and we integrated the appreciation of the teaching function as far as we can and in everything we do. Thus, we linked teaching training to all areas in which we spoke: vocational education, evaluation, equity, promotion of school success, curriculum and pre-school, and also improving the respective vocational training system. Because it is not taught without those who learn to have the weapons of equity, we have already started a demanding path of freeness of school textbooks for students of compulsory education,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...beginning, as I could not cease to be, by 1. the year of basic education, already in 2016, and at the same time we reached an agreement with the publishers, so that there are no increases in the manuals of compulsory education that are not yet free for families. This, as we strengthened the social action at school, so that everyone can fulfill the obligation to go to school, during the 12 years in which school is essential to them. Let's reposition normality in schools. If schools have an hourly credit, they have to be able to actually use it. And they use it not only as a prize that celebrates the fulfilment of the mission so that there are — to teach successfully — but, above all, as an instrument to be able to tackle the deficiencies that they still face and that prevent them from fully fulfilling the same mission. It is also necessary here to treat differently what is different, giving more to those who need it, to do better, and less accurate in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The promotion of school success in Portugal — I have already said and I repeat — cannot rest for a minute while presenting retention rates that triple the OECD average, nor while the early school dropout rate is less than 10 % with which we are internationally committed and for which compulsory 12-year schooling is presented as a fundamental instrument. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u11	I was already there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u12	Therefore, we have created the National School Success Promotion Program, capable of, through the involvement of all—but even all—the educational community, allowing each school to design an individualized strategy that improves the learning of its students, in the context that is theirs, and not in another. I still lack to speak to you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, two more educational policies on which I would also like to hear from you. Portugal currently has students who, at 12 years of age and as a apparent punishment for their failing school, were not expelled because it would be illegal, but were furnished from the system, arranging them, from that age, in a teaching from which they were not expected to return. The so-called "vocational education" was, in fact, not to help students overcome their learning difficulties, but rather to remove from the indicators these students and the difficulties they carry. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was in fact not teaching and much less responded to any vocation, impossible, indeed, to diagnose in children at this age. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I take here and before you the commitment to end this unfortunate experience, without a parallel in Europe, in which children are the test material. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will create tutorials so that each of these children — with pedagogical advice from his school — can enter the teaching that best serves it, whether he is regular or professional. This, so that these children also have the right to a destiny that they build rather than a destiny that someone has determined as the only one they would have. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] I need to talk to you about association contracts. in fact, there is no lack, because, at the request of the PSD, I had the pleasure of coming here on Friday, day 6. 15 days tomorrow, then. Today it is the CDS that calls on me and I would like to reiterate the following: as Minister of Education, I have the responsibility to decide how best to allocate taxpayers' resources to the public good of education. I do so, having as a horizon the success and fairness of all our students and having as practice strict compliance with legality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u13	We didn't take the country to bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u14	The State has hired and hired privates to ensure complementaryly something that it has always seen—and has never failed to see—as its obligation: to have a public school network, as wide as possible and as coherent as possible, in terms of financial and sustainability. This is the case in basic and secondary education, in professional and artistic education, which we want to strengthen, and in pre-school education, that we want to universalize. I can only conclude, therefore, by congratulating and congratulating ourselves that the State — all of us — is increasingly fulfilling its duty to carry out what has always been provided for in the Basic Law of the Education System. As the Government of the Republic, it is up to us to fulfil the association contracts that finance classes in private and cooperative education, enabling all students to complete — in the school where they are and so want — the whole cycle of their studies. As we should also authorize the opening of new classes for new years beginning new cycles, which are necessarily going beyond the horizon of existing contracts, provided there is no redundancy with the schools already built, in operation, with recognised quality, and which are paid by the taxpayers than the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, they are so well represented. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u15	Minister, your time is up. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u16	I will finish, Mr. President. Of course, serenely, legally and rationally. What politics should be like. As it is, no doubt, with me. And how it is, without a doubt, in this Ministry. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u17	Let us now enter the debate. To request clarification from Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, three Mrs. Members, to whom the honourable Member will answer together. So you have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u18	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I listened yesterday very carefully to the concerns of the honourable Member to see the network study that justified this reduction in the number of classes to be opened under association contracts. And I wanted to greet you for that, because curiosity is also a sign of intelligence. So, having come to this curiosity, it's good. What I would like to ask is where this curiosity was to know about the network study, when governments successively fed with association contracts about 80 colleges, year after year. See: only between 2012 and 2015, the government that your party supported closed 1300 public schools and held association contracts with 79 of 81 colleges. Therefore, it closed 1300 public schools and decreased the number of schools supported from 81 to 79. What about the network study? And the curiosity with the network study at that time when they were closing public schools? Where was the network study showing the lack? On behalf of the right accounts, when the previous Government opened an invitation to tender for association contracts, did the honourable Member not find the result of the successful fight with the colleges that had already received those contracts before the invitation to tender strange? You didn't ask for a network study to confirm why that was happening? Didn't you require a network study to know if there was a lack? And why didn't you require a network study to know if there was duplication? It is because you know, as I know, as everyone knows, that many of these contracts are unnecessary. The honourable Member knows — and there is no need for a network study to do so, although I think it does well to ask for it — that there are redundancy in the supply of contracts. Mrs. Deputy knows, as well as I, that there is a college in Coimbra, the College of São Martinho, founded in 1998 by two former directors of the Regional Directorate of Education of the Centre, ex-directors of the Ministry, the PSD,... [[PSD protests.]] ... that they knew very well what the public offer was, they opened a private school next to the public offer and then they obtained association contracts to feed the profits of that private school. The honourable Member knows that as well as I do. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I would like to ask the honourable Member why do we continue to feed these schools? Is it due to lack of public offer or is it purely and simply by the tradition of giving a rent to the owners of private schools, because it was this tradition that sank the public school? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u19	You now have the floor to Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u20	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, we have listened carefully to your statement. He sought here to express pretense concerns with the teachers, with the employees, with the parents, with the students. But, Mrs Deputies, the question that actually arises is: where was this concern, in the last four years of your Government, of the CDS / PSD Government, when you took a series of serious measures that led to the destruction of the public school, which removed rights to teachers, which created more difficulties for families and students in access to and success at school? Where has the CDS been with these concerns? Where was the CDS with the concerns about the openings of the school years, when, in the last four years, there was no year in which there were no problems and there was even one year in which, in December, teachers were still to be put? Where was the concern about the teaching/education process of these same students? In fact, it is interesting to come here today to express these concerns when, in the last four years, everything has been done to dismantle public school and benefit private schools. He spoke here about the dismissal of 1125 teachers. It is important to recognize that it is no longer the 4000 that was initially spoken; it is only 1125. We are concerned about all these dismissals. But where was the concern of the CDS when private schools increased teachers' working hours by 20 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u22	... what led to the dismissal of around 20 %? Moreover, we have knowledge of a private school in which cooperative teachers have 31 hours of school hours. All right, every two hours, I would give one more time, one third, one more job. Where was the CDS and the PSD/CDS government to demand that teachers' rights in private schools be safeguarded? [[PCP applause.]] Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, could also mention other aspects here, such as : they imposed requalification on teachers, they imposed proof of evaluation on teachers, they increased the number of students per class, they created mega-groupings, they created measures that led to the exclusion of students and their segregation, such as vocational education, they kept the public school working on the limit, without employees, without technicians, they did not invest in special education. Where was the concern of the CDS with students, with families, with teachers, who because of these measures saw their process of education-learning conditioned, saw their process of inclusion in public school conditioned?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u24	In fact, what we have had over the past four years, Mrs Deputies, was a government that did everything — and I reiterate here, that everything has done — to dismantle, to destroy the public school with one objective: to benefit private school and privatize education. [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u25	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u26	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I think we need to know who we are talking to. We are talking to an MP who belongs to a political party that belongs to a coalition that has simply forgotten the public school. No, you didn't! He did it on purpose to sink the public school. He closed public schools, funded the public school, took out numerous teachers from the public school, did not put non-teachers according to the needs of the public school and, therefore, harmed public school students. This was your policy for education and the response they gave to public school. On the other hand, and at the same time, they have always guaranteed funding for private school. Now, let us join the pieces of the puzzle, Mrs Deputy: they have made a supposed proposal for reform of the political system, or for reform of the state, which consisted of the surrender to private persons - we can call them privatization - of the social functions of the State, where we find education. So if you want to put an ideological component on this issue, let us put an ideological component on the issue, because, in fact, it is not only important. The honourable Member will not be surprised — and I am now, of course, speaking on the part of the Greens — that we are always fighting for the defence of the public school and for the fulfilment of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, but then take a position in favour of financing, as it should be, of the public school. And the financing, as it should be, of the public school must obey the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which says that the State has an obligation to create public education establishments to respond to the needs of our children and our young people. And what the law says is that, when the public offer is not enough and cannot give that answer, there can be the possibility of creating these association contracts. But these association contracts are, according to the law, dynamic, not vital, nor static. That is, the answer must be found according to the answer itself that the public school is giving. Now, Mrs Deputy, it is a perfect nonsense, if I allow myself to express, in terms of public expenditure and coordination of public expenditure, that there is a public school that can respond to a particular location and the State takes money and instead of injecting into public school, injecting into a private school. What is the logic, Mrs. Member? There is, of course, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u27	It's the logic of the little diner!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u28	The honourable Member says that you cannot speak in public school, or in private school, you speak in school. Bridge! No, it's not true, Mrs. Deputy! Some have created the school to form their business, legitimately — they have all the legitimacy to create it, but they know under what conditions they are creating it, of course, and they know what the law says and what the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic says, which assigns to the State the obligation to create a public offer that responds to the needs of the population. Now, the honourable Member cannot say here that this is going to happen abruptly, when the government itself has already said that children and young people who are attending a certain cycle will continue to attend it according to their association contract. The honourable Member knows that the changes are exactly for the beginning of the cycle. Therefore, it is not worth us to be inventing arguments when the arguments we hold do not arrive to be right. You see, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! To put the points to us, on this matter, I just want to know one thing: how many teachers have the CDS-PP and PSD withdrawn from public education? How many, Mrs. Deputy? Remember us there, because this answer is fundamental to the accusations that you make and to the discussion we are making here. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u29	We're taking back 30,000!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u30	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u31	Mr President, before answering the questions put to me, I would like to leave two previous notes. The first is to note that it is still interesting that, after the intervention I made here and the intervention of the Government, it is not the PS that comes to defend its government, it is the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] The second previous note has to do with a feature of this Parliament: what is lacking in the predictability system is still here. I would be able to know in advance what you would say and, unfortunately, it is nothing constructive about the future, only a zenge about the past. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Otherwise, let us see: we have come here to open a debate in which we have proposed to take stock of the current policies of this government and to look forward to what will be done next year. The gentlemen spoke so alone and only of the past. Is it wrong to think that you have no idea about education for the future? Is it wrong to think that there is nothing positive about doing in public school? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u32	For parties who talk so much about public school, it is also interesting to see that they took about 90 % of the time to talk about association contracts, which the CDS chose not to do when he went to the rostrum. [[CDS-PP applause.]] As for the Left Block, I am grateful for the fulfilment, as to the curiosity as the fruit of intelligence, and surely at the same time, the Left Block, with this feature, has requested the study of the network, which seems to have tormented it, has-CL-it will study it, analyzed it and, by the way, will have been quiet. So, regarding network studies, I think we all know the importance of having the information to decide.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u34	It seems extraordinary to me that you are the ones who have so much concern about the precariousness and the hiring of teachers, to spend your time here talking about the policies of the previous government and a sector which was quiet, peaceful and which was the target of public tenders and with the visa of the Court of Auditors. [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u35	If you want to talk about teachers, I think it's a good idea. The former government — and this concept should be demystified —... [[They sent 30,000 to the street!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u36	... did not fire teachers,... [[Aren't you?!...]] [[Aren't you?!...]] [[Aren't you?!...]] [[Aren't you?!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u37	...the previous government did not hire 25 000 teachers. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Let's see if you can figure this out once and for all. Let's imagine a company, Primark. Primark opens a contract and leaves out of that hiring 100 people. Are these people fired from Primark? Oh, my God! Or are they simply not hired by Primark? [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS's, BE's, PCP's and Greens' laughter and protests.]] I would therefore like to know whether, in the invitation to tender for contracts which will soon be held for 45 000 teachers, with 56 000 recruitment proposals, these 56 000 will be dismissed by this government or simply not hired. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u38	I want to know what the Left Block is going to do!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u39	I am very sorry that, in a debate where we want to take stock and look at education, about the issues that have been dealt with in the Education Committee even with consensus by everyone, such as the special educational needs, you do not have a word here. I think it's a shame you don't take this moment to discuss this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u40	Answer what you've been asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u41	I also think it is important to recognise, because it is serious to do so, that not everything the previous government has done is right. What seems to me to be something different is that we spend the time hitting on what has been done instead of trying to build better on what already exists, and this you are not able to do and prevent on your consciences. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u42	I should like to inform you that the Bureau has registered eight Members. Members to request clarification from the Minister of Education and who has been informed by the Minister that he will respond to groups of four. You then have the floor, Mr Abel Baptista.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u43	Mr President, the Minister for Education on 26 January made a statement in this Parliament that I quote: "Education is also political and we make politics with education". The Minister was consistent in this statement when he recently made ideological policy with association contracts. This is a coherence on your part. [[PS protests.]] But, Minister, besides making politics with education, politics is not just saying a few phrases, almost all generalists, with which most of the cases we agree and even because they are no longer new. Mr Minister, in his initial speech just now, said they did the universalization of pre-school. The universalization of pre-schoolers up to the age of four was not done by the Minister, it was already done by the previous governments. This universalization was already decided by the previous governments,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u44	by the governments prior to yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u45	...it wasn't Mr. Minister who came to do it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The Minister said here a number of generalities, for example, by redefining the public supply network of vocational education. Mr Minister, and this is also political, after you have announced some measures, tell us how it will operationalize them and how they will be implemented. Now, we do not know what this professional offer will be, either on the network of public schools in the state, or in private and cooperative schools, where a significant part of vocational education is being done. How is this going to be operationalized? Mr President, nothing has yet been said on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u47	Mr Minister, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, from the CDS, asked you how you will make the evaluation, such a thermometer that does not cure the fever but that, if you throw it out, you will not know what the temperature of the patient's fever is. In other words, the Minister has no methods, no means or tools to assess the situation of students. More than half of the students don't make the test of measurement, which you said would be universal, and those who said they would do it if nothing happened to them. I mean, it's proven that the evidence is useless.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u48	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u49	Well, how are you going to have ways of evaluation? You said that the first thing you have focused on was internal evaluation, but if you have no method of evaluating, how will you be able to implement policies for correcting or monitoring these tests? Tell us how you're going to do it. The Minister said here that there are students who are not adapted to the curriculum that they are 12 years old and that the previous government, for the ill-treatment of these children, created vocational education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u50	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u51	Well, they don't adapt to the curriculum that is,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u52	Aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u53	... they are unable to make the adaptation to the curriculum. And yet, it simply ends with this solution, but there is no alternative measure. They are still inadequate, they are still unsuccessful, but they have no response from the school. This is what the Minister here told us today, because he does not point to any alternative measures for them. Finally, Mr Minister, we have heard some of the Ministry's officials, and I believe that Mr Minister too, say that he is under assessment and as an alternative to changing school cycles, eventually in six plus six. Now, as far as the tranquillity that Mr Minister has announced is concerned, we have not checked it, we have found exactly the opposite. What we find in schools, teachers, students, parents is a constant restlessness, because they don't know what it's going to be like, they don't know how some of Mr. Minister's announcements will be adapted and implemented. With regard to this change in the curriculum of compulsory education, what do you have to tell us about this? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u54	Mr Amadeu Soares Albertaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u55	Mr President, Minister for Education, with the school year approaching the end, it seems to us that we should, in this call, begin by making a balance sheet of how it is going. A school year of revenge; a school year of reversals. A school year of instability. A school year of social confrontation in local educational communities. A school year captured by left radicalism. A school year that started a wrong and retrograde path, where the student no longer became the center of educational political action. Too many problems, too much controversy, for a sector that wants and deserves consensus, that wants and goods quality, that wants and deserves assessment, that deserves predictability, that deserves autonomy, that is and deserves autonomy, that deserves a minister on 5 October, evaluated by his work for students and not evaluated by the realization of old trade union desires for the absolute statization of education. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u56	Within a few months the families were confronted with three different evaluation models: the international certification of English has disappeared; vocational education has disappeared in the basic; and progressive and incrementalist policies have disappeared, moderate way of acting from so many ministers of education, including the Socialist Party. We, Mr. Minister, are not going that way! We know where and where we want to go! We are on our way to the intransigent defence of a public service of quality education, able to promote equity and equal opportunity for all. We go through the educational policies that always place and above all the best interest of the students. We promote those who are the pillars of quality in education: rigor; a stable and valued teaching body; adjusted programs and clear goals; autonomy and decentralization; monitoring, regulation and transparency. We have a very different path from the one that is crawling along with the radical left and the trade unionist Mário Nogueira. Take the path, Mr Minister, and resume a moderate, stable and sustained educational policy. A course that has enabled Portugal to improve the qualification profile of its population in recent years. Mr. Minister, take your way and start now. The PSD presented to this House a draft deliberation to request the National Council of Education a rigorous and comprehensive study to measure the cost structure in state schools and in private and cooperative schools that receive public funding. A sensible proposal, which will certainly help to make a more accurate and fair decision in relation to schools that are part of the public network, but whose ownership is not of the State. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Does the Minister agree with this proposal? Is it available to wait for this study and to comply with the multi-year contracts concluded with schools with association contracts within the negotiating and competitive assumptions in which they were signed? Or would you rather answer me with the chorus of the left and with the argument, primary and pamphlet, that we are against the state school? This argument is that the history of the PSD, as a constructor of a public education service, from freghesia boards to municipal chambers, from Autonomous Regions to government, is categorically misleading. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u57	Mr Minister, the closure of schools in the public network, the dismissal of thousands of teachers and employees, the interruption of educational courses is a very serious measure and, so far, completely unjustified. Let us hope that your decision is not based on a purely statistical study, a study via Google Maps, where the territories are virtual and the people who inhabit them are not seen. A study where two brothers study at different schools. A study that allows a student to leave school now, go to another school and then return to school to do the secondary school, breaking his pedagogical course. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u58	A study that spoke to those responsible, but did not speak to those whose measure affected them severely. A study that does not help to make a decision but to validate a preponent and insensitive decision. There is another way: meet the contracts, accept and wait for the study of the National Council of Education. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u59	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u60	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u61	Mr President, following what has now been said by Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, who has requested concrete documents, I request that a table of the Public Employment Statistical Synthesis ( STEP ) be distributed, which shows that in the period corresponding to the mandate of the previous Government more than 20,000 public school teachers'jobs have been destroyed. It is a concrete record that rejects what Mr has just said.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u62	Mr. Deputies, it will be distributed and Mr. Members will draw the conclusions they understand. [[PCP applause.]] To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u63	Mr President, Minister for Education, the vision of a school that addresses the quality of learning, which includes, integrates, promotes equality, corrects social asymmetries and how citizens have been incomprehensiblely interrupted and is now being resumed—and well—with this government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u64	The CDS wants balance sheets? All right. Are you asking questions about education? All right, but we also have a balance sheet for the last four and a half years, a balance sheet that is frankly negative, and we don't need a thermometer. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u65	It's negative because it's made of setbacks and a colossal disinvestment in public school. A sector that was not quiet, Mrs Deputies; a sector that was in distress, in despair. We regret that education has not been the priority that now appears to be for the CDS and PSD benches and that instead it has been the sector in which it has been most disinvested, where resources have been emptied and where teachers, students and parents have been merely economic and reducing policy instruments. For us, parents, students and teachers are not instrumental, they are the essence of the education system! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We believe that we cannot give up any young person, nor allow young people to stop studying or repeat years successively, this requires an ongoing investment, an effort to value study, participation, methods, knowledge, experience, learning to be and knowledge. This vision requires the conviction that everyone should learn, integrating children with NES (special health needs) in the room, rejecting early socially segregation dualizations, establishing a new strategy for students at risk of exclusion. Minister, we would like to know how many students we are talking about and who were sent early to the vocation. What damage and sequelae arise from this early referral? in response to this challenge and to this vision of public education service for all we are well to design public education policies oriented to the promotion of equity, efficiency and quality. The school, ladies and gentlemen, is an institution and cannot be compared to any service or merchandise... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u66	... should not be students, but unfortunately it has been treated in recent years, having broken a consensus built over more than 40 years. It is essential to correct the backlogs in education that have degraded public school, with regard to equity in access and educational success and the conditions and capacity of schools to educate with autonomy for citizenship in a network society. That is our way, we will not turn back, it is our strategy, which has its daily light and inspiration in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. First of all, we had to start by increasing the income available to families in the State Budget, in order to reverse the inequalities and levels of poverty that have severely reached our children and young people, because talking about educational success is also talking about better social and economic conditions for families, is talking about the resumption and appreciation of adult education that is also reflected here. For us, parents, mothers and families cannot be worse when the country is better, because people are the center of politics and the best of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, having debates on birth, family and demographics when previous policies put at risk of poverty 850,000 children and young people are at least provocative. As the Government Programme and the National Reform Programme set up a high priority and national plan to combat school failure, ensuring 12 years of schooling. As the Minister of Education rightly pointed out in the urgent debate on qualifications of 7 April, to meet the target of 10 % school drop-out in 2020, it is necessary to combat the high number of retentions that have doubled in the transition between cycles over the past two years, so, as I said, we cannot rest for one minute. in this design, as a measure of great scope, the universalization of the offer of pre-school education to all children from three to five years old, because it is in pre-school that the foundations for the personal and social development of children are created, he is, above all, predictor of success and its universalization is the key to a more solid and with better results. Mr Minister, in this enlargement of the offer we will count on what partners and what networks? I would like you to say here what you said in April at the 8th hearing of the Commission. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The 1st. the cycle will be prioritized so that at the end of the legislature retention is residual, so, and as he said, the learning model focuses on measurement and not on seriality, ensuring that early diagnosis will be made and that learnings will be monitored in the years in which these assessments are determinants: 2. o, 5. it's 8. years. What, then, is the point of the situation with regard to these assessments? Mr Minister, the strengthening of School Social Action ( ESA ) at all levels of education, the gradual limitation of the number of students per class and the progressive free and reuse of school textbooks for 100 000 children of 1. the year from September 2016 will be strong guarantors of the promotion of equity in the teaching system, which we also greet. Minister, three more questions: what will be the participation of students in the school OP(participative budget)? What will be the role of certification of extracurricular activities in the balisation of citizenship, which is so lacking in public school, which is back? Minister, teachers are decisive and strategic for the quality of the education system. in this process of promoting success autonomy is very important. What mechanism will be developed for the appreciation of teachers and their ability to participate in the construction of curricula and in the innovation of learning? Finally, I would like to ask: What new perspectives open up in the life of schools if we integrate the dynamics that promote local development in the generalization of full-time school and school sports? Mr. Minister, let's move forward without fear, this is the right way! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u67	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u68	Mr President, Minister of Education, austerity has served as a justification for everything the right one wanted to do and undo in the country. The policies for artistic education, as you have already mentioned, are evidence of this fact, taking refuge in the argument that it was necessary to cut the cost, the Ministry of Education Nuno Crato did not give up destroying artistic education in Portugal. And this policy of burned land has essentially been creating chaos here. They took down the funding of these artistic schools, delayed the transfers to these schools for two consecutive years, put at risk hundreds of jobs for teachers and employees, created the greatest instability that artistic education has already known and left parents in agony for not knowing if their children's school would open the following year. at the time, in an act of pure political cowardice, the government of the right and of Nuno Crato blamed the Court of Auditors, but it had been incompetence of the Ministry of Education itself in instructing these proceedings, incompetence, that which created the chaos. Apart from the disaster in funding, Crato decided to invent a new model of evaluation for specialized artistic education students, which is also highly unfair. And speaking of chaos, Mr Minister, you may recall the honourable Members. Right-wingers how was artistic education when you received this pasta? How many teachers were at risk of being fired? How much did they have to pay back? And how many months were those delays? One month, two months, half a year? And how many employees have come to the street, Minister? How many school directors have paid to pay the salaries that the right government has not paid? And how many had to pay the interest and debts of their own purse? How many students could have missed classes not in the school year after but in the week after? Mr. Minister, when the right speaks to us in chaos, of course, you can only be talking about the inheritance you left us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u69	The Minister of Education has the floor to respond to this set of requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to begin by saying to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa that we are going to talk about other things than association contracts, which are important association contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u71	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u72	The last question Mr. Abel Baptista raised was about the public discussion of the transformation of the three basic cycles plus secondary education in six plus six. The honourable Member must attend education science courses at our universities. It is true that this is a public discussion, it is true that in the education sciences, in other European countries, these issues are discussed, but no member of the government has ever heard of even the possibility of having a different division between cycles and secondary education. It is true that this is an important academic discussion, a discussion that exists in other countries and will always be on the horizon of this team to analyze what exists in other countries for, hypothetically and how we have done about other issues, replicate in Portugal. But in particular, this issue has never been a public discussion launched by this team and has never heard it from our team. The honourable Member also spoke about vocational education and its importance. As you know, Mr, 44% of the students are currently in vocational education, with high levels of school failure. With regard to vocational education, our goals are clear: on the one hand, we have 10% school dropouts also in vocational education in 2020 and, on the other hand, we can increase the universe and its strength, never stigmatizing vocational education, with the possibility of 50% of students who finish secondary education can attend it through professional double-certification courses, i.e. academic and professional. Then, too, in this professional way, we intend to reduce school failure by half, also ensuring that in the future 50% of the population complete secondary education by this way. The important measures that need to be implemented relate, above all, to the systematic delays that have existed in the last four years in defining the network and payments to professional schools. In fact, not only to private professional schools, but also to the public schools that they had, and have, professional education. Mr President, it is necessary to define more coherent, more coherent and more systematic the vocational training network, articulating all actors and various systems, also drawing them according to the learning results. at this time, we are also creating and implementing a national system of credits for vocational education and training, within the principles of the European system. On the other hand, we are implementing a quality assurance system, which is very important so that institutions that provide vocational education can be certified, based on the European System of Credits for Education and Vocational Training (ECVET). It is also important to adapt the training supply to the needs of the market and to make this link with the business world and the industrial world, developing a system of anticipation of qualifications needs, with its local or regional deepening. As you should imagine, in a territory like ours, the High Mint, it is important to study it, to feel what needs and to be able to adapt to vocational education. Finally, it is necessary to qualify the adult vocational training network through the training of technicians and training professionals. With regard to pre-school education, I wanted to say that, as you know, and it is true, in previous governments there was a bet on possible universalization at the age of four, which has not been achieved, but what is included in the XXI Constitutional Government Programme is a commitment to effectively universalization at the age of three, with important measures. As you know, pre-school education is highly predictive regarding its frequency and educational success. in this sense, we are also proceeding at this time to review the curricular guidelines for pre-school education, to produce pedagogical guidelines for day care, as the best international practices say, and to the important continuing training of educators. He asked how we would implement some of these measures that are so important. I would say that the curricular guidelines for pre-school education are currently in written consultation, as you should know, and the publication is planned for the next few months. On the other hand, there is a preparation for continuing training with a clear focus on the transitions between day care and pre-school education and between pre-school education and 1. the cycle. at this time, there is the organization of a conference for the public presentation of these curriculum guidelines, in the same way that we did with the educational community regarding the curriculum. We are also working on continuing training, dissemination and preparation of the implementation of the guidelines. Importantly, Mrs. Susana Amador asked how we're going to be able to extend the network. in fact, I have already said in the Parliamentary Commission, except for a mistake more than three months ago, that this enlargement must be made throughout the legislature. We have the problems of birth and demographics that Mr. Abel Baptista knows, and in this sense we will have the existing public network and also the partners of the social network and the private network, where it is necessary and where there is a lack of supply, so that this can be effectively achieved. As regards the assessment, Mr. Abel Baptista, we have no means to measure the system is wrong, we have means to measure it. He erroneously said that there is not 50 % that will do the measurement tests that we proposed this year, but that is wrong, there is more than 50 % and we have a significant sample to make a real measurement. But as we would like to point out for the first time, we have extended to other disciplines, and this year we also respect the decision of the schools, as was also discussed here in the Commission, contrary to what has been done in the previous government. With regard to the previous government, I would like to speak with Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, who refers here in this House to concrete questions such as revenge. I would like to ask the honourable Member whether the PSD calls a retaliation to a government which is, on the one hand, supported in this House and, on the other, insists on fulfilling its programme. [[Protests by PSD Member Amadeu Soares Alberaria.]] Perhaps it is something strange to you, Mr, but this is not revenge, it is compliance with what this House has given us. [[PSD protests.]] On the other hand, you said that there is no stability in schools, but it is important to say that if we had not actually paid the debts...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u73	Are you here to talk about debts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u74	...that if we were to pay, put normality back in our relationships with teachers and put students in the center, we could have instability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I would also like to say to you, Mr President, that this is not revenge, it is reconstruction of the destroyed. Where has the honourable Member been in the last six months, when he talks to us about many of the things we have mentioned here? [[P.S.'s applause.]] When you talk about association contracts, where has the honourable Member been in the last 15 days? The teaching body has been stabilized by the ECB. That's what stabilized, I wonder? On other important issues, he spoke in social conflict. Does this accusation of social conflict really come from the PSD?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u75	So it doesn't exist? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u76	Concertation, for us, for the PS and for this government, will never be a problem. It is not a problem the consultation with Dr. Mário Nogueira of FenPROF, but it is also not a problem the consultation with Dr. Dias da Silva of FNE, which is of the social-democratic workers, because being with the unions, being with the Council of Schools, being in conjunction with the recommendations of the National Council of Education is not, nor will it ever be, a problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is up to us, Mr President, to give peace to schools, because war has been on them for many years, and that is where we are working. With regard to the issues which Mrs Susana Amador has put to me, I wanted to say that the whole school, or rather, full-time education is absolutely fundamental. As you know, the diagnosis is clear. On the one hand, we have family rhythms that make the most disadvantaged classes those who do not have occupations for children outside school hours and we also know that extracurricular activities are a predictor of school success, whether culturally or in support of study or sports, and also have to be articulated with the curriculum. On the other hand, there are serious social asymmetries between those who can afford these activities and those who cannot pay them and we know that at the moment, the whole school, full-time education already exists for the students of 1. the cycle. Therefore, what we really want is an extension of these activities, with the whole environment and social context of IPSS, collectivities and municipalities, which are so important, so that these curriculum enrichment activities can also happen in the 2. o is 3. or cycles. And, as I said, we are also working in an important way with the municipalities for this to happen. With regard to strengthening school social action, I would like to say that it is indeed a guarantee, because already in the State budget this year we have established an increase of 3, 3 %, and that is our commitment, to assist in food support, housing, school transport, economic aid to those who need it, school insurance and accident prevention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u77	And what's new about that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u78	Mr Luís Monteiro spoke in artistic education and we have already discussed it in this House. In fact, we have coordinated a task force in our offices — forgive me anglycism — a working group, to work with our services so that they can report everything that has happened in recent months in order to be able to be resolved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u79	The Minister has four further requests for clarification, starting with Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of The Greens. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u80	Mr President, Minister, you have noticed that Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP does not want to talk about the past. In fact, she expressly said: « We do not want to talk about the past».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u81	Podera!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u82	So you did not answer the question that The Greens asked about how many teachers you have taken out of the teaching system.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u83	I had already answered that question!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u84	The honourable Member did not want to say that it was more than 20 000 people who had "flashed" the teaching system throughout your term of office.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u85	Was it 20,000 or 30,000? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u86	Mrs Deputy did not want to talk about the past because she did not want the Portuguese to remember that the CDS, by chance, held the social security record in the previous government and that the Ministry cut the special education allowance to thousands of children. The honourable Member did not want us to remember this, but, Minister, it is essential that we look at the past to see what concrete practice and its impact, the concrete consequences of this policy, so that we do not make the same mistakes again. Those children with special educational needs who, for example, needed gestal-language interpreters and who had them already had the school year running long ago, what is it? It is not to call children, students, and their needs at all! At the time, we denounced this and you simply didn't do anything. In fact, they did: they cut into the special education allowance. Mr Minister, children with special educational needs deserve very special attention, because the previous governments have simply ignored these special educational needs. I ask the Minister how it is to ensure that an effective response is being given to these children and families, who cannot continue to be neglected. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to ask another question, which has to do with non-teaching staff in schools. The number of non-teaching staff in public schools is very little in view of the need to ensure safety and effectiveness in schools. And the former government, there it is, also cut in relation to the non-teaching staff of the public school, Mr. Minister. How are we going to get closer...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u87	Mrs. Member, I was a little distracted. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u88	Mr President, please say in passing that your distraction has given me very good.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u89	It's weird, but it happens. Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u90	I end by asking a question: how is the government going to bring these non-teachers closer to the needs that schools actually have? Thank you for your distraction, Mr. President. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u91	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the former Government, the PSD and the CDS, agreed on their intervention at the level of educational policies, for a total investment in education, for a deepening of the attack on public school and its agents, for the disresponsibility of the State to what should be the role of public school: an area of inclusion, overcoming economic and social inequalities and for individual and collective emancipation of individuals. Some of these measures have been corrected. On a proposal from the PCP, it was possible to revoke the process of requalification of teachers, which aimed to send to the street a large number of career teachers and other professionals of education. On a proposal from the PCP, it was also possible to put an end to the CAPC ( Knowledge and Capacity Assessment Test ), a proof that had the main objective of reducing the number of teachers, who publicly humiliated hired teachers, who disrespected the initial higher education cycle and instituted the professional, family and staff instability of so many families. On a proposal from the PCP, it was possible to initiate a process of progressive freeness of school textbooks, with the prospect of ensuring equality in school access, at a time when Portuguese families are faced with severe difficulties to bear the basic costs with education. At this moment, in the specialty, the proposal of the CFP to reduce the number of students per class is under discussion. Mr. Minister, the teacher recruitment contest has been stained by injustice and disrespect by the teaching class, because professional graduation is not observed. in fact, PSD and CDS created situations of injustice that must be urgently eliminated by the harmful effects to which many teachers were subjected. The so-called ‘standard-work’ is no more than an obstacle to the linkage of teachers in the career because it requires that, in addition to five years of service and four renewals, they are successive, full-time and annual and in the same recruitment group. Mr Minister, what measures does the Government intend to take to ensure the linkage of teachers, to ensure the stability of their lives and the functioning of the school? [[PCP and the Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u93	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u94	Mr President, since we are discussing whether or not we are talking about the past, I would like to ask Mrs Susana Amador, taking advantage of the PCP, where was Mrs Deputy when she went to the street 100,000 teachers in challenge by the policies of her party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u95	If we do not stop talking about the past, it is also worth talking about these periods.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u97	In the debate where he is concerned, and why Mr Minister said, well, that association contracts, not being the only issue, are important, I would also like to give him a few words. The discussion of association contracts began, if you recall, by a petition from FenPROF, which entered here in the Assembly of the Republic, which requested not only the end of these contracts...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u98	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u99	... such as the end of all private contracts—development contracts, simple contracts, sponsorship contracts for artistic education. The discussion started because it was like this. Then it became an ideological discussion about the importance of school. It then became a discussion on contracts and its alleged challenger. Next, it became a discussion on cost duplication and finally on the possibility of offering school textbooks. Mr President, what is the point of this debate for you? Is it about the property of the school? Is it about costs and a certain form of austerity about efficiency savings? Is it an ideological discussion or is it a discussion about public service quality, results and satisfaction of families? Mr. Nuno Magalhães ( CDS-PP ). - All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u100	Mr. Minister, I still don't understand the change in why this fire has been fired. You went to save?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u101	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u102	It is because, if you went to save, I assure you that, in the exercise of our parliamentary functions, we will monitor this savings up to the last penny. And, Minister, do not tell me that these schools will be compensated with preschool and vocational training, because if they do not serve to provide public education in regular education, tell me what assurance and what confidence they can provide in pre-school or vocational education. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u103	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Germana Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister, I told you some time ago, in this Chamber, that you had begun wrong and that you were going from bad to worse. Unfortunately, today I am obliged to reaffirm this because, with regard to the organization of the next school year, once again, Mr Minister goes back in time, which results in a serious damage to the educational community in general, jeopardising the stability, efficiency and functioning of educational establishments. The next school year’s organization office does not stimulate the improvement of schools, and this is another missed opportunity. Or let's see. The allocation of hourly credits to schools will depend only on two factors: the number of classes in schools and the set of hours of reduction of the educational component of their teachers. Does the Minister think that this is how students are encouraged by their success? It is not enough to announce, it is necessary to carry out. In this regard, I recall that in recent years we have seen a sharp reduction in the early school dropout rate and that, last year, about 40% of schools have improved their performance. It is that, with this model, schools that greatly improve their performance and the success of their students will be able to see their time credits reduced. The current proposal thus extinguishes the mechanism of incentive for improvement, verified in the previous system, which served not only the number of classes, but also the performance of schools, regardless of the starting level, impoverishes the quality of teaching of artistic and physical-motor expressions and does not stimulate the development of technological resources activities, making it dependent on the strengthening of credit hours of special foundation and the authorization of the central administration, which means more opacity and bureaucracy in the system. The opinion issued and approved unanimously by the Council of Schools takes up the proposed organisation of the next school year, challenging the fact that the allocation of the hourly credits is again dependent on two purely administrative criteria that escape direct action by the school management bodies, thus limiting their autonomy, contrary to what happened in the previous model, in which this autonomy was strengthened by taking into account the commitment and dynamism of each of the schools to achieve objectives of improving their results and reducing school dropout, which will cease to happen with the model now proposed. In view of this, I ask you, Minister, whether you will take this project forward, even with an opinion that is clearly demolition regarding the organization of the next school year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u105	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u106	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking you for your questions. Ladies and gentlemen. Regarding special education, I said this here at the beginning, but we also need to make a clear diagnosis of what we have. On the one hand, we have a low participation of students with special needs in the activities of the classes, only — and this is an important number — 28 % of students are present all the time in their classes. On the other hand, it must be taken into account that we must distinguish between the various problems leading to special educational needs, whether or not they are of a permanent character, whether or not they are of a prolonged character, in order to determine whether they can be configured in temporary special educational needs. To this end, it is necessary to clarify the competences and the relationship between the therapeutic support and the educational support that these students need. As I said, there is a specific recommendation by the United Nations that there be a review of the legislation for these students to be in their classrooms most of the time. in this sense, on the one hand, a working group was created for legislative production within the scope of the review of Decree-Law No 3 / 2008 and on the other hand—and we also defend it when we discuss the budget of education—, it is important to allocate funds for the vocational training of technical and teaching staff. In addition, I refer to the induction of more inclusion by changing the regulatory order on registrations, with an increase in the length of stay in the classroom of students with special educational needs, and the promotion of continuous training of teachers of special education recruitment groups. I would also like to point out that at the moment we are raising all schools, therefore on a case-by-case basis, the special educational needs that exist. Regarding the special education grant, I must say that it must be revised to clarify the legal issues that have been raised, which have been many, this is one of the themes of the special education working group. With regard to non-teaching staff and at 35 hours, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, it must be said that, according to what I had the opportunity to announce in this House, around 2900 fixed-term contracts have already been renewed, ending on 31 August, which are very important, considering the objectives of meeting the needs and efficient management of non-teaching human resources of the various groupings and schools not grouped. Madam Member, we know this is not enough. We also know that, in matters of non-teaching personnel, a part is managed by the Ministry of Education and another part is managed by inter-administrative contracts and contracts for the execution of transfers of competences to municipalities, whose competence, as you know, is from their municipalities. Therefore, we will also work to increase the number of non-teaching staff so that there can be a better quality of service delivery in this area. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, with regard to association contracts, I have to confess to her that I liked the quiz she made me at the beginning with regard to multiple responses. It did not give me the possibility of grouping several answers so that my answer would be composed. What I want to tell you is that it is not just a problem of saving, but also of complying with the law and investment in the country, investment too — and I say - without any problems - in public school, in our public school, in the public school of Mrs Deputy! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u107	Minister, I thank you for your indifference!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u108	With regard to the question which Mrs Rocha has put, I should like to say that the organisational order of the school year is now, as you know, in the stage of trade union negotiations, as is enshrined in the law. Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria will find this strange, but the law of the Portuguese Republic thus obliges us, and we do so with great pleasure. The most significant changes are, on the one hand, the simplification of the hourly credit calculation formula and, on the other hand, and as I said in the initial intervention, the calculation of the hourly credit is based on the principle that the largest number of classes corresponds to the largest number of students, the greater diversity of courses and the need for more hours for work. And when I say work, I mean support to our students. It must also be borne in mind that the organisational order of the school year has this year the possibility of flexibility in the management of the hourly credit, which has been very well received by many of the directors, and there is also the provision of a specific credit which is registered in the Normative Order of Organization of the school year for, at the level of the tutorials I presented at the beginning and that I will still have the opportunity to speak, if possible, to accompany students with two or more retention situations. The credit time will be understood as working time and, above all, not as prize time, as it was understood so far. On the other hand, the preparation of this diploma was based on the actual needs of the honourable Member, with the possibility of using all of the hourly credit, which had not happened until this school year in which the formula, almost impossible to understand, was difficult to achieve and in which much of the hourly credit that was given to schools ended up not being used, which was clearly burdensome and made the response capacity of the school directors very complex. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u109	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the debate. For an intervention, Mrs Odete João has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u110	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Education, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The debate is going on. We talked about public school, about students of school age, but I also bring to this debate the qualification of adults, because this is still a priority of the socialist government. Despite the enormous efforts made through the New Opportunities programme, we still lack qualifications. It is urgent to resume a concerted programme that promotes the qualification of Portuguese and therefore the Socialist Government has enshrined this matter as the first strategic axis of the National Reform Programme. I ask you, Minister, what you are thinking about adult education so that by 2020 you reach 15% of adults in lifelong learning activities. We also know that adult qualification is a way to promote the success of their children. Mr Minister, the National Programme for the Promotion of School Success is precisely in this direction by seeking to involve the entire educational community in a framework to enhance equal opportunities and increase efficiency and quality of public institutions. It is urgent to move forward with this programme and the government has already taken the first steps, particularly with the training of teachers. This program does not create a ghetto of students for vocational education, does not create a ghetto of students who are segregated by national exams and the measurement evidence shows that it is necessary to prevent school failure. We know that, in the school support instruments, the PSD allocated more hours of support, but found a scheme that prohibited its use in a completely demagogic and inopinable way. Mr Minister, the question I am asking is: on this programme, what is being done beyond teacher training? What is being done beyond the fact that the teachers have been investigated and that it is clear that this government listens to all its partners, does it listen to all the officials? This is fundamental for us to explore the right path of education in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u111	The Bureau makes a waiting compass, waiting for the gentlemen. Members take the initiative to sign up, because at the moment there are no entries.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u112	Does anyone have anything to say? It's weird! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u113	Mr Pedro Alves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u114	Mr President, Minister for Education, Mr.a and Mr. State Secretaries, Mr.as and Mrs. Members: The crusade of the ideological agenda of government and management does not stop. If its effects on the country's economy and finances have already begun to be evident as a result of an option by an archaic model and with bad proof in the last 20 years, the effects on education, although not shown with equal clarity, are leading to a huge educational retreat. in fact, for this government students are simply another exchange currency for management to work. All the proposed changes in education and qualification result only from the ideological delay of the management parties, who are ashamed to take on an effective government coalition.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u115	He spoke more about management than in education!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u116	Today, no one has any doubts. Education policy is co-opted by union radicalism, with a single objective: to eradicate everything that has been achieved in the last five years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u117	He can only be kidding!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u118	Since this government began its duties, there has not been a single measure that has been able to transmit confidence or stability to educational communities. Initiatives are vulvacious and torn apart, discontinued and distorted of reality, and they only serve this setting. Minister of Education, you have already had time to realize that the school is not a laboratory of political tests and neither can students be guinea pigs for communist social populism. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was last day 17, five years that the Socialist Government of José Socrates, composed of some members of the current government, signed the Memorandum with the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u119	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u120	Despite the harsh inheritance and constraints imposed upon us, we do not forget that the construction of a quality education system, a public education system adapted to reality, is a mission of all. The journey was difficult and even we could have done it alone. We didn't. We counted on the collaboration of the educational community: students, parents, employees, teachers and directors, who were exceptional in achievements of which we were proud. During this period, the Portuguese education system had a very positive evolution, mirrored in some of the main international benchmark indicators, such as the realization of the expansion of compulsory education, fully achieved in the summer of 2015 ; improvements in secondary school enrolment rates in young people aged 15, 16 and 17 years ; the very positive evolution of secondary education completion rate; or the acceleration of the reduction of early dropout rate of education and training from 28, 3 % in 2010 to 13, 7% in 2015. What, then, about the placement of more assistants in school — only last year were more than 3000 hired — or about the linkage to the frameworks of the Ministry of Education of more than 4200 teachers? We know it wasn't easy times, but together we went further. Financial reinforcement for artistic education was determined; it ended with the party and school park regabofe, investing with rigor, transparency and quality; it was affixed to the enhancement of professional and vocational education, as ways of quality qualification. Much more could be said, but these examples are eloquent enough to mark the contrast and alternative to what happens today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u122	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u123	Mr President, Minister, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State : All this was achieved with strict budget and respect for the taxpayers' money that they thought at the time was de-investment. All this was done without precipitation, carefully, with preparation and respect for students, families, teachers and schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u125	The current government chose to break with the tradition of gradualism, broke lines of political continuity — most of the time just because of it — and called into question the principle of trust, establishing instability and unpredictability among educational communities. In a few months, the current Minister compared schools, students and families with three changes in the student external evaluation system, pushing the schools to solve a problem he created. In fact, the response of the schools was clear: almost half had reasoned reasons not to apply the measurement tests. in the path of instability, they ended, without more, with the certification of English no. 9. the year, with the offer of vocational courses in the basic, measures that had the support of families and that external evaluations considered very positive. They now say that they want to fight precariousness and, if so, open, in the teacher contest for 2016 / 2017, only 100 new places in the paintings. Instead, they prefer to bet on resorting to contracts, much cheaper for the public record. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] In fact, the proposal of Dispatch of Mobility for Diseases shows as well as views of school teachers: mere numbers subject to quotas and the rules of the national list. They say they promote information and transparency, but they empty the InfoSchools portal of quality indicators.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u126	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u127	They say to promote autonomy, but they present a proposal for organisational order of the school year that no longer does but retreats in the autonomy of schools. They say to promote quality, but publish a registration order that questions the quality of the public education service by limiting, blindly and administratively, the conditions for reducing the number of students per class, in the case of the presence of students with permanent special educational needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u129	They say they are fulfilling the commitments made, concerned with students and families, but they treat us as mere numbers of an Excel sheet. They introduce instability and social confrontation in local educational communities, launching public schools against private and cooperative schools, when both are at the service of the public education supply network. They present numbers and values without known support, raise suspicions and stimulate distrust, decide without knowing or evaluating the social and economic impacts of the measures. The decision on the opening of cycle start classes in schools with association contract is paradigmatic in this way. And what did we hear? Good intentions, vague absolutely round and empty interventions of words that everyone likes to hear, announcements of tomorrow's singing, of the management of expectations that varies according to the interlocutor — « we guarantee contract », « we will invest for the year », « other contracts will be made» — or locally reassuring words — « do not worry, everything is being taken into account duly. Do not keep on seeking. ” What do we really have? Mission structures, postponement of promises assumed, promotion of precariousness, retrogression of autonomy, impoverishment of the quality of teaching, bureaucracy and enlightened centralism, i.e., lack of coherent direction. But, above all, and most worrying, it is already clear that for the current Minister students and their real qualification are the last of their concerns. This is the state of our education, led by a minister who decides without hearing, a minister who hears without hearing, a minister who assesses without knowing, a minister who recommends or imposes without knowing, a minister who does not govern or decides for himself and who has become the playful attraction of this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u130	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : There are two possible models in a school. There is a model that, I think, no one in this House can support and that few people in the country would support and that consists in building a thing called 'level classes'. In other words, boys with more difficulty would go to class B, boys with better grades would go to class A. Then there is the model of classes where all students, the best and the worst, because they also influence each other and reflect the differences with which we grow in society. in a country, models work more or less the same way. There is a model that is a level school where market rules work, in which the State gives a check to the family and families have the freedom of choice, but colleges also have the freedom to choose which students want to integrate into their classes. Result: they are elite schools. The best students go to the best schools, the worst end up in a large undifferentiated majority of schools, for which the worst resources are allocated. This is what showed us Sweden's teaching check model. This model creates social segregation and does not create school success, quite the contrary. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Our country rejected this model and accepted the other model, that of public school, that of a school paid for all and that serves everyone, a school that is open enough and democratic enough to respect differences, but to fight the social inequalities that exist in differences. The only school that guarantees us that both the doctor's son and the stoner's son have the freedom to decide what they will want to be in the future, because they have received the same quality of teaching. The only school that seeks the most difficult, that is to respect differences and try to find what is best for each one, through pedagogical differentiation. What did Nuno Crato do to this public school? He cut EUR 1300 million, fired 30 000 teachers, fired 20,000 workers, let students have classes in containers, as happened in Monte de Caparica or, then, let students have classes in classrooms so wet that you can't breathe in there, as is the case of Alexandre Herculano school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u132	Of course that's settled!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u133	A school that should be for all and for all, Nuno Crato trained the teaching to fit into the 30 questions of any examination of 4. the class. He said that Portuguese and Mathematics are worth more and that they are more structural than the arts, than the expressions, ended with the Area of Project and with the Civic Formation. in the abrupt confusion of the change of curricula and of programs made in haste, only became interested in the cursed goals, well-trained and well-mechanized. But how schools form, how schools teach and how students learn we don't know anything. What does the right say? He says it's okay. It's okay because we have a ranking. But what does ranking matter if the last school of this ranking deals with social and pedagogical problems that a college has never seen, even miles away? What does it matter if these schools, which are in the last places of the ranking, have classes without teachers for months and months due to the disaster that was the school contract scholarship invented by Nuno Crato? For the ranking none of this matters because the school that is in the last place will always be the worst school in the country. What did they want the ranking for? Was it to improve the education conditions of those who were in the last places? So why did Minister Crato give more school support teachers who had worse ranking results and withdraw these support teachers to help the schools that had better ranking results? Was it to improve those who had the most difficulty or was to create a competition that rewarded those who had the best conditions and create inequality in teaching? [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] If you want to talk about success in school, why are there 22,000 students in vocational courses from the age of 12, to whom the system says that school is not their future, that school has no future for them? Why are psychologists lacking, why do they lack therapists, why do they fire 25,000 recruits, why do they lack special education teachers, why have they increased the number of students per class, why have they ignored that pre-school and parent education are essential to school success? Why have they not universalized preschool, why have they ended adult training, which is also the training of parents who bring these children up? [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Were these the policies of the future? The CDS comes here talking about the future. These were the policies of the future or these are the policies of a past of iniquity, a past of social inequality, reproduced by the school, to which we do not want to return? Our country rejected the model of exclusion education and entrusted to the public school the role of educating all, with respect for the differences. It also respected the freedom of private education: it created temporary association contracts to cover temporary needs of the public network. Some of these contracts became public money income to a few, few, private colleges, while the public school lost resources. And this is abuse. But did the CDS worry about this? Did the CDS worry about network studies? Did the CDS worry about transferring public money to the private? Did the CDS worry about the destruction of the public school? Did the CDS worry about taxpayers' money? Don't! The CDS didn't want to know about any of this. Bridge! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u134	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : PSD and CDS, over the past four years, have led a political and legislative campaign against public school which has translated into a process of closing schools—which had already come from behind—...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u136	Who, who? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u137	...which reached almost 5,000 public schools. There were thousands of teachers released for unemployment and the upheaval of teachers themselves in the public square — all this always on the pretext that there was no money — the suspension of works in all public schools leaving students in containers — because there was no money — the lack of financing of artistic education — because there was no money — the lack of vocational education — because there was no money — and now the scandal because it is necessary to re-evaluate association contracts, because it is necessary to comply with the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u138	The law and the constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u139	Now there is no longer the question of « no money», because it is necessary to secure the business, in the shadow of public resources. Mrs. Members, which is very clear: association contracts should serve anyone who wants to have a school but does not have a public school. It's not for who you have, but you don't want to. [[PCP applause.]] The association contract and public financing are not to ensure a whim, they are to ensure a right, and private schools that are guaranteeing that right, that of access to education, must continue and should be safeguarded. Those who are doubling an offer are purely and simply unreasonable from a political point of view, both financially and budgetaryly. The policy of the former Government was not a policy of incompetence, but directed towards the destruction of public school or at least its subversion: it intended to place the public school in the interests of the large economic groups, to place the public school as an element and an instrument for replicating asymmetries, reproduction and enlargement of injustices. We need to reverse that direction. In order to do so, some political measures are already identified, which can be said, in some areas, stand that way or, better, even start to reverse it. That is: the regularization of transfers to artistic and vocational education; the end of exams that were no more than obstacles, especially to the poorest...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u140	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u141	It must be remembered that the same parties, PSD and CDS, who are always talking about differences between people and that different solutions are needed for each other because no one is the same, when it comes to exams, as it is to chumbar, are all the same. [[PCP applause.]] Equal examinations for all, regardless of whether they are in a school of rich or poor, regardless of whether they have explanations and money to pay them or not, regardless of the roof of the school, they are falling or have all the conditions. Equal tests are already applied to all! Continued: free manuals for now no 1. the year of 1. the cycle and with the prospect of extending to all compulsory schooling; the re-evaluation of a network of association contracts and their rationalization—there is a space for private and cooperative school, but the association contract should not be used to force this space, under the penalty of being reducing freedom of choice, which is what they say they are promoting, but what they are doing is forcing students, who should have a place in public school, to go to private schools. But we want to go further, Mr President and Mr. Members: a free, democratic, inclusive and quality public school for all; a special education system based on educational needs and not on disability or medical diagnosis; free manuals for all compulsory education; preschool for all; democracy in schools and the end of their entrepreneurship;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u142	It was a party, it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u143	... to end the School Park and assume the public nature of the works; to ensure the entry of psychologists, speech therapists, Portuguese gestal-language interpreters and other educational professionals; a school committed not to plumbar who does not know, but to ensure that no one remains without knowing, to ensure that there are no lead because no one remains unaware.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u144	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u145	I will finish, Mr. President. That, Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa, is not to leave behind. It is not to place students in second-choice teaching drawers, as the previous government did,... [[PCP and PS applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u146	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u147	...is to ensure that, as a lead student, one cannot say that there is one more teacher. What there are are less teachers, there are less resources and it is up to the public school to mobilize all efforts so that, precisely, no one stays behind. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PS MP João Galamba.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u148	For an intervention, Mr. João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u149	Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Education is one of the areas in which this government has more betting and well, with serenity, but with courage and determination. There is a reformist path that cannot be abandoned and that is making the difference and will make the difference in the lives of students and their families. We are aware that there is an ambitious electoral programme to accomplish, but we know that, particularly in education, there is a programme that has to prevail over all others and that has been, and is, deeply disrespected by the right. This programme is the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in recent decades, the country has not made every effort that was within its reach to ensure the freeness of compulsory education and school textbooks are perhaps one of the best examples of how the State delegate to families very significant financial responsibilities for the fulfilment of school courses. Mr. Minister, the CDS recently asked for ideas about the future. In the meantime, he forgot the ideas of the future and buried his head in the past. But it is good to remember that in a few months the government announced the delivery of school textbooks to all students of 1. the year of basic education; which will implement, for the first time, a school manual loan system, provided for in the law 10 years ago; and negotiated with the publishers the freezing of the price of school textbooks in the next school year, as well as the updating of its price, according to inflation in the following school year, investing a trend of growth of the cost of school textbooks negotiated by the right in the previous legislation. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] If to the right this is, as we have heard, an archaic conception of education, well, we want this archaic conception, because it presupposes progress, progress and conquests and because it guarantees futures in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, being the next academic year of all these proposals and certainly a new model to effectively make school textbooks free of charge, I ask you if you can guarantee this House that this effort will be continuous and consistent throughout the entire legislature. We have heard sometimes talk without account and sometimes too much interest in education. But, Mr Minister, for the Socialist Party, the interests that the Government and the Minister have defended are the just interests for which it is worth being in politics. They are the interests of Portuguese, they are the interests of Portuguese, they are the interests of Portugal. Mr Minister, one more debate in the Assembly of the Republic on education, one more debate that the right has lost in this Chamber! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u150	To request clarification, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u151	Mr President, Mr President, there is at least one thing that the Socialist Party recognises and seems to want to do, which are examinations and evaluations. by the visas, it has already evaluated the right and came to the conclusion that this has lost the debate. Mr President, leave it to other entities and other personalities, because this is certainly not for sure your role. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] You know that in democracy there are neither winners nor debaters. A parliament, in democracy, controls the government's activity, demands the government to meet goals and is, above all, in education for students, families and for school, not in favour of demagogy, as you have just done here in your speech. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u152	Mr President, by now I will ask you a few questions. Tell the honourable Member that the right has been lost. He knows that there is a democratic right that, above all, is not ashamed of being democratic right, unlike some left that is not democratic and that is associated, today, with some people who are practicing acts that are seriously damaging the situation of Portuguese schools. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mr President, tell me the following: what is done about the policies for re-use of school textbooks? What has this government been doing on this subject? And it's not the reuse of third-party manuals, it's the reuse of manuals used by your older brothers. What is done about this, Mr? [[PS protests.]] By the way, I will also ask you one thing: what is done about policies and policy measures to contract psychologists for schools? It is that in the previous legislation, each group of schools became at least one psychologist. The Socialist Party always said there were few. What measures are being taken at this time so that there are more psychologists in schools? What are they? How many psychologists are being hired for schools today? [[In the past legislature it was zero!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u153	It wasn't zero! At least one psychologist was hired by school group and, in the current school year, which will end within two months, each school group has at least one psychologist. How many will you have next school year? This is another question. Mr President, by now I would like to ask something about what the Socialist Party is now, of course, going to say it agrees, but it has changed its mind. The Socialist Party, last year, did not agree with the increase in the number of students in classes who had students with special educational needs. [[PS protests.]] This year, it has been announced by the government that this number will increase by next year. Does the Socialist Party agree with this? If you agree, you've changed your mind. But right now, I would like to hear your answer. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u154	Mr. João Torres, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u155	No, Mr. President. [[Don't you answer?Oh, my God!]] [[Don't you answer?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u156	I've never seen such a thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u157	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Bureau does not record any further requests for speech in relation to the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u158	I would like to take the floor, Mr President, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u159	You have the floor, Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group wishes to greet the CDS Parliamentary Group for making an inquiry to the Government on education, because it is an important matter. Unfortunately, the cranberry works worse and, when the CDS tries to pull the themes of the future, the PSD always returns to the same radicalisms as usual. But finally... [[PSD laughter.]] Anyway, and because there are always Members in this House who, when it comes to education, come to talk about other things and realize that they do not realize, I would, with your kindness, make a quote. The quote is as follows: "In the case of education, there is a public network and, due to the reduction in the number of students, what is happening is closing schools, not opening schools, because it is decreasing demand. If there is a public network, why are we going to have to support a private network, if we have a public network, if we have to pay and if we can't stop paying? I can't understand! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This quote is not one of these radicals, of which the PSD members speak so much, is a quote by Dr. Manuela Ferreira Leite, delivered on July 30, 2015 on television. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u161	You don't have your own speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u162	Yell, yell! You don't want to listen, but you'll hear! [[Laughing.]] And Dr. Manuela Ferreira Leite continued: "When we talk about freedom of choice in education and health, in the first three years there must be some grace. at the end of 10 years, there was really a privatization of the health sector and a privatization of the education sector ». And Dr. Manuela Ferreira Leite explained: "Because I am a social-democrat, I cannot accept this program from the PàF coalition." So when we talk about radicalism, we understand. Even in the words of Dr. Manuela Ferreira Leite,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u163	Can't you talk for yourself? Oh, my God! Can you only speak for others? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u164	...the radicals are the gentlemen. And now I would like to tell you this: the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group can only give strong support to the Government when it respects the Constitution, when it complies with the law and when, with respect to contracts, it executes them in accordance with the tenders that gave rise to these contracts. That's because the opposite is illegal, it's illegal, it's to run away from the law, it's to disrespect the law, something that we couldn't afford. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Obviously, there is always a clear sign that when the PSD remained without any argument, it is when they start talking about 2011 and the Memorandum of Understanding. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in education... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It's hard to listen to you, but you'll hear! in education, the former government cut twice as much of what was foreseen in the Memorandum of Understanding. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[That's not true!]] [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u165	You have reviewed the Memorandum of Understanding a dozen times...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u166	Two dozen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u167	... and never did this review in education. More: if there was a point in the Memorandum of Understanding that you never met was what required you to save more in association contracts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u168	It's just bullshit!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u169	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to leave Mrs Ana Rita Bessa a consideration. The honourable Member said: 'quality school. Bridge! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Because we say there's something missing, because it's quality school for everyone! It's quality school for everyone and there we can put a point.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u170	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u171	I will finish, Mr. President. This is because, when Mrs Deputies says 'quality school' and does not say 'quality school for everyone', she realizes that her project is not really an equal opportunity education project. We also think that the doctor's son can be a doctor and that the miner's son can be a miner. Now, what can't happen is the miner's son is doomed to be a miner and the doctor's son condemned to be a doctor. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] That is why the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group supports the vast action of this government in the area of education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u172	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u173	That is why we cannot agree with either radicalism, the extremist excess of the PSD, and the half-words and inability of the CDS to distinguish themselves from the radicalism of its partner from the crab. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u174	Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor, for an intervention, in his available time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Porfirio Silva to speak of Dr Ferreira Leite, you must be born three times! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Now you're shouting! It's not worth it, it doesn't matter! By now, she should have listened more to Dr. Ferreira Leite, when she said in 2009 that the direction her party was giving to the country would lead the country to bankruptcy. But this didn't mean to hear. [[PSD applause.]] And, by the way, on debts in education, Mr. Deputies, there are decorations! The PS talking about debts? Oh, my God! There's a décor! It is because the Memorandum of Understanding had to be revised, because there was budgeting and subordination in health, Mr! [[PSD applause.]] [[It's true!]] [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u176	And now for those who "fill their mouths" with public school and with rigour, Mrs. Members, I say the following: It seems that all the problems of schools began in 2011. It seems that it was Dr. Nuno Crato who, in 2011, solved all the problems. But in 2010 who was the government? What about 2009 and 2008? Who led the country to bankruptcy and forced those cuts that you negotiated? There's a décor! At least be supportive in solving the problems that you have created. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] And now, in the past, that you have talked about so much in this debate, you have to decide. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Do you wish to hear or continue, with your arrogance and prepotence, to interrupt the others? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u177	I'm listening!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u178	I didn't see him so happy when he took the country to bankruptcy! Have a decorum, Mr. Deputies! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mr. President, I will try to continue...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u179	Mr President, please continue, all the more so that you have wasted your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u180	Mr. President, I've been interrupted several times... [[PS protests.]] ... and I ask you the same tolerance you had with the Socialist Party Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u181	Mr President, the Bureau has been silent, noting that the conditions under which the honourable Member has been speaking were not different from those of the previous speaker. I would like to conclude your statement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u182	I'm done now, Mr. President. The gentlemen. PS Members have to decide. The Minister of Social Security came to Parliament and said that there is a demographic problem to justify the present. The Socialist Party looks back and says that there is no demographic problem, that there are no fewer students who force fewer teachers. The Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block sometimes say that 30,000 teachers were fired as 20,000 teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u183	But 20,000!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u184	But then they don't talk. They talk about the 100 that were hired this year, but they forget about the 4,000 of the other years. They have to make a decision about the arguments they use.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u185	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u186	I will now conclude, but I leave two questions first. First of all, Minister, it is if you keep the idea of stapafurdia, because you have no other name, immoral and ethically regrettable, of wanting to impose quotas for sick teachers in schools—I just hope your colleague at the Ministry of Health does not dare do the same. But I hope that this measure will remain in the trunk of this government's nonsense. Mr. Minister, I ask you another question about 35 hours...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u187	Sir, please conclude. I've already made this call several times.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u188	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Mr. Minister, on association contracts, we do not accept the moral lessons of this government. Mr. Minister is the best product in this coalition. He is the most proud product in this coalition. Dir-CL-I'll-he's the best Mário Nogueira student. Congratulations! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it may make sense to appeal to everyone so that the next speeches have better hearing conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u190	Make that call to the PS bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u191	To close the stage of the debate, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, I would like to return to the subject of the timetables raised here, both by the Government and by the PSD, either by Mrs Joana Mortagua, of the Left Block. I recognize that the formula implemented by the previous government needed to be refined. It is true that it did not turn out well to assign more hourly credits to schools that, in absolute terms, had better results. More interesting it would be to correct the formula to assign more hourly credits to schools that have greater added value and progress. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u193	Much different is what has been done by this government. What makes no sense is simply assigning more hours depending on the number of classes a school has. That's equality, it's not equity. How does this mechanism favour schools in unfavourable contexts? Only 25% of the groups of schools with more than 1000 students are in these contexts. And 51% has this prevalence in groups with fewer than 1000 students. This means that 51 % of the groupings that would require these hourly credits do not empty them. It was therefore so easy to do better and, however, this government was able to do even worse. I would also like to leave a final note on the association contracts and the citations that have been brought here. So I'm going to make two citations. The first is a citation by an ex-Minister of the PS, Dr. Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues, who recently wrote in the Public Journal: « The left, who has all the conditions to win the debate about freedom of choice, is at risk of losing, underestimates the importance of improving the quality of public school and gaining the confidence of families, not only in speech, not by decree but above all in action». It seems to me a very helpful advice. Finally, on association contracts, the Minister said that this was a question of a multiple and complex response. It reminded me of the phrase of an American journalist, who said: for the whole complex problem, there is always a simple, clear and wrong solution! Unfortunately, that is what the Minister has done. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Amadeu Soares Albergaria.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u194	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to move to the conclusion of the debate. For an intervention by the Inter-Pelent Party, Mrs Assumption Cristas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u195	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The CDS today intended to bring to this Parliament a debate on education because we regard this matter as the most important and most structural for our collective future. We understand that what we have been observing during this school year is little, it is short, it is often surprising: it leaves students, families, teachers, schools of all sectors — from public school to private and cooperative school — with concerns, anxieties and many concerns. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u196	We understand that it is also necessary in this regard to seek bridges for deep dialogue and for some stability. Perhaps the most important value in education and which has been so mistreated by this government is the value of stability. Students, families, teachers are saturated, are exhausted, are fatigued with so many changes and, sometimes, at such inappropriate times, as we saw at the beginning of the year, with the question of exams, or as we now see with the difficulty of those who have their children in private and cooperative education contracted with the State. These are two examples in the midst of many. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is worth remembering that in 10 years we have lost 110 000 students, for the simple reason that these children were not born, for the simple reason that we have been losing children for decades, for the simple reason that a lot needs to be done for this trend to be reduced. This means that some of the topics we have discussed here today are topics that are not over now and that will follow us in the future, so it is worth stopping a little and reflect on them. I want to tell you that 85% of our students study in state schools. Does this mean we should just look at them? Don't! That means that we should look at all, to 100% of our students. And we should be concerned about having a Ministry paying attention to everything and paying attention, in its policies, to what applies to everyone and to what is certainly specific. in this line, of what is relevant and appropriate to reflect, and looking at a stability that should welcome all the students we have in our teaching system, I would say that there are certainly three domains where we need to base ideas and, I would say, where we need to understand ourselves. Cycles of teaching—I heard Mr Minister say that this is a discussion that is in the academy, but not in the Ministry and politics. Well, I think that this discussion should be in politics. Does the model that we currently have — four years, two years, three years, three years — serve us? I believe that, from the moment that compulsory education has passed to the 12 years, in the time of the previous government, it is necessary to make this assessment and this discussion, which is not academic, is real, is political and must be done here. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Programs — What do we want our students to study? Evaluation — we want an evaluation that does not just target the school. We want an evaluation that helps pull all the students. Evaluation is a way of pulling precisely by those who don't have parents, older brothers, uncles or family members who for them can pull, and therefore have to fully trust what the school can give them. The second very relevant principle, and which has already been mentioned here, is that in our system, no child can stay behind, no child can be wasted, no talent can stay on the way, and that means that, in 12 years of teaching, we have to be able to find the best forms, with diversification, with diversity, but with communicability among all, so that at every moment each student can progress and achieve its maximum potential and constantly overcome it. I don't believe in mediocrity, I believe in the best potential of all. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Third point: the centrality of the teacher. We all know that this is the most relevant factor for the success of students; we all know that a good teacher makes students progress three times more. So, there, we also have to understand each other. How can we recruit the best teachers? How can we give them the best training? How can we ensure that they are motivated? How can we ensure that, when the school population declines — and will continue to decrease, because today there are fewer children being born, although it is already slightly better — those who are the best and not simply those who are because they are and are already accommodated remain in our teaching system? School autonomy — all the most successful models show us that it is this way. Of course something has been done in the past, something will be done, but we need to deepen and know where we want to deepen this autonomy of schools, ensuring differentiated autonomy and educational projects across the network — and starting with the public network — which is also a way to allow better success for all students and better choices for students and their parents.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u198	in this logic, that no one is left behind, the course will begin at the age of three and I urge the Government to comply with what has been said in this matter and that it has been prepared by the previous government. We see working groups, but we don't see results! [[CDS-PP applause.]] And pre-school education from the beginning of the three years, for us, is certainly very important. Finally, because it would be wrong not to touch on this point, I would like to say something to the benches on the left side of this Parliament, which believe that being in public school alone is the guarantor of inclusive and equal schools: they visit a school in central Lisbon and a school in the most fragile areas of the periphery of Lisbon and then tell me if they do not do much more for the social inclusion and understanding of all the many private and cooperative schools with association contracts that are in the most rural areas, which are on the outskirts of the big cities and which cover the entire school population with them. I would like to see this comparison on equal opportunities in public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u199	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u200	I will finish, Mr. President. The Minister of Education has not answered the questions that Mrs Ana Rita Bessa put to you, but I want to tell you that, for us, public resources are certainly relevant.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u201	They are, they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u202	But they speak of 4 % of the Ministry of Education's budget, of EUR 139 million in EUR 5600 million, will tell us something about what has been your focus of distraction. On this subject, I want to say that, for us, the most important thing is the quality of teaching. For us, the most important thing is equal opportunities, the opportunities given to everyone in all schools. For us, the most important thing is, when we have fewer students than the educational offer, to realize whether reason and rational should always lead us to close something in the private and cooperative sector to maintain at all costs the public school, because it, in your perspective, is always better, or if it is to look at the quality of the results, look at the will of students and parents, look at the choices they want to make and the resources they are involved. [[PS protests.]] I challenge Mr Minister to do this exercise in full depth and then we will talk about freedom of choice. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u203	For the closing intervention, Mr Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have heard and spoken in this Parliament about education. on our part, on the part of the team I lead, we talked about educational policies, but we have not yet talked about adult education, which, in summary, will be a work done in conjunction with the Ministry of Labour which has as main goals reaching 50% of the active population for completion of secondary education by 2020 and 300 Qualifica centers, in 2018. What are the main measures? The creation of service and vocational guidance balconies; the strengthening of means available in these centres; the launch of an online tool with all offers and operators that allow research and referral to adequate responses to profiles, needs, resources, degrees of qualification and individual objectives; and the dissemination of distance teaching for adults. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the essence of our policy there is one word: equity. Now, there will never be fairness if compulsory education forces some to a lower destination than others, which allows and encourages. It is up to us to ensure that any child can succeed to which any other child is entitled. It is up to us to make sure that each child is writing and fighting for the destiny that they want as theirs. It is up to us to follow each child and every family on that path, even though there are failures on that path. For this government, the failure of any of our students is a step to which we can contribute. We can never claim condemnation of the failure of only one of our students. Created in 2012, vocational basic education courses are mechanisms of early description and dualization that segregate students in paths that do not guarantee their development and learning and... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... constitute an early and politically unacceptable segregation that does not find a mirror in any European or OECD country ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). Noting the fulfilment of the XXI Constitutional Government Programme, as I have already said, we will gradually extinguish the offer of vocational courses in basic education. This measure will be implemented by ensuring that all students on these routes can complete their paths or transit to other offers existing in the system. We have thus fulfilled the commitment outlined in the Government Programme to reject early dualisation introduced by the PSD Government / CDS-PP. As announced today, it is important to reiterate that we will create an offer of tutoring for students with two or more retentions, so that they can choose, between the portfolio of already existing curriculum offers, by the one who considers the most appropriate to their school success and can find there a flexible and customised management of the class, time and tools to support their learning. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will not do so by inventing any other system but, rather, by valuing the system that exists - it is called an educational system. We don't need another one. Students do not need another system other than the national service of valued education, trusting in themselves and trusting in whom they learn and in whom they teach. If not, what meaning does the Constitution provide for the right to equal education for all citizens? None! Therefore, valuing the national education service is not just a political option among others, it is to comply with the Constitution, which makes sense right now. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the lab. What was the basic vocation? What was the ECB if it did not test students and teachers as a radical test of neoliberal efficiency theories that neither things apply to people? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Lúdico was certainly, Mr. Deputy, imploding on 5 October, as defended by the previous holder. They almost got it! Fortunately, this experimentalism is over, education has survived and is our best weapon. Now, he will recover and he will have peace, as he deserves. [[Upstairs of the PS, standing, the BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u205	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. I will give the floor to Mrs. Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs. Emília Santos, who will report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u206	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions 324 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the repeal of Article 18 ( 3 ). Article 3 ( 2 ) and ( 9 ). the Regulation Order No 1 - H / 2016 of 14 April, which fulfils the multiannual contracts concluded with private and cooperative schools ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 325 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to improve control of plant protection products and promote their sustainable implementation ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-19.u207	Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, 20 May, at 10 a.m., whose agenda will be marked by the discussion of draft resolution No 321 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures promoting the dynamisation and growth of the tourism sector in Portugal ( PSD ), to which Act No 9 / XIII will be followed ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reduce working time for 35 hours per week ( ALRAM ) to which no time is allocated and, finally, there will be scheduled votes. Good afternoon to all. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 40 minutes.]]
