ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to the following legislative initiatives: draft resolutions Nos 312 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the period of travel of the President of the Republic to Germany ( President of the HR ), 313 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Support services of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ( RA President ), 314 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the merger of pet identification databases — SIRA and SICAFE ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission and 315 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of municipal veterinary doctors ( NAPs ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u3	Mrs. Members, the first item on our agenda is the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 229 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to encourage the development of university sport ( PSD ) and 309 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government public policies supporting university sport ( BE ). To present the initiative, Mr Pedro Pimpão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we bring the debate, in this House, a set of recommendations aimed at valuing and promoting university sport in Portugal and we have no doubt that promoting sports activity in higher education is one of the main challenges for the development of sports in Portugal. And why is that? Because most of our young people who participate in sports competitions study in higher education, but also need support and incentives to reconcile their sports performances with their school performance. Today's discussion here in plenary is, of course, a fair tribute to the tens of athletes who, in a few months' time, will represent Portugal in the Olympic Games and whose vast majority try to reconcile their academic life with the high-performance sports practice. It is also an incentive for those thousands of young people who do not reach high income, but who deserve special attention to be able to reconcile their academic life with their sports activities in an intermediate and prior to high income. The truth is that today, the versatility required to higher education in the education of the individual, as a citizen, in being able to overcome the unique dimension of the educational component and also to provide other training valences, makes us assume university sport as a pillar of relevance in the mission of higher education before our country: to train versatile, multidisciplinary and better trained individuals to meet the demands of the labour market. It deserves to highlight the commitment and work that has been done in recent years by the previous Government and by the Academic Federation of University Sports (FADU ) itself, taking advantage of it to greet Mr. President of the Directorate, Daniel Monteiro. As a result of increased financial increases, as a result of increased funding for support programme contracts, in recent years the number of sports practitioners in higher education has increased. In 2011 there were about 8000 athletes enrolled in the competitions, in 2015 the number exceeded 9300 athletes, which contrasted well with the 2007 numbers, which pointed only to 6000 athletes practicing sports at the university. In addition, the political role of FADU in the areas of youth and sport was valued, integrating this Federation into the National Sport Council, including her as a priority partner in the National Sport Programme for All (PNDpT). Support for international missions has also been strengthened and that is why we are going to have the European University Games in Coimbra in 2018 and we recommend that this institutional support be continued because we are talking about the largest multi-sport event ever held in Portugal. in the context of dual careers, a working group was created to analyze the implementation of proposals for the valorization of dual courses and recommendations were made regarding the legislation of the Student-Athleta Statute and now urgent to make it viable and put into practice the work done by these specialists in the field of education and sport. Finally, I would like to say that we support the strengthening of FADU funding and the biannual nature of funding, that school insurance is extended to sports activities, that in the application form for higher education there is a proper field on the sporting habits of each student, because we understand that increasing the qualifications and skills of our young people at the level of higher education is to contribute so that they can face the labour market with more ownership, with more capacity and continue in the sports scene to give great joy to national sports. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u5	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to leave a special compliment to the representatives of the FADU, who are accompanying us today the debate on these draft resolutions. In 2011 the University Stadium of Lisbon was at risk of closing. The urgency of unlocking more than EUR 500 000 by the Government was discussed. It was a petition presented at the time, called « University Stadium cannot close », which gave voice and body to this problem and counted with thousands of signatures. The argumentative text was minimal but sufficient to generate consensus on the need to maintain this important sports structure. at the time, many young people, many university students, many joined around the defense of this infrastructure, proving that civil society is attentive to the problems of sport, particularly of university sport. at the time, as the argumentative text of the petition in question showed, there is today, as I said, a public opinion more concerned with sports activity and health capable of generating consensus in society itself. It is precisely about these consensuses that we speak today, about the consensuss that have not yet generated public policies capable of generating more concern, more infrastructure and more support to those who attend higher education and at the same time practice sports. This progressive concern of civil society with these issues has been echoed in public policies for sport, particularly for university sports, which does not mean that, until the advance of the university network, no other policies are needed to deepen the sector. That is why it is urgent today to plan for real investment in public policies for university sports, which continues to be, for thousands of young students of higher education, the only accessible space to maintain a regular sport practice. So when we talk in university sports, we are talking in social state and public policies for development. in this context, two fields of action are needed: a first related to access, continuation and support that athletes have in higher education and a second related to the physical infrastructure available for sport practice, quality and cost. That is exactly why we propose to the Assembly of the Republic that the Government strengthen the financing of university sports, through a greater allocation of funds for higher education student associations, through applications to IPDJ funds ( Portuguese Institute of Sport and Youth ), and an deepening of the relationship with FADU. We propose that institutional monitoring be carried out given the organisation of the 2018 European University Games in Coimbra, and that the associations of students and other institutions linked to student associations be approached so that these European games have the support and participation of all. Finally, we propose that the Government carry out a survey of the sports equipment and infrastructures of the social action services of the various universities and politicians and programme an intervention plan for the rehabilitation of them. [[Congratulations from BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u7	Mr Ivan Gonçalves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I welcome the presentation of these two initiatives by the Left Block and the PSD on a theme which, for us, is of the greatest importance. I would also like to greet the President of the Academic Federation of University Sports, Daniel Monteiro, who is attending the debate. Today, there is an increasing awareness by Portuguese society about the need for healthier lifestyles, particularly regarding sports practice, which has increased among Portuguese people of all ages, and yet it is. This is also a plan included in the XXI Constitutional Government Programme, which takes as priority the promotion of the generalization of sports practice, not forgetting the guarantee of equal access to sports activities, without social, physical or gender discrimination. Now, we know that many of the young people who are already regularly engaging in sports when they enter higher education intend to continue to do so during this period of their lives and that university sports fulfills exactly that role. We also know that many young people have, through university sports, their main contact with regular sports activity, which they eventually maintain throughout their lives. This is therefore a matter for which, because of its importance and the nobleness of its objective, I believe it is possible to reach some consensus that allows sport practice in higher education to be fostered and extended to more and more students. So we see ourselves in those that are the intentions expressed in the PSD draft resolution, and can not fail to mention that some of the proposed measures are redundant, being implemented. This is the case with the strengthening of the funds available to FADU, the establishment of goals and objectives for the development of sports practice and the establishment of biannual contracts aligned with universities, since all this is already under way. In addition, a programme contract has recently been signed between DGES (Directorate-General for Higher Education) and FADU, which provides for the strengthening of the funds made available, the increase in the number of young university sports practitioners associated with FADU, to 10 000 and the establishment of biannual contracts that will enable the FADU to better manage the means, with a view to Portuguese participation in universities. As for the 2018 European University Games, the Government has therefore publicly expressed total support for this initiative, as well as for all entities involved in its organization, the FADU, the Academic Association of Coimbra, the University of Coimbra and the City Council of Coimbra. Finally, with regard to the issues of the Athlete Student Statute and school insurance, the Government has also given assurances that it will resolve these issues and that it is available to resolve them in the short term. That is to say, we can easily see that most of the initiatives that are planned in these proposals are already, or will, in the short term, be in motion for resolution, even because they are some old demands of university sports agents. In any case, this does not take credit for these proposals, which they deserve and will have all the attention on our part and, I believe, from the Government, because, fortunately, we have a government that cares about the practice of sport in Portugal, more specifically about the practice of university sport. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President. — Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand that sport is a good that everyone should have access to. Its duly oriented practice is a decisive factor in improving the quality of life, which is indispensable for the comprehensive education of young people and promoting the health of all. in recent years, a path of commercialization of sport has been taken in a single orientation of unbridled demand for financial profits at its expense, in a process of brakeing its democratization, promoting, on the other hand, the deepening of social injustice in access to sports practices, especially by the most deprived. What happens is that access to sports or sports practice has been severely limited, only for those who can afford to pay. We understand that sport is a right of all, it is a constitutional right, and it must be valued for its social and cultural function and guaranteed access to its practice, whether in the context of school sport, university sport or other dimensions of sports practice. Defending the university sport and access of students to sports practice is not off the guarantee of the quality of existing sports equipment, the need to intervene in their requalification and improvement of their conditions, as well as an appreciation of early sports practice, namely through the valorization of physical education and the implementation, in the concrete life of schools, of school sports and their access to all students in whom it must be a process of sport development, of gaining youth for the practice of sport and their integral training. We cannot turn away the defense of university sport from the need to ensure that students of higher education are guaranteed conditions for their practice. The university sport has been, most of the time, promoted and developed by student associations. But we also believe that it is the responsibility of the State to develop, promote and value university sports, and to that end it should provide public higher education institutions with infrastructures and instruments that make sport practice possible for all students. Therefore, we must also point out that the chronic underfinancing of higher education has consequences for ensuring the practice of sport, in particular for the degradation of the conditions of sports equipment and infrastructure. In addition to underfinancing, it is also important to refer here to the costs of students and families with the frequency of higher education, which often distance them from the possibility of sports practice. We still want, and we cannot fail to mention, that university sport, whether federated or not, is taken into account and valued. in this sense, it should also be taken into account the status of the student-athlete, particularly in its adequacy to the reality that exists today in the country and in the institutions, helping more and more students can access sport without being harmed in their academic course. It is also important to take into account the different realities that exist: that of the students who practice sports in higher education institutions, that of those who practice sports in clubs that are external to universities, that of the students who are highly competitive athletes and that of the federal and non-federal sports. Each of these realities must correspond and be given the appropriate response that guarantees young people, students the necessary conditions so that they can continue their sport practice. This is a matter that cannot be distanced from the real role of the State in promoting and implementing access to sport and sports practice, as enshrined in the Constitution, this is a fundamental right of the population...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u10	I ask you to conclude. Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u11	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, this is an indispensable right in and for the integral formation of the individual. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u12	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group would first of all like to welcome the authors of the initiatives we are discussing today because of the importance they have and the appeal they make to the Government, which is an appeal in the right direction. The reconciliation between sports practice and university life is one of the ways of recognizing that university life is not exclusively an academic preparation and that it has a much greater amplitude at a decisive stage of individual formation. That is why we understand that Portugal has long since had a deficit in relation to the link between sports practice and school or university level. Even worse: from the point of view of society — from the legislative point of view until there is acceptance of the importance of university sport — it is difficult to achieve, that is, it is difficult for the institutions, the agents, in practice, to perceive the importance of certain legal precepts and to allow their application in all its scope. Indeed, if we compare with other countries, the reality of sport is part of university life, it is not even parallel, it is integral. That is the way we should try to follow. Until then, there are steps that we certainly have to implement and which are stages that each sportsman already lives today and that every university sportsman already has as a challenge today. That is why I would also like to welcome, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, all the associations representing students and sports practitioners, including FADU, for the work they have done with this Parliament to move forward towards this goal which I think is everyone's. Sport is part of a culture of well-being that is fundamental to university life. in this sense, the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP follows the initiatives we are discussing today and expresses its willingness to deepen them, as well as other rules that will certainly benefit from the fact that sport takes a more relevant role in university life in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u14	Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have just seen in this House well reflects the vision of a new generation of Members to the Assembly of the Republic, which I would like to praise, at a political moment when there is so often no consensus, understanding, serious discussions on matters relevant to Portuguese young people, for their ability to make political bridges in matters of particular interest and importance to Portuguese youth. He could not fail to welcome in a special way the leaders of the FADU present here, and his President, for the intensive and intense work they have done over many years in defending the interests of young Portuguese people, particularly young university sportsmen. Mr. President, I just wanted to leave two notes. The first relates to this debate which was based on the presentation of a fundamental strategy for university sport, which goes beyond the mere competition for medals here or there and which passes much more through the conquest or promotion of healthier habits and lifestyles in the academic course to which a young Portuguese must be entitled.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u17	I still leave a note or, if you prefer, Mr. President, one last request...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u18	I will ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u19	Finally, Mr President, I would like to send a request to the young Members who are members of the new parliamentary majority, which is as follows: we have recently had a bad warning of something which, in our view, may not be so correct and that it is the non-integration of the FADU into the working group that the government constituted to think about education and sports policies in higher education. Well, the challenge I am putting to your seats, continuing on this path of political bridge and broad consensus, is that you too, with our support, require the Portuguese Government to integrate the leaders, who are in the galleries, in this working group because their contribution is invaluable for the quality of university sport and education in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u20	Mrs. Members, before we begin the second item on our agenda, I would like to point out the presence, in the Tribunal B, of a delegation of Iran led by Mr Hassan Ghasghavi, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs Consular, Parliamentary and Iranian Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Iran, for whom a greeting from the House was requested. [[PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN, stand up, and BE.]] Mrs. Members, I ask you to create the conditions so that we can move to the second point of our agenda which consists in the discussion of the projects of lein.o 164 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by establishing a legal status of animals ( PS ), 171 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Civil Code recognizing animals as sensitive beings ( PAN), 224 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Legal Statute for Animals in the Civil Code ( PSD ) and 227 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by assigning a legal status to animals ( BE ). Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have the opportunity to return to a topic that will strengthen the consistency of the legal order and, symbolically, take a very important step in the recognition of philosophical, cultural and legal developments regarding the legal status of animals. in the past legislation we had the opportunity to discuss this matter and it is with renewed pleasure that we return to the subject together with more legislative initiatives from more parliamentary groups. Today we discuss not only this PS initiative, but also draft law of the PAN, PSD and the Left Block, which means that effectively the consensus grows around this area of recognition that our civil law should do the same course as other legal orders similar to ours. Germany has been a pioneer in this respect. Austria, Switzerland, and recently in 2015 France joined together with all the countries that have stopped referring the legal status of animals to a status equivalent to that of things. This is precisely the point, the point of consensus, where we understand ourselves, because it is no longer reasonable, as jurists and citizens, we apply to a living conscious being precisely the same legal regime as we apply to a bicycle, a pencil or a glass. This simple amendment—and it is a simple amendment— introduces a new category in the Civil Code, which is appropriate precisely to safeguard the specificity and characteristics that animals should see recognised in our legal order. In addition, some of the specific amendments to the Civil Code on compensation for the destination of pet animals and also the way in which the property of animals should be considered after this amendment follow the main amendment, which is the one which enables the recognition of a differentiated status. however, in everything else, the rules continue to be the same. Above all, regulation continues to be done by the many special legislation that prevails between us on this matter, whether sectoral or special legislation, for the many activities involving animals and which continue to be regulated by these same laws. Other States, the ones I listed, have done exactly the same exercise of change in their civil codes, without this having caused any drama and any change in how, in relation to animals, legislation continued to apply in the agricultural sector, in the areas of breeding, protected species, animals in spectacles, scientific research and health treatment. That is not what we are discussing today. Today, fundamentally, by abusing the words of Martha Nussbaum, who has repeatedly written on this subject, we may not agree at all, but surely agree on one thing: the legal regime of animals must be differentiated from the legal regime of things. Therefore, regardless of the view that we have most connected to animals in rural context or more linked to animals in urban context, more targeted for certain activities in which animals can be involved, more depending on how public authorities are perceived in this debate, at one point we will agree: it is not sustainable to continue to maintain the legal regime of animals subject to exactly the same legal regime of things. And that is what we are proposing today to change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u22	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on 4 October 2015, i.e. on World Animal Day, the NAP elected a Member. From that day on, there was another active voice in Parliament that follows the will of the Portuguese regarding how we care for those who live with us on the planet. Today we can mark the beginning of the process of amending the legal status of animals. It is no less surprising that in the 21st century we are still debating whether or not animals are things. But let me clarify. By consulting a dictionary we can verify that "thing" is defined as any inanimate object. "animal" is already defined as an irrational living being. Despite the definitions being reductive, it is clear that there is an abysmal difference between a lifeless utility and we arrive home and we are received by a dog or observe the interaction between a water and a pot. To qualify in this way a being that lives, breathes, feels emotions, affections, pain, that protects itself from risk situations and that seeks to preserve life, is biologically wrong, but above all ethically incorrect. And, regardless of what the animal is destined for, the truth is that this goal does not condition its sensitive nature. The recognition of its own nature and the dignity of animals, as sensitive living beings, implies the creation of a legal framework adapted to its specificities. Society has evolved in order to recognize certain characteristics to animals and what was considered normal before is not acceptable today. There has been a gradual abandonment of a purely utilitarian and objective view of animals, so there is no alternative to the House of Democracy but to follow the will of the Portuguese. And, specifically with regard to pet animals, we have all made it clear that animals are an extension of our family, live with us in our homes, give us joy and we cry their loss as if one of our loved ones were to be treated, because in fact that is what they are. It was then time to rethink our relationship with animals and create a legal status that dignified them, unequivocally recognizing that these are sensitive beings, subjects of life and that they have as much right to a worthy existence as any of us. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, animals are not things! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u24	To present the legislative initiative of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD considers that the time has come to change the legal status of animals in the Civil Code, dissociating them. We do so because we recognize a very relevant social development, remarkable even in recent years and therefore this long legal tradition that already comes from Roman law at this time should come to an end in Portugal. We do not do it with a frantistist sense; we do it with a fracturing sense; we do not do it with a momentum of change which, eventually, does not have the same rhythm of social evolution. on the contrary, in this and other topics, the PSD recognizes social evolution, recognizes that this reconfiguration already exists in Portuguese society and wants to transport to the legislation and to the Civil Code this transformation that already exists. The PSD has no tradition of making the legislation pilgrimage and fracturing to educate the people and the process must be exactly the opposite. This perception that animals were no longer things was somehow implicit in the amendment that we made to the criminal law and that came into force in October 2014. Therefore, also in obedience to a homogenization of the legal treatment of animals, the PSD presents its proposed amendment to the Civil Code, which will begin to consider animals as sensitive beings. however, to be very clear: the PSD will not accept that these or any subsequent changes will alter, disrupt or affect economic activities, agricultural activities, kinetic activities or other activities arising from traditions deeply rooted in the Portuguese people. I repeat: this proposal is a balanced and balanced proposal, which we consider to meet the social feeling of the Portuguese people. We do not think that it is the task of legislation to be pioneer and fractured and in that the PSD will neither align nor align. [[PSD and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u26	Also to present the legislative initiative of your Party, Mr. José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I quote Charles Darwin : « There are no fundamental differences between man and animals in their mental faculties. Animals, like men, show a sense of pleasure, pain, happiness and suffering». The last decades have been marked by the introduction and development of debates that, not being new, have been secondary in the public discussion. One of the themes that has been most vividly present in the public debate and generated increasingly aggregate social movements is that of the relationship established between human beings and animals and, more specifically, the treatment given by people to animals. in fact, in the European area, as in other parts of the globe, attention has been accentuated by the various public opinions on the issue of animal welfare, and the need for most societies to ensure decent treatment for animals is increasingly well known. In Portugal, the winds also blow in the sense of the current urgency of the dignity of the animals, a circumstance which cannot, in any case, be indifferent to the legislator. The social recognition that it is so has therefore been consolidating among us. And today the Left Block comes to this rostrum saying that a law that considers animals as things is a meaningless law and that, therefore, it is time to put an end to this absurd anachronism. No, animals that have the ability to consciously perceive what surrounds them and to receive and react to stimuli consciously are not things. But we cannot affirm this obvious truth and give it the letter of law. We need to achieve practical legal consequences. Therefore, the bill of the Left Block enshrines a set of people's duties, starting with legal holders for those whom science calls sentient animals. There is certainly no closed list of people's duties for these animals, but there is a general duty to ensure their well-being which unfolds in various concrete duties, such as the guarantee of access to water and food, according to the average needs of the species concerned, the guarantee of medical and veterinary care, where justified, including prophylactic measures, the duty to protect against weather, the duty to protect against predators or, more than anything, I would say, the duty to ensure the full manifestation of the natural behavioural report of the animal concerned. It is time to affirm this primacy of the well-being of the sensitive animals and to have the lucidity of fixing the corresponding duties of the persons in the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u29	It is time to admit that, in the event of a notorious failure to comply with these duties, the competent authorities may seize the animal. Finally, it is time to include the agreement on the legal detention of pets in the legal regime of divorce by mutual agreement and to guide this agreement not only for the interests of each spouse and child, but also, above all, for the welfare of the animal. What the Left Block today brings to this House is the challenge of showing the Portuguese society that is when we together take a step towards more civilization. Milan Kundera wrote: "The true moral test of humanity (the most radical, on such a deep level that escapes from our sight) are the relationships with those who are at our mercy: animals. That is where the greatest deviation of man occurs, the fundamental defeat of which all others take place. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is time for this House to help, as it is itself, the country to transform this ancestral defeat into today's victory and the victory of the future. We will honor-CL with that. [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u30	For an intervention on behalf of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today the legal status of animals, in order to recognize them the ownership of legally protected interests. As an important issue, it is essential, however, to say that this is not the first discussion we are discussing on the issue of animals. In fact, and by the hands of The Greens, the first discussion on the promotion of recognition and respect for animals took place in 1988, when we proposed a bill during the V Legislature to establish the non-human animal protection law. Later, during the X Legislation, we introduced a new bill that intended to establish the prohibition of animals in circuses, which would eventually be rejected by this House. Then, during the XI Legislature, we included in our draft constitutional review, in social rights and duties, more specifically in article 66. the promotion of recognition and respect for animals. But despite the step that it would represent for the defense of animals, its constitutional forecast did not occur, since the constitutional review process had expired. And finally, in the last legislature, the Greens have unanimously approved their legislative initiative guaranteeing a new paradigm of control of the animal population. And today we are discussing the legal status of animals, an important issue which, in fact, must all mobilize. And it must mobilize because it doesn't make any sense that animals are legally reduced to mere things, since we're talking about sensitive living beings. Be sensitive living, which needs to strengthen measures aimed at protecting and safeguarding them in the face of possible acts of violence, cruelty and ill-treatment by both their owners and by third parties. The Greens therefore consider it imperative to give legal status to non-human animals, a status capable of recognizing their differences and nature, both with regard to humans and with regard to things. We all know that the widespread awareness of human responsibilities towards other species susceptible to pain is becoming increasingly evident. And the awareness of this responsibility must have legal expression in this case in the Civil Code. That is what is intended with the proposals under discussion. what is involved is an evolution in the way the law looks at non-human animals. It is an evolution in the Civil Code to abandon the conception that continues to treat animals as things and to assign them a status other than that which today governs what we designate as "things", even if they continue to be the subject of legal relations and the status of things continues, in the light of the proposals, to be the subsidiary regime, provided that it does not contravene other animal protection rules. It is only to say that the Greens accompany the authors of these initiatives in this important fight against respect for animals, which is, at the same time, the affirmation of our dignity as human beings. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the BE, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u32	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issues relating to animal welfare have arisen in an increasingly recurrent way in our society, so Parliament's work eventually follows the evolution of this social reality. The CFP considers that the promotion of concerns about animal welfare, healthy and balanced respect and coexistence between human beings and other animals and the development of measures and actions at the educational and pedagogical level must be the following direction. in this field, much can be done and already in this legislation are to highlight the steps that are being taken, especially in the workplace in the specialty, as regards the end of slaughter of animals in canes and municipal cats, which was based on bill no. 65 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) submitted by the CFP. The inclusion of concerns about animal welfare since 1. the basic education cycle is one of the planned measures that we consider to go in the right direction to create cultural and social conditions that develop a relationship of high respect and harmony between people and non-human animals. In addition, this elevation can only be possible if concrete problems are solved, with a modernisation of the existing official collection centres and the construction of new centres where they are needed in order to ensure the housing and conditioning of animals in conditions of dignity and well-being, as proposed under the PCP bill. The initiatives that come to the discussion today in plenary generally look forward to strengthening the protection of non-human animals and animal welfare. however, there are different approaches and one aspect that should not be underestimated is that some of the proposed changes may even involve the generation of new and more complex problems. The need to deepen the reflection around the definition, scope and realization of concept in the proposals presented is evident, especially with regard to the consideration of the legal concept of animal consciousness and the consequences of it. in fact, there is another point that we have to highlight. The improvement of animal protection laws shall be ineffective if the necessary conditions are not created so that the provisions of those laws are brought into practice and provide for real protection. The Portuguese Communist Party will continue diligently and actively to promote reflection, debate and action in order to improve the protection and well-being of animals that benefit all. Finally, Mr President, saying that the existence of a more just, more equal society in which people see the fundamental rights for human emancipation respected will certainly also be a better society for non-human animals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u34	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to leave the position of the CDS-PP in relation to the various bills that are on the table. I am going to talk about bills that mainly affect the Civil Code and the legal status of animals, leaving for the debate that will follow our position on criminal matters and change criminal laws. With regard to this matter, I wanted to say that obviously it is complex, it is a matter that is not as simple as it seems, until, since we are talking about sensitive or sensitive animals, if we want, the sensitivity of humans, even according to their relationship with animals, it is not always the same, obviously has different opinions and sensibilities. On the other hand, this matter will move into the Civil Code. The Civil Code is the fundamental legal institute of private legal relations and, therefore, to move into the Civil Code implies, logically, some caution and some caution, even for the durability that we want the rules of the Civil Code to have. Finally, the CSD Parliamentary Group has a tradition in this area of respecting the various sensitivities and, in the event of a vote, we would always have the freedom to vote, and I must say that the draft laws that are on the table today correspond, in our view, to a sensitivity that is current and that corresponds to the way we look at animals today in a modern society. The central question is this: before the legal regime of things, should animals have their own, autonomous status or not? Or should they even be considered a third genus within the legal regime? What I would say, on behalf of the CDS, is that it does not shock us, in any way, that animals can be, in terms of the law of things and in terms of the Civil Code, a third genus. We have nothing to oppose this idea and, in this sense, we follow the bills that were presented here today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u36	however, we do not fail to say that we do not always follow the foundation underlying them. I would say, with all sympathy, to Mr PAN, that he should seek, even if in an exposition of motives, to sustain Darwinism as the absolute truth denying 2000 years of religion, so that he can recognise it in the future — and well! — that, for example, in the Catholic religion, quoting John Paul II, we have the recognition of the status and sensitivity of humans in relation to animals - finally, John Paul II, but could have remembered St. Francis of Assisi -, it is something contradictory and I would not have this discussion on Darwinism or the certainty of Darwinism here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u37	Have courage!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u38	What we have to solve here is simpler, makes sense and is somehow recognizing the sensitivity we have to have in relation to animal protection. The same would be said of the bill of the Left Block, especially when trying to explain to us what sensitious animals are. Mr. José Manuel Pureza, the sensitious animals are those who have the ability to consciously understand what surrounds them—I would say that they are all, in my opinion, aren't they? — and react to stimuli consciously. Well, I'd say they're almost all. Most insects react to stimuli consciously.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u39	Mr President, I will ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u40	So, Mr. Deputies, you need to have some caution. We know what is at stake, we understand the concern that is at stake, but we do not admit that these bills serve, as you have said, and well, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim — and then we even get closer to the PSD bill than to the others — to ban hunting, ban livestock or even ban tours. That's not what's at stake. Admitting, as you have said, and well, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim who is not at stake, these bills deserve our support, deserve our follow-up and, in the field of expertise, we will resolve one or another legal doubt that may exist in relation to them. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, the PAN and from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u41	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves once again has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that this afternoon's debate has been particularly constructive and shows that there is a broad consensus zone throughout this Parliament, which allows us to take the fundamental step we want, which is precisely the creation of a specific category that recognizes the specificity, forgive me the redundancy, the reality of the animal world and the way in which the right should view them. Precisely because the right, being a human reality, is created by humans to regulate life in society—still the old maximums that without society there is no right—the fact is that society itself does not exist disconnected from what it involves and what it involves is an ecosystem that has an incontrovertible animal component and that must have a different recognition in law. But also to reassure Mr Telmo Correia — in a way, I think he is calm — of the doubts that potentially infer from his intervention, there is indeed no change in the legal framework applicable beyond the Civil Code. There are amendments to be made in the Civil Code because it moves into a fundamental legal instrument, but they are in fact surgical, and everything else remains regulated by the special and sectoral legislation governing this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u43	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, I will ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u44	I therefore believe that during the specialization work we will certainly be able to take a step forward that will honor the Portuguese Republic in comparison with European and international law. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u45	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I did not want to break the spirit of consensus that still Mr Delgado Alves has discovered here in this House of the Republic. In fact, if we look at the various bills that are under discussion, some of them even contain a similarity that I would say deeply. Only that this similarity, often, is in the words, is not in the spirit or, if they prefer, in the logical sense of things. I come close to what Mr Telmo Correia said and I say, once and for all, that in the PSD bill there is the awareness of a social change, but that it is not accompanied by the spirit that exists, in particular in the various expositions of reasons of other bills presented here, a frantist, fracturing spirit, which is, in our view, completely in the grip of what Portuguese society feels about this matter, and that we will make it feel as well in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u47	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u48	Mr President, this appeal to the Bureau will be dealt with by me with a special favour, because it is my responsibility, the legislative initiative that originated in this matter is the Socialist Party, and therefore, according to Parliamentary practice, it should be the Socialist Party to use the floor for the last time. You have the floor, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u49	Mr President, the question to the Bureau is very telegraphic, precisely to remind us of the need to comply with Parliamentary practice. Now, by abusing a little of Mr. President's patience and tolerance, I think that the parliamentary plage would have saved Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim from ruining the one who was a particularly consensual parliamentary arch, in which, indeed, there was no evidence of any division. The parliamentary plage would have defended Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, because he did not cause any damage to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u50	I apologize to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, but the situation with this explanation has been corrected. We are now discussing point 3 of the agenda, on the sanctions regime applicable to crimes against animals. Thus, we will jointly, in general, appreciate the projects of lein.o 173 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Strengthens the animal sanctions regime ( amends the Penal Code ) ( PAN ), 209 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amended thirty-seventh to the Criminal Code by revising the penal system for pets ( PS ) and 228 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Review the sanctions regime applicable to crimes against animals ( BE ). To present the NAP initiative, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Citizens and Citizens : The dignity of non-human animals, including their right to life and to physical, emotional and behavioral integrity, is an undeniable fact and has come to be recognized across society. The recognition of the nature of animals as sensitive living beings implies the creation of a legal framework adapted to their specificities and, in particular, the need for measures designed to protect them. About 18 months after the approval of Law No 69 / 2014 of 31 August, the 2015 Internal Security Report records 1330 participations for the crime of animal abuse. The number of complaints made is illustrative that there is an increasing consensus on the protection that animals deserve and reinforces the need for more effective measures to safeguard them against ill-treatment and cruel, violent and unjustified acts, of which their death results or not. It is also necessary to give legal protection to abuse animals other than the company's sayings, regardless of the end to which they are intended. Even animals used in livestock farms, which will give rise to food products, must, of course, be legally protected from maltreatment during their life cycle. Certainly none of the Mrs. Members here present or people at home will agree that it is acceptable to mistreat a horse, for example by attacking him or letting him starve. The truth is that this happens daily in our country without the aggressor being subject to any punishment. For the NAP, My Lords, this situation represents clear discrimination and injustice. If it is true that the adoption of the current Law represented a civilizational evolution, one more step must now be taken on a path that we hope to be more empathetic, free of violence and with more respect for all. Let us make this proposal the reflection of the legitimate individual and collective aspirations of the Portuguese. [[Congrats from PS and BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u52	To present the initiative of the Socialist Party, Mrs Rosa Albernz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The approval of Law No 69 / 2014 of 29 August allowed a fundamental step in the protection of pets against ill-treatment and acts of unjustified cruelty. Almost two decades after the adoption of the first legislation aimed at safeguarding animal welfare, the Assembly of the Republic has ensured with this approval the creation of a tool indispensable to the effectiveness of the law: the provision of penalties for non-compliance. however, by 2015, it became clear that the new regime was still insufficient in several areas and that year this House again legislated on the subject, approving a regime of sanctions on crimes approved in the previous year. Today, almost two years have passed since the adoption of the law which has committed the crime of abuse against pet animals, we can benefit from the experience of its application and introduce new improvements to the regime. Indeed, the practice of almost two years of the security forces, judicial magistrates and the Public Ministry, zoophilic associations and citizens engaged in the enforcement of the law has confirmed many of the fears expressed when these diplomas were approved. in this context, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has presented a set of five specific amendments to the rules of the Criminal Code, seeking to respond to the problems that are consensually identified. In many cases, we recovered the formulations that included from our original bills and that were not then approved. On the death of the animal, first of all, it is important to provide that the death of the pet, where it is not based on legitimate veterinary practice or on any cause of justification, and even if caused without inflicting pain, should be considered included in the crime of ill-treatment, ending with some interpretative doubts which have been recorded. On the other hand, there is an increase in penalties in the event of a recurrence, reinforcing the deterrent force of the law. With regard to negligence and attempt, it is essential to ensure a regime of punishment of attempt and neglect as configured in the original version of the bill submitted by the PS Parliamentary Group in 2013. in respect of ancillary penalties, the main innovations are the loss of the animal in favour of the State or other public entity, in cases of conviction for the crime of ill-treatment of pet animals, and the rise of the maximum period of inhibition of detention of animals for 10 years. The reason is the increase in cases of ill-treatment that rose incomprehensiblely. Regarding errant animals, finally, it is clear that the inclusion of errant animals among protected pets is included, making it clear that acts of unjustified violence against animals are not acceptable only because they do not own them. We will continue to be beaten by awareness campaigns in schools, and why not in school books, in the application of the money spent on slaughtering and permits for the castration and treatment of errant animals and company, of people with economic difficulties. With these improvements, and in this long course of two decades, we think we can contribute once again to a clearer, more balanced regime that can offer better protection by criminal means to pets. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u54	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The broad consensus in Portuguese society around the specific nature of sensitive animals—and not, Mr Telmo Correia, an thumb, an ant, ant, a fly, does not consciously react to external stimuli but, rather, automatically as you will know—and the existence of a general duty to protect these animals by the people is accompanied, thus we believe, by another equally broad consensus: Portuguese society does not tolerate the practice of animal abuse. More and more, our society rejects practices of free animal injury. The repudiation of the evils caused by animals is increasingly, in our society, an elementary consideration of civilization and the ethical reprobation of the various concrete faces of barbarity against animals is increasingly profiled among us. It is now time for this Parliament to have the courage to take another step in the law, which takes up the path that has begun two years ago and gives it more strength, in the name of the decency of social life. This happens, in the view of the Left Block, by the punishment of all ill-treatments that injure, anatomically or physiologically, sensitive animals, which seriously and permanently affect the ability to locomotion of the animal or seriously affect its etology. This is also due to the punishment of abandonment which seriously harms the welfare of the animal or the failure to fulfil the duties of guaranteeing adequate medical and veterinary care. This is due, in fact, to the punishment of those who, without legitimate grounds, cause death to a conscious animal, with the exception of the situations in which animal death occurs for the purposes of the food industry or other licensed activities, although we also understand that the protection of such animals must of course be safeguarded. The Left Block includes, with this other bill, therefore, in the field of so many people who fight for a more demanding relationship with animals that show the ability to consciously recognize the reality that surrounds them and respond consciously to the stimuli that are brought to them by this reality. in this more demanding and worthy of serious humanity, it is a very prominent place for the clear and unequivocal repudiation by the practice of barbaric acts of maltreatment. The ill-treatment caused by humans to animals is not proof of the superiority of humanity but rather of a confrontational minority of humanity. As he wrote this major reference to modern European humanism, which was Leonardo da Vinci, «the day will come when the killing of an animal will be considered as a crime as much as the murder of a person ». It is therefore on behalf of more humanity that the Left Block proposes this bill to this Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u56	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion we are now making can be understood as a logical consequence of the discussion we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u58	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u59	We can even say that these discussions are completed. It is that, if the first discussion has referred us to the need to change the legal status of animals, in order to recognize them the ownership of legally protected interests, this discussion refers us to the need to strengthen mechanisms to prevent or safeguard respect for such legal status and respect for animals. It is true — and we have already stated here in the plenary — that, in thesis and as a general principle, the Greens considered that the perpetrators of the crimes, when they practice them, do - irrespective of the penalty, i.e. they do - regardless of the severity of the penalty, of the penalty being greater or lesser. The criminal framework for each type of crime, in our view, has little relevance, weighs little on the decision to practice, or not, the crime. however, in this respect it seems to us that the situation has different contours and can have a very important preventive effect and with a range that cannot be minimized. We therefore follow the aims of the authors of the initiatives proposed to amend the Penal Code, in order to revise the sanctions regime applicable to animal abuse. It is therefore appropriate for us that, recognizing the very nature and dignity of animals, as sensitive living beings, prevention mechanisms should also be strengthened in order to ensure better respect for animals. And this prevention must also be achieved through criminal law. But if it is true that the proposals for strengthening the system of penalties for pet animals do not offer us any reservations, it seems necessary, however, with regard to the other animals, to guard the activities of the rural world, safeguarding the activities duly licensed, which are already subject to demanding national and Community standards as regards animal welfare. This is a concern which has been brought to us by a number of associations, but which, in our view, can certainly be overcome and taken into account, in the discussion of the specialty. In conclusion, I just want to say that, in fact, Law No. 69 / 2014, by criminalizing abuse of pet animals, represented a marked milestone in combating abuse of non-human animals. It also represented the legal expression of collective censorship that is made about animal abuse. And the importance of this diploma is visible at all levels, but it is further enhanced by the high number of participations in the crime of animal abuse, which are contained in the latest Annual Report on Internal Security, for the year 2015. It is a good law, which has responded to a social and civilizational need, but where still some weaknesses are identified, particularly with regard to its application, and which the proposals under discussion today also seek to overcome. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PAN and the BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u60	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by saying that, like the overwhelming majority of Portuguese society, the CDS obviously does not tolerate and reprove conduct that violates animal rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u63	And, obviously, animal welfare is a concern that moves us all here and that cannot leave anyone indifferent. It was also for this reason that at the end of 2014 the CDS, with the PSD, then in the government, criminalized the ill-treatment of pet animals. This majority understood, then, to empower the things of the animals in criminal matters and to create a specific legal type that penalises offensive behaviors of the physical integrity and life of pets. It was intended to do so in relation to pets for a simple reason, which I would like to explain: to safeguard from the standard the use of animals for agricultural, livestock or agro-industrial purposes or commercial shows. For what? To protect important economic activities and traditions and Portuguese uses, which obviously could not be called into question, and at the end of the line also human consumption. And without that it would mean pain, suffering or manoeuvring life of other animals other than pet animals, which are already protected by very tight national and Community rules, precisely to safeguard animal welfare. Having said that, I would like to point out that this option of the current majority is not well understood now, because there are some inaccuracies here that I wanted to make clear. First, contrary to what is read in the bills, the law, already mentioned, which criminalized the ill-treatment of animals, had not yet had time to make its way. One and a half years back on the entry into force of the law, it was not enough time to assess its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u64	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u65	It is necessary to give time for the reforms to assess them and to perceive, with perenniality and serenity, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, what's best for these situations. But what is really needed is to monitor, intervene and act. Good laws may not be so if they do not have adequate supervision. And what is important now is to monitor to see if, yes or no, more and better needs to be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u67	Secondly, contrary to what is read, it is worth proving that it is necessary to review the concept or to aggravate the penalties envisaged. It is not us who say so, the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, for example, also said that, and I quote, «there is no evidence of the need, the fairness or the adequacy of such an increase», in relation to any worsening of penalties and not in relation to all. I repeat, therefore, that we should let the law make its way and evaluate it next. Thirdly, there is one issue that we are actually concerned about: the extension of the concept of animal. We made the criminalization of animal abuse to pet animals and the fact that some bills refer not only to pets can call into question those activities that we spoke about recently, because, despite the exception of agricultural and livestock activities, they are exempt only from death. All the indeterminate concepts of these bills can lead to dubious interpretations and we do not want this to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u68	Madam Member, I'm going to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u69	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. In addition to this lack of evidence, Mrs and Mrs. Members, at times, I am a bit confused with the fact that so many other things are left intact or that you are opposed even to the criminalization of certain other phenomena and are so worried about it, when it is already criminalized and still has to take its way. We need to understand this and explain this dichotomy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u71	Even to finish, Mr President, and with his kindness, I note that the CDS was the first to try to end the savagery of dog fights in 2006. at the time, the PS rejected our initiative, but then he pushed his hand and ended up agreeing with us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u72	What about the tourdas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u73	Mr President, the question of bulldozers is quite different. But I'm not going into this discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u74	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u75	Despite that, 10 after realizing that something had to be done, we went to revisit the norm and we further conceded the penalty of this savagery. So, give yourself time, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to see if we need to or will not do anything else. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u76	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We would like to greet the members of the Committee on the Environment yesterday who voted in special favour of the replacement text on the draft law of the CFP and the Citizens' Legislative Initiative, which aims to ban the slaughter of animals in dogs as a form of control of the population. This is a measure that seems extremely important to us — it is a fact and worth more than 1000 words that we can say today in this debate — and it is a concrete measure with a great impact on animal protection. [[PCP and PS Deputy Rosa Maria Albernaz applauded.]] Mr President, we are not here discussing the criminalization of animal abuse, as this happened in August 2014. We are discussing this for the third time in less than two years. Of course, we welcome the generosity with which the initiatives that aim to change criminal laws are presented, generosity, indeed, that we share. But it would seem to us that, when a frequent amendment of criminal laws is proposed, this should be done on the basis of the balance sheet of the effectiveness of the previous law. in this case, or this balance sheet does not exist—and then it is good that it is done—or, then, it means that the law has proved ineffective and that criminalization, as it is done, has proved ineffective. We called attention to the possible ineffectiveness of the criminalization measures adopted here in the summer of 2014. What we have found is that the initiatives presented here are based on a number of things, but they are all based primarily on increased penalties. However, the increase in penalties as a way to ensure effectiveness in criminal law is a recipe to which the right usually resorts, with our criticism. This time, it's not the case. But we maintain criticism, that is, what we believe is not effective with regard to crimes committed against people, nor do we think it can be effective with regard to crimes committed against animals. That is to say, the question is not primarily because of the successive increase in penalties, but because we take measures, in particular, of a preventive nature that prevents crimes committed against animals and which we are all outraged by.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u79	Even the Supreme Council of the Magistracy has sent us an opinion, which we think should be seen with all due care—is a very careful and careful opinion on this matter—which says that double penalties are lifted without, however, proof of the need for justice or the adequacy of such an increase. We therefore believe that, on this issue of successive increases in sentences, we will never stop again. We are being confronted successively with the inefficiencies of criminal law and we are going to increase penalties successively. And in fact, that should not be the way. On the other hand, the Superior Council of the Magistrate also draws attention to a concept of pet which is excessively extended and which manifestly extravagants what is consensually admitted in the current law itself as a pet. As the Supreme Council of the Magistracy itself refers in its opinion, this extension of concepts will also lead to some proposed changes, as drafted, which may in practice lead to greater problems than those they seek to respond to. So this must be all very well thought-out.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u80	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u81	I will finish, Mr. President. In view of this, I quote what was said in 2014 by my comrade Miguel Tiago on behalf of the CFP : « The focus should be placed on prevention and not on a punitive response, measures and actions, on the educational and pedagogical level, to promote concerns about animal welfare, respect and harmonious coexistence between human beings and other animals of nature, but also investment in administrative, health and inspection means that put the State as a promoter of animal welfare and not as merely a repressor of violence on pet animals ». Mr President, this is what we want to reiterate here at the moment. [[PCP and PS Deputy Rosa Maria Albernaz applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u82	For one last speech on this point, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as we saw in the last two speeches of the CDS-PP and the CFP, consensus was only apparent and we have to say what we think about this. The PSD has made a real leap with the transformation of the Civil Code, the point we discussed earlier. Therefore, we take this evolution and assume it in its fullness. As I said in my previous speech, we will not deal with extremism, with step by step tactics, in which, under the cover of apparent consensus, if they want to achieve political objectives, absolutely explicit objectives of changing the life logic of the citizens and, with that, it is necessary to say it and underline it here — to take the very serious risk of affecting economic, agricultural, synergetic and other activities with this criminal law. As has already been said here, we have a criminal law that entered into force in October 2014. If there is legislative matter that needs stability, which needs the judicial tarimba, which needs judicial treatment that is often done over years and years is exactly the area of criminal law, and this has not happened. This law has not yet had time to grow, to circulate in courts, doctrine and jurisprudence, so that we can understand exactly what it should be corrected or that it should be added to it. As Mrs Deputy of the CDS-PP said, this law still has to go down a path that has not gone through. And we in the PSD Parliamentary Group reject these amendments, which we consider to be inopportunistic, that we judge extremists, that they have a hidden agenda. In fact, it is not so hidden in some bills that I find truly irresponsible, such as that of the NAP, which simply ends with separation, which has cost so much to do in the criminal law still in force, of the concept of pets, extending the criminal concept to animals in general, which is an effective danger to a set of synergetic, agricultural and other activities, and which the PSD refuses. Also this logic of the step by step, which I have already stated, is clear in the Socialist Party bill, in which, in fact, in the exhibition of motives it is written that this is the first step. If this is the first step, then we will see what steps will be taken, because the agenda seems to be starting to appear under the veil. To conclude, Mr President, once and for all, let us let the law in force, which is a perfectly compatible law with what has been done most recently in the legal world, with which we like to compare ourselves, make its way, be experienced, be treated by doctrine and jurisprudence and then, in the right time, we will see effectively what its shortcomings are. at this time, accepting this change to criminal law is premature, irresponsible and extremist. The PSD Parliamentary Group will not be on this side. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u84	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u85	Ask the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u86	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u87	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u88	Mr President, it is only to request that the initial page of the Diárioda Assembly of the Republic, of 6 December 2008, of the X Legislature, when legislation on the criminalization of dog fights was discussed and voted on, and in which it was evident that, despite the Socialist Party's parliamentary group's voting against the CDS initiative, on the same day a proposal for legislative authorisation was discussed and voted on favourably by the PS, with the Government joining this legislative procedure the bill intended to be authorised.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u89	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u90	This was only to demonstrate that the PS position was not in principle but only in terms of the solutions actually presented. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u91	Mr President, if you send it to the Bureau, it will be distributed. Mrs. Members, let us move to the fourth point of our agenda, in which we will jointly appreciate draft resolutions Nos 228 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of structured support for informal caregivers as well as the creation of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver ( CDS-PP ), 235 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the regulation of the profession of gerontologist ( BE ), 304 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — by strengthening support for informal caregivers ( PCP ), 306 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver ( PS ), 308 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to support informal caregivers and approve their status ( PSD ), 310 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Creates the Statute of the Informal Caregiver ( BE ) and 311 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Strengthening the number of public beds in the National Network of Integrated Continued Care and the National Network of Palliative Care (BE). To open the debate and present the initiative of your party, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme of support for informal caregivers we are discussing today is a topic that truly touches thousands of Portuguese families and is therefore of paramount importance. We intend to help improve the quality of life and promote the dignity of thousands of Portuguese, and that is not a small thing. Unfortunately, this issue has not merited the media attention that has been generated around other matters already discussed today, but this does not make it a minor issue, on the contrary. The CDS is proud to place this topic of support for informal caregivers on the political agenda and also welcomes the fact that other parties have presented their high-quality proposals — let me mention — in this matter. For us, CDS, support for families at all stages of the life cycle is relevant and concerns about the new sociodemographic challenges, from birth to aging, from chronic and terminal disease to disability and mental illness deserve greater political attention. We all know that the increase in longevity was one of the great achievements of the 20th century, but this fact also associated the increase in the prevalence of chronic diseases that constitute today, a real challenge, first, for themselves, then for their families and for health systems. There are thousands of people of all ages and conditions who live in Portugal with cancer, dementia, organ failure, diabetes, with multiple diseases, are real heroes of the daily life. And it is thousands who support them in their homes in situations of greater dependence and which can be extended for months or years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u93	Some of the facts are incontrovertible, and they deserve to be highlighted here. According to the OECD, around 70% of support for dependents takes place at home and is provided by caregivers in a non-remunerated way, in an activity of unquestionable social merit. Most Portuguese families prefer to take care of their family members at home if they are given the right conditions, but more than 60% of Portuguese people have died in the hospital and have also increased the number of chronic patients hospitalized in our hospitals, including cancers, dementias and sequelae of stroke (brain stroke). It is known that the percentage of elderly people has been increasing in our country and that in several municipalities, particularly in the interior, is already above 25 %, a reality associated with the decline in younger populations. It is also known, and cannot be denied, that there has been much progress in recent years in supporting chronic and dependent patients with increased continuous and palliative care structures, but that needs require further development. Conscious of what it means to care for a sick person, 24 hours over 24 hours, knowing that these are the first caregivers responsible for the health of their family members or friends, in a contribution that can amount to up to 80% of the total amount of care these people lack, we want, first, to pay tribute to the caregivers and then to promote a set of measures that I refrain from listing. however, I draw attention to the following: it is essential to promote the extended discussion and the creation of the status of informal caregivers. It is essential that labour situations be flexible and that tax incentives be created for dependents. It is essential to strengthen measures around the consolidation of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care and palliative care network. We understand that today begins a fundamental process to improve the quality of life of thousands of people in our country and that this makes all the difference in society as a whole. May there be a broad consensus here! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u94	To present the legislative initiatives of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, more than 90 % of the population aged 65 or older does not have access to continued care. I'm not saying it, it's not the Left Block that says it, it's the Health Regulatory Entity in a study you did at the end of last year. The population in Portugal is aging, we know that with aging there are associated health problems, such as chronic diseases and dementias, which need their own and permanent health care and, despite all this, 90% of this population does not have access to the continuing care they need. There are causes for this reality and, at the same time, this reality has consequences. Let's go to the causes. The Health Regulatory Entity, in the same study that I mentioned, still assigns two causes for this very low territorial coverage of continued care. First: lack of qualified professionals working in the area. Second, lack of beds available in the national network of continuous care and in the national network of palliative care. We present two projects that meet these two needs and which intervene in these two causes to solve them. in the first project we propose the regulation and the dignity of the profession of gerontologist, as an activity to intervene in the social area of support also to the National Network of Continuous Integrated Care. It is essential that these professionals exist, that these professionals be regulated, that their competences be properly enshrined in legislation and that this will increase and improve the health care provided to those in need. in the second project, it is proposed to increase the number of beds in national networks of continuous care and palliative care. Portugal has a deficit of about 8,000 on these networks and it is possible to increase, using the public capacity already installed in public units. There are old health centers already with public investment and fully adapted to function as continuing care units that are about to open. There are wings in several hospitals, in this country, with vacant beds, to be occupied, which can feed the networks of continuous care and palliative care. It is necessary to protocol with the ARS (regional health administration) with the hospitals, with the public health services units to increase beds. Let's go to the consequences. The fact that Portugal has few beds, few professionals and little territorial coverage makes Portugal the country of Europe where there is a lower rate of non-home care, throwing on families the responsibility of caring for their sick relatives and harming their own families because they are not supported. Therefore, families are impaired at work and at reform because they often need to leave work and career to take care of their sick relative, they are impaired in the quality of life because the quality of life of informal caregivers is manifestly inferior to the quality of life of those who are not informal caregivers and are also impaired in health expenses, which are added. Therefore, the Left Block — and with this end — presents a third project to solve this problem, which is to develop and establish the status of the informal caregiver and which points in the following directions: to ensure the regular and permanent support of primary health care to the informal caregiver and the patient in charge;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u96	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u97	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, it proposes that the status of the informal caregiver be pointed out in order to ensure: the regular and permanent support of primary health care to the informal caregiver and the patient in charge; that the informal caregiver has the right to psychosocial support; the rest of the informal caregiver; the right to flexible hours to reduce the working time of the informal caregiver; and to provide for a prolonged medical discharge for those who care for patients signaled by the National Network of Continued Care or the national network of palliative care. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u98	To present the initiative of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group today brings up an initiative which essentially aims to strengthen the support provided to informal caregivers. in our country and, according to the various researchers, I quote: "in recent decades the Health Services have tried to co-responsibility of families, or informal caregivers, in providing care to chronic patients, (...)", end of quote. If it is true that more and more informal caregivers are called upon to care for patients, it is equally true that those who have the function of caring for patients have many needs; hence, the need to obtain information and training on care to be provided. Therefore, in the project under discussion, we propose that we encourage the dynamization of training, counseling and training sessions, actions that should be developed by health professionals of the various levels of care: primary, hospital and continuing. The needs of informal caregivers also stem from emotional and psychological wear associated with the provision of care. in this sense, we propose to ensure that, through primary health care, psychosocial support is provided and that beds are available that allow the dependent person to be accommodated to enable the rest of the caregiver. The burden on informal caregivers is not limited to the lack of time, emotional overload, there is also a large socio-economic burden that stems from, as has been attested by studies carried out in Portugal, the fact that, and I quote, "The caregivers usually have a lot of problems in reconciling the care of the family to work outside the home, and many of them have to leave or reduce working hours". This situation obviously affects family income. In Portugal, cash support is provided. However, the amounts are excused, and we therefore propose that this initiative eliminate the condition of resources for the purpose of allocating social allowances, as provided for in Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April, and indexing its limit to 100 % of the value of the IAS. We also propose that the conditions of access and the amounts of social benefits made available to informal caregivers should be extended, in fact, also limited to the needs of these caregivers. Because there are situations in which it is possible and, even desirable, that the informal caregiver may continue to exercise his professional activity, we propose that the employer's obligation be promoted to adjust the working time and the functions to perform to the specific characteristics of the informal caregiver. Because, for the PCP, there will be no real reinforcement in the training, supervision and follow-up of informal caregivers of dependent patients, whether he is elderly, whether he is an oncological patient, whether he is a child, or a patient with a chronic disease, if there is no reinforcement of the SNS. Therefore, we propose that community care units be strengthened, crucial units to support the dependent and the caregiver, and this strengthening must invariably pass through the strengthening of human, material and technical means. Because the CFP considers that it is not enough to recognize the essential role of informal caregivers, it is not enough to say that they need to have a status, it is imperative that concrete measures be taken to support these informal caregivers. The measures that we present and that we believe correspond to the needs of informal caregivers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u100	To present the Socialist Party's initiative, Mr Luís Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is up to me to present the Socialist Party's proposal to recommend to the Government the creation of the statute for informal caregivers. And I could no longer agree with Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, when she says that this matter, when compared to others, is in fact not mediated. And I think that is also the role of the honourable Members, which is basically to explain what we are discussing here. So the question and the answer I leave is: who are the informal caregivers? Informal caregivers are mothers and parents who 24 hours over 24 hours take care of dependent children, are daughters and children who 24 hours over 24 hours take care of dependent parents, are husbands who care for wives and wives who care for dependent husbands, are neighbors who care for dependent friends. And taking care of, in these circumstances, means feeding, dressing, monitoring, monitoring, medication, managing home and home finances. Care means, in most cases, abdicating your own life. Abdicating employment, abdicating what remains of family life, because the dependence of those who care involves all the time of the caregiver. Now, caregivers are for these reasons in permanent overburden not only economic but mainly physical and psychical, which also puts them in a situation of vulnerability, in the face of the emergence of diseases. Cases of exhaustion, depression and mental health degradation are described. The Government has committed itself in its Programme to recognize and support informal caregivers who support dependent people in their homes. Never in the past — underlining the most recent past — has priority been given to government intervention in the area of care for dependent people, contrary to what is happening today. In six months of governance, the presentation of the development plan of the integrated care network is highlighted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in it it is possible to verify that the government intends to improve the role and well-being of informal and family caregivers, help caregivers combine family responsibilities with paid work, improve the physical and mental well-being of informal and family caregivers and compensate and recognize informal and family caregivers. These are the principles and objectives that the Socialist Party's initiative contains and, in a generic way, it is important to say here that the various initiatives, presented here today by the various parties, are consensual about the need, through the status of the informal caregiver, to establish a set of rights and duties that protect the caregiver, because, by protecting the caregivers, we are also protecting those who need them. All parties that meet the Socialist Party's Government Programme and the proposals already presented in the Integrated Care Network Development Plan and the National Reform Programme are therefore welcomed without exception. But in addition to informal caregivers, it is absolutely crucial that the complementary role of the State directly or through the social and private sector in the area of continued care provided in the home or outpatient clinic, as well as the strengthening of the National Network of Continued Care integrated into all types of intervention, which are also included in the Programme presented by the Government and which is also the subject of initiative of the Left Block. With regard to the regulation of the profession of gerontologist, it is important here to emphasize that what is concerned is, on the one hand, the individual interest in creating rules of access to the profession and on the other hand, and not less important, is the public interest, insofar as they are professionals linked to the health area, where health is a superior public interest. For these reasons, we can only agree on the recommendation to regulate matters relating to the need to define a non-overcharged competence profile with other already regulated and existing professions. As we also deserve to agree with all the recommendations that recognize and support informal caregivers, who support dependent people in their homes in the area of strengthening the National Network of Continued Care Integrated in all types. Finally, these proposals are contained in the Government Programme and the National Network of Integrated Continued Care Development Plan, which naturally preserves the issues reserved with social consultation and those resulting in financial implications for which the government is responsible. I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we welcome the position of the parties, but we also welcome the position of the Government in the face of the parliamentary work that has been discussed today. The position of the government is welcomed because it has already demonstrated availability for the development of a joint work, giving immediate priority to the training of caregivers and studying, in the short term, together, the dimensions involved, other partners. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u102	To present the initiative of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Laura Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is one of the European countries where the proportion of older people is higher than the other age groups. Several studies indicate that our country has unsatisfactory values in access to institutional care and home care provided by formal caregivers. however, there is a high rate of home care provided by informal caregivers to children and adults with disabilities, disabilities or vulnerable, as a result of aging. To these, science shows that they are more likely to report episodes of greater stress, depression and emotional wear. It is imperative to understand scrupulously the challenges faced by informal caregivers and the need of the State to better support and protect them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u105	If, on the one hand, this circumstance calls on the State to make a greater commitment to the extension of continuous and palliative care networks, on the other hand, it justifies and requires the strengthening of measures to support this population. With regard to the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, no one can deny that the previous Government made a big commitment to its enlargement. The current Minister of Health himself recognised him as the Commission. There was also a reinforcement in the contractualization of household support teams, strengthening proximity care. The health line itself 24 Senior has been accompanied by more than 20 000 elderly people, but unfortunately it is no longer working, due to a decision of suspension that is not understood by the current government. We also do not forget the IPSS (Special Institutions of Social Solidarity) and the Holy Houses of Mercy, which are also an expressive example of social solidarity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u107	...that only the ideological blindness of some may deny. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u108	Therefore, we believe that it is time for the State to recognize the decisive role of informal caregivers. It is urgent to respond to this solidarity and silent involvement of families and other caregivers who voluntarily give themselves to the care of the other. If anyone considers that there is no good for voluntary work, which understands until the « voluntary work is bullshit » ( and I have just mentioned a Member of the Left Block ),...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u109	Read everything! Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u110	... others have to do it altruistically, only for the sole purpose of helping.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u112	We recognize the need to approve the status of informal caregivers and the forms of articulation and involvement of State structures, IPSS, Mercy and associations of chronic and representative patients with disabilities. We understand that there is a need to evaluate this model of solidarity, in order to provide direct support to informal caregivers, because we believe that, when adequate safety and quality conditions are met, the continuity of the integration of the person cared for in his natural environment, translates into fruitful results for himself, for the family and for the whole paradigm of the social system. It is necessary to create solutions that go beyond licenses and failures; to create responses, at the heart of social consultation, that allow for the adaptation or reduction of working hours and to stimulate the use of telework, in respect of the rights and duties of employers and workers. To analyze the possibility of deductions within IRS, recognizing fiscally the social value of these informal caregivers. We recognize its invaluable social role, and therefore we propose that the Government take measures to support informal caregivers and approve their status. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u113	Mrs. Members, having no further inscriptions to this point, we move to the next item on the agenda of the general appraisal of the projects of lein. 229 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends and partially repeals Decree-Law No 154 / 2013 of 5 November establishing the system for monitoring investment projects, eliminating the figure of projects of potential national interest ( PIN) ( The Greens) and 223 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — prohibits the use of the territory included in the RN and RN to real estate projects of potential national interest projects ( PINs ) which do not meet the criteria and purposes of their classification ( CFPs ). To present the Green Party's initiative, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens have come to propose to the Assembly of the Republic, so we call it the withdrawal of the PIN system, i.e. projects of potential national interest. The Greens want investment in Portugal. Portugal has an investment base, of course, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is crucial that we realize what kind of investment we want and if we want an investment at all costs. Now, as we all know, the PINs are headed for megalo-Roman investments. It is the investment paradigm PIN, the small investment is furnished by this agility of procedures. The small investment, which is just precious to create jobs and which is normally more friendly to the environment and territory, is out of the system. If the problem is bureaucracy, as it is argued for the PIN system, then what the Greens say is: it is deburocratized for all those who want to invest and who, of course, comply with the environmental standards, in particular, that they have to comply with. If you want investment, agile for everyone. It may be that the PIN system does not aim to expedite administrative procedures, but those who think it is because this system aims to favour some investors. For this, then, we need to realize, in practice, what has been this thing of the PINs since 2005, the year in which they were created, until 2016. From then on, it has been an instrument to disinduce certain classified areas, namely REN (National Ecological Reserve ) and RAN ( National Agricultural Reserve) to build Nature Network and protected areas. On the other hand, through this system, some highly harmful projects have been carried out for ecosystems, and we already in this legislature have talked about some companies that have contributed, particularly in the area of cellulose, to pollute the Tejo and we have said it is essential to act on these companies, which do not have decent environmental plans to safeguard the ecosystem of this international river. We are talking about PIN, we are talking about projects that are highly harmful to the environment and discriminatory even from a social point of view, such as the Troy Resort, with the elitization of tourism, the destruction of dunes and the waterproofing of a vast area of the Troy peninsula for luxury and housing tourism. Repeat : project of potential national interest! On the other hand, we are also talking about some projects that have not shown economic viability. on the coast of Alentejan was a world of them, particularly in Grândola, tourist projects that together meant anything like 100 000 beds, with one or two golf courses per enterprise. How did territory and sustainability and development cope with this? Not beyond the economic difficulties these companies felt, they would have not stopped building, leaving, however, a very serious environmental liability. Another example is in Óbides ; in the Good Success is being dismantled a vast area, curiously a vast area that is fundamental to the protection of dunes. For what? For the construction of a supposed tourist undertaking, a PIN of a company, see, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you're insolvent. It was a five-star resort, with a golf course, a water system that re-used the water of the ventures...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u115	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u116	I'm done now, Mr. President. In other words, it was an investment that would go to EUR 200 million. What is being built is a golf course, EUR 19 million, value below, therefore, what is required, in terms of assumption, the PINs, the EUR 25 million. You're seeing how things turn around, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? They are absurd favours which have meant a significant and serious destruction of attacks, with strong impacts, at the level of the territory, of the soil, of the environment and often without creating the job that they say they will create and without even reaching the investment that they say they will do. If we want to be serious in terms of productive investment in the country, in terms of development with investment in the country, we have to end the PINs and we have to find a formula of agility for all, small and large, but with great respect for the populations, the environment and the territory. Mr President, I would like to thank you for your tolerance and apologize for your slippage.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u117	You're sorry, Your Honor. In presenting the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been mentioned, the concrete situation in Portugal is that important parcels of the territory have been withdrawn, subtracted from the National Ecological Reserve and the National Agricultural Reserve, through the invocation of the national interest that is underlying certain projects. Now, we cannot accept that there is in our country a kind of environmental offshore or some kind of offshore of the territory, ensuring a kind of green route for certain projects that can still have a very unfavorable and very different outcome from what is promised and announced. A few months ago, according to the information coming to the public, about 30 % of the promoters in this type of projects, including special revitalization projects, went into insolvency or had to deliver the assets to venture capital funds or to the bank. The Standing Committee on Investor Support ( CPAI ), within this type of projects, PIN, which is coordinated by AICEP ( Agency for Investment and Foreign Trade in Portugal ), said a few months ago in October, not knowing what happened to projects after the administrative follow-up and that most tourist and real estate PINs were stopped only 8 in 51, had been realized to date. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] We believe that what happened... [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] This is October news, sirs. Members, it is the result of the governance of PSD / CDS-PP... [[Representatives of PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] The gentlemen. PSD and CDS-PP members are laughing, but this is the result of your governance, because this is October 2015. [[Protests from the CDS-PP Deputies Cecilia Meireles and Hélder Amaral.]] In October 2015 the result of the governance that had been made was in sight. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] When, in the legislation applicable to PINs, no penalties are provided for in order to ensure full compliance with the commitments declared in the applications submitted and to justify their classification as a « project of potential national interest », we find that this situation implies a response. from the PCP side, like the Mrs. Members certainly know the reservations and the issues we are presenting today are the same as we have been presenting since the beginning of this discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u119	That's why they keep coherence! The rest of us...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u120	Therefore, in the same way that the CFP presents a contribution to this response, which must necessarily be found in the legislative part, as regards the end of the privileged situations, in relation to the gains, or as to situations of non-compliance that then occur on the ground, in relation to the conditions that gave rise to the acceptance of these projects itself, the CFP presents to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen and the Assembly of the Republic a proposal which aims to contribute precisely to ensuring that this situation, which occurs in our country and which requires effective correction, has, at the level of the Assembly of the Republic and national legislation, a response that addresses the specific problems occurring on the ground. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u121	For an intervention, Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in fact, the purpose of these two legislative initiatives, of the Green Party and of the Portuguese Communist Party, could also correspond to an effort of the Socialist Party, in order to further restrict the rules that allow, sometimes and not rarely, abuses in areas of REN and RN and to restrict more values which are often acquired in an unjustifiable and unjustifiable way. But for the Socialist Party, it is also absolutely imperative to guarantee foreign direct investment and a channel of promotion of this investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u123	For us too!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u124	in the Socialist Party they will always find a partner to make these restrictions, which are admissible both in the legal regime of the RN and in the legal regime of the RN. in the PS you will always find a partner to limit unjustified enrichments, at the level of capital gains, in the respective codes, either from the IRS or IRC. However, we cannot ignore what the PINs have brought to Portugal. Let's see : from a set of 93 PINs, in the 59 concluded so far we have managed to run for the Country EUR 9737 million — I repeat, EUR 9737 million — we have achieved the creation of 19 531 jobs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u125	More than 50,000.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u126	...and 22 sectors covered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u127	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u128	Compared to zero...!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u129	The aim is that those who are under consideration may amount to EUR 6855 million of investment, 35 000 jobs and 12 sectors involved. in fact, we can't confuse wheat with juicy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u130	It's Freeport!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u131	In some ways we must promote foreign direct investment, an investment that brings wealth to the country, which creates jobs, and also national investment, obviously. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] But we cannot ignore what is your purpose, what means the true meaning of your purpose, and will have in us a partner to review, if necessary, the REN regime, the RNA regime and the gains contained in the IRS and IRC codes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u132	Mr António Costa Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u133	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a quote: « The PINs are the spirit of the Freeport made law! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Do you remember who said this? It was Augustinho Lopes, PCP, in 2012.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u134	Exactly! You see how he even has a good memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u135	Mr. João Oliveira remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u136	It's true, it's true! The PINs, where they are not used, do not serve the country or the regions where they want to be carried out. I recall an example of strong propaganda around the PINs, in this case the one of Alqueva. The review of the Alqueva and Pedrogão Albueiras Management Plan ( POAAP), approved in August 2006, provided for the installation of a dozen tourist projects. This decision intended ‘to support the protection of environmental values with the regional tourist valleys’, on the basis of ‘a model of occupation’ suitable for a new reality. », it was then said in 2006 — do you remember who said it? — « The changes made possible the installation of 12 tourist units with the capacity to receive, as a whole, more than 16 thousand beds. (...) which include a total investment of EUR 1, EUR 8 billion. Do not keep on seeking. ” It's this kind of propaganda euphoria that we don't line up. This is not our understanding of what we want for the PINs. But, all these years, only the PIN of José Roquette's Parque Alqueva resort began the construction of the first phase of the venture, with an investment of EUR 80 million. We remember the pump and the circumstance in which this great project was presented: he had the right to the Prime Minister, to many rulers, to many politicians and to many authorships of different colors to applaud cheerfully. What happened? Lots of concrete were spent in hundreds of hectares. It's a ghost in the landscape, an environmental disaster. That is what we should be worried about and we should be discussing. With this, yes! For the PSD, the PIN Recognition and Monitoring System makes sense only if it is aimed at the realization of various types of investment projects, provided they ensure closer follow-up, to promote the overcoming of administrative lockdowns and to ensure a prompt response, without prejudice to the legal devices necessary to safeguard the public interest. That's all it makes sense. Is this what the CFP and the Greens are talking about? Is this what is in the initiatives of the CFP and the Greens? Better yet: is this what the Socialist Party Government wants? I don't know! I'd like to hear the answer! We will be realistic and contextualize the PCP initiative. The minimum requirement for the approval of a PIN is EUR 25 million for the creation of at least 100 jobs, or an investment of more than EUR 200 million, or 60 million for special situations, to be admitted as a PIN +, and thus benefit, throughout the process, from unburocratization and tax incentives.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u137	That's not what the PCP says!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u138	They usually have the designation of anchor projects, and we even think they attract micro and small companies. I ask the proponents of the initiative, to finish, but also the support Government, whether investment projects with this dimension exist in portfolio. Of 25, 60, 200 million euros?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u139	200 that turn into 19!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u140	Look at the silence! [[Protests of PCP Members.]] Where's the answer? Zero! How many PINs are in wallet today? Answer me! What are we talking about? Better: than we're not talking. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] You're running away from the investors. You didn't know? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u141	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u142	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. It is precisely these delightful moments of your partnership that we appreciate in the Assembly of the Republic and in the Country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u143	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Bruno Dias, in fact, I was smiling because I think in politics everything is not worth everything, and coherence and political honesty make sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u145	Congratulations! You found that out today!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u146	You will have to say once and for all that you are against private investment. And they're actually against private investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u147	That's the maximum!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u148	And just look at this week, it ends tomorrow. The Left Block is against PPPs (public-private partnerships) in health,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u149	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u150	...is against private investment in health. You are against private schools, against private investment in education. [[The Members of the Greens are laughing at Apollonia.]] You are against the existence of the private financial system, want everything public,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u151	There's another one!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u152	... just watch interviews and several statements. If we were to remember what they said about the "garden gold" and what they said about the PINs in all the legislatures,... [[Protests by Members of the CFP and the Member of the Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] ... it is clear that « management », whether legitimately public investment, hates, does not want and does everything to prevent private investment in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u153	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u154	from the Socialist Party is less a bit, it is just incompetence to capture foreign private investment for Portugal. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] I'm not saying that we don't have to evaluate, monitor. I would say that exactly on the « golden visas».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u155	Good memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u156	In fact, I quote the current Prime Minister: it is not because there are frauds in driving cards that end with driving cards. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Therefore, it is not because there are exaggerations or perhaps a less careful reading in the application of the PIN regime that should simply end the PINs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u157	But he's out of line!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u158	I remember, even, Mrs Deputy, Decree-Law No 154 / 2013, which says that the PINs must have proven economic viability,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u159	And they don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u160	... shall be susceptible to adequate environmental and territorial sustainability,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u161	Some don't have!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u162	... must have energy efficiency or promote renewable energy sources,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u163	Some don't have!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u164	... must have shown environmental interest, among a number of other issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u165	Some don't have!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u166	If some don't have, we have to deal with those who don't have, it's not putting everything in the same bag!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u167	See if you're talking about the companies that are polluting the Tejo?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u168	Even yesterday, the coherence of VV. Ex.a. we need investment inside, we need to arrange. Does the honourable Member and the honourable Member know how many of these PIN investments have been inside? Do you want me to quote some who have created jobs, set populations and brought foreign direct investment into the interior? [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] It is clear that this is a tool, among others, of investment capture, of innovation creation...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u169	Most of them are on the coast!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u170	Madam Member, I even believe that there is more on the coast, but we have, for example, Solar Horta, in Covilhã, Portucel, in Viana, Luso Finsa, in them, among others.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u171	Sir, Viana is on the coast!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u172	Among other things, Mrs. Deputy. This means that we have an excellent instrument here—and there are several of these PINs in the Alentejo, Embraer, for example—which has to be applied as it is designed. Madam Member, this is an exception regime and if so it has to be applied with exception, with rigour, with discipline and with supervision. And there has to be the perfect balance between environmental protections... so they are called projects of national interest, and national interest has to be above any other interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u173	Is the environment not a national interest? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u174	That is why, honourable Member, is that I say we could be discussing these instruments seriously, we could be strengthening the control mechanisms, we could be strengthening the licensing mechanisms, for a very simple reason: I think it is impossible not to have a rapid and rapid mechanism of response to these investments. Who invests are the entrepreneurs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u175	Why can't some? We need to comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u176	...is their money. They're looking for Portugal. The time we took to graduate is a lot, considering how everything changes today... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u177	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u178	... in macroeconomic scenarios and economic prospects; then, time is a decisive factor. That is why we are in favour of a rapid regime that is auditable, rigorous and that puts the country on a competitive footing to capture investments with rules, that empowers the installation of projects in the interior, that creates jobs, that strengthens exports and that can, essentially, bring us know-how and new management and investment instruments to Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u179	Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u180	This is our vision. We do not hate private investment,... [[Protests from the CFP and the Member of the Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] ...you hate private investment. Say, once and for all, do not come sub-reflectively to cancel everything that is an instrument of investment capture. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u181	Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PIN and PIN + scheme allows the recognition of some investment projects as being of potential national interest, and I quote what the Portuguese investment agency says: « (...) ensuring close monitoring, promoting the overcoming of administrative locks and ensuring a rapid response, (...) in particular in terms of licensing and access to financial and fiscal incentives; » — end of quote. This is an exception regime which we cannot accept and which has caused so much damage, particularly environmental damage, from north to south of the country. Such exceptional schemes raise questions as soon as possible about their legitimacy. The State must treat all on an equal footing, so democratic legality requires it. The PIN scheme has created and created a system of privileges which is only accessible to a few and creates unfair conditions of competition with regard to investment. The PIN regime creates conditions of inequality and injustice in access to Public Administration. These are the conditions that lead the major investment projects to circumvent the rules laid down in the law, as regards territorial and environmental conditions, which must protect the public interest. The PIN regime legitimizes the runoffs to the environment and territory, as I said, many PINs are located and many others can be created in classified natural areas, i.e. Natura 2000 Network, National Ecological Network, National Agricultural Reserve and other environmentally protected areas. I only give a few examples of projects. For example, the logistics platform of Castanheira do Ribatejo, located in full bed and in lands of the RAN. The Ikea factory in Paços de Ferreira, located in a forest area and the REN, despite the existence of an industrial park near with great access and free space. The mega-enterprises in the Heritage of Pinheirinho, Costa Terra and Herdade da Comporta, all located on the site Comporta, Galé, da Rede Natura 2000, with a total area of 1200 ha and more than 16 000 beds,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u183	Alone? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u184	... including six golf courses, 21 tourist villages, 660 homes and 21 hotels. What about the mega-enterprise Troya Resort in water public domain? And now, what about some mega-enterprises as well, for example, in Quinta da Umbria, in Loule. And now we have another one to begin, also in Quinta do Freixo, in Loulé, which violates Community directives, protected community sites, habitats, Nature Network and may affect the main aquifer of the Algarve, the Querença-Silves aquifer. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, the Left Block is not against investments. The Left Block is certainly against the destruction of what is national heritage, which is everyone's, what is environmentally protected. We can't admit that. That is why the Left Block certainly accompanies these initiatives, both from the PCP and from the Green Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u185	For a new intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Luís Moreira Testa has the floor, to whom I ask to be brief, given that there is little time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, many of us know what we have seen. The Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party have brought these initiatives that we accompany in part of the need to better spy on the environmental sins committed by many. We, in the PS, know what we saw and know what the CDS comes to, just don't know what the PSD comes to, who weaves here wide criticisms of the PINs, its validity, and then we don't realize what it did in the government to restrict environmental farms without even worrying about, at this moment, also about the need for foreign and national investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u187	Mr. Luís Moreira Testa, thank you for your temporary restraint. To conclude the debate, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I was listening to the PSD intervention in this debate and, with due respect, I reminded myself of that phrase: "They speak, they speak, they speak, but they say nothing! », they say nothing for the debate, for what is actually under discussion. That's why they didn't say! And on the side of the CDS, they actually brought mystifications and distortions, but for the debate they brought nothing again. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a very simple question: after all, how do the CFP proposals vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u189	That's easy! It's against!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u190	You know it's against!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u191	Or, better, have you read the CFP proposal? I just don't think so! I shall read: « Article 1. o — It is not permitted to develop real estate projects in territory classified as (...) (REN) or (...) (RAN) that do not scrupulously comply with the criteria or the purposes that have substantiated and determined their classification as Potential Projects National Interest". Are you against this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u192	We are! We are!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u193	Are you against the fact that the tax provisions in force apply to the gains resulting from the valuation of integrated territories through the PINs and PINs? Oh, my God! Are you against which law is met? Oh, my God! [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] You are in favour of an exception regime, which actually means a rule without law, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! It is that favoring investment can't mean closing your eyes to what you come after! [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] It is well in view of the confusion that some Members have. Members do, and have once again, between national interests and the interests of the large economic groups. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-12.u194	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our work today. Our next meeting will be tomorrow at 10 a.m. and will have a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, and will have five points, all of them without assigned times, which I am going to state: second point, projects of lein.os 218 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Tenth amendment to the Statute of Deputies adopted by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( PSD ), 219 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — No amendment to the Legal Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and High Public Charges, approved by Law No 64 / 93 of 26 August ( PSD ), 220 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ( Public control of the wealth of political office holders ) ( PSD ), 221 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Unjustified enrichment ( Thirty-fifth amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March, fourth amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July, and sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ) ( PCP ), 225 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulates the activity of professional representation of interests ( Lobbying ) ( CDS-PP ) and 226 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Strengthens transparency in the exercise of political and high-level positions ( CDS-PP ) ; third point, first supplementary budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2016 ; fourth point, consists of draft resolution No 313 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Support services of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ( RA President ) ; and fifth point, the Annual Report of the DNA Profile Database Monitoring Board – 2015. I repeat, all these points are timeless. At the end of the 15th year debate with Mr Prime Minister, we will have a regiment vote. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 28 minutes.]]
