ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of authority to open the galleries. Mrs. Members, the first point of our agenda is the general assessment of Bill No 300 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the National Cadastral Information System ( SNIC ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ) together with draft resolution No 513 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to implement the rustic register in Portugal ( CFP ). To present the bill on behalf of the PSD, Mr Maurício Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal will have to be a country that is known, a country that is profitable, a country that enhances its rustic territory. The environmental, agricultural and forestry problems that we face every year are serious threats, not only for our generations, but also for future generations. The absence of registration is a national structural problem for many decades, being perfectly identified. An up-to-date register is essential for the implementation of a true policy of planning the rustic territories. It is not possible to order a space that is unknown. It is not possible to plan activities in property of undefined holders. Real and efficient forest prevention and protection against fires can only be properly implemented with adequate rural planning. Bill No. 300 / XIII, which today presents itself, rightly aims to resolve, in a speedy way, a constraint to the development of a true rural policy. The creation of a national cadastral information system, which brings together all the pieces of this puzzle, is strictly fundamental and necessary for the achievement of this objective. A unique system, which, in an unburocratized but organized way, ensures the link between the building register and the building matrix and adds geometric information, is a fundamental tool for a convenient spatial planning. The proposed scheme aims to harmonise the system of registration of the millions of existing buildings, as well as to promote the completion of the cadastral survey of the entire national territory, in order to enable each building to correspond to a single identification, of common use throughout the Public Administration. To this end, it is necessary to create a single information system, which contains all existing and future cadastral information; to involve and hold all public and private entities responsible for this purpose; to promote cooperation between the various entities operating in the rural world and citizens in the implementation and updating of cadastral information; to provide uniform and computerized management of cadastral information; to ensure that the predidal description, in the residential register, is accompanied by cartographic support; to ensure widespread access to cadastral information by the Public Administration, by citizens and entities, e.g., with the safeguard of personal data protection; to enable their linkage with other geographic information systems related to land use and spatial planning, enabling the conjugation of cadastral information with other types of information relating to the territory. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The system we propose is to associate to each building a sheet which brings together the three systems for reference of the property information: addinal register — geometrical information; addiral matrix — tax information; and addinal registration — property information. To this sheet we will associate a number, to which we call the initial identification number (IPN). The development of this system is based on a model of progressive implementation, promoting the best use of all existing cartographic information, dispersed in several bodies. Today the country already has several unshared cadastral elements among the various services of the Public Administration. Collection on a single platform of all existing registration elements, with a possible update, would make it possible to significantly increase our cadastral information. It is therefore necessary to simplify the procedures in order to make use of all information available by accredited entities and technicians for this purpose, which is the responsibility of the State to regulate and monitor the operation of the procedures. This is not a closed proposal, our aims are to create a simple but efficient mechanism to overcome this constraint, for the sake of our territory. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u3	To present the bill on behalf of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has a total area of 9 million ha, scattered by 17 million buildings, of which 11 million, that is 65 %, are rustic. The cadastral operations carried out to date, essentially to the south of the Tejo, have enabled the identification of only 50 % of the national territory and 12 % of the number of buildings. These cadastral identification operations began in 1927 and it took more than 60 years to complete the 126 councils that are currently completed. At the same time, it is important to say that 94 % of our territory is rural, more than one third of the forest and that we have essentially private property, extremely fragmented and very dispersed. This is the picture of the structural situation in our country. The three systems of reference for information that exist have been created with different objectives and are therefore dispersed by so many other records, mostly still today without correspondence between their contents: the property matrix, with tax information, the property record, about property rights, and the building register, about the territory. This disarticulation of information is an obstacle to a correct and effective policy of planning and management of the territory and has led several governments over the past decades to seek, without success, a reform of the cadastral system. The schemes for the production of registers currently in force are based on systematic operations, i.e. operations covering a continuous area of the territory and are therefore extremely long and entailing very high costs, calling into question the regime itself, as proved by the'state of the art' at the end of almost a century of registration. This was the case with Decree-Law No 172 / 95, which had the virtue of introducing a multifunctional logic into the national system of residential registration, by contrast to the objectives exclusively of a fiscal nature that it had so far, but whose practical result was the conclusion of three more councils in a decade, i.e. 1, 5 % of the territory. In 2007 the experimental system of SINERGIC ( National System of Exploration and Management of Cadastral Information ) emerged, which introduced the need for the harmonisation of information between the various existing data and to produce, but maintained the logic of the system of registration. A decade returned with nothing to happen, in 2014 the pilot experiment began and, two years and 17 million euros later, seven more municipalities have their building record at the conclusion stage. Mrs. Members: It is imperative that the paradigm of collecting cadastral information be changed. [[CDS-PP applause.]] within the framework of the various sectoral public policies developed, either by the central administration, or by the local administration, or even by the private, within projects financed from public funds, there is a set of information that needs to mobilize, in a collective effort of cadastral coverage of the country. On the other hand, today's technology allows, and imposes, a model for the collection and processing of information distinct from what we defined in 1926 or even in 1995. The high financial costs associated with the collection of cadastral data make it imperative to ensure the interoperability of data from all sources of information with geographical relevance and to promote their integration into a shared system. The XIX Constitutional Government, PSD / CDS, has made a wide reform of the spatial planning with the revision of the General Basics Law on Soil Public Policy, the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments (RJIGT ), the Legal Regime of Funding Structure ( RJEF ) and the Legal Regime Applicable to Arborization and Rearborization Actions ( RJAAR ), the creation of the National Land Exchange and the law of the lands abandoned or without known owners, which have made a good contribution to the planning of the territory. Therefore, giving continuity to the work developed, we present this bill, which creates the national cadastral information system, which has already been very well identified here by Mr Mauricio Marques. This system aims to harmonise the property registration system, linking it with other existing geographic information systems, ensuring the unique identification of buildings, through a pre-determined identification number; being a simple register, i.e. focused on the building and not on the territory and therefore a gradual registration, allowing it to progress in the registration simultaneously at various points of the territory, taking advantage of pre-existing information, without this representing a significant increase in costs; and being voluntary, despite some situations in which it should be mandatory, such as buildings financed by Community funds. The need for rustic land registry is recognized as particularly urgent in forest spaces, especially in the north and center of the country, where the fragmentation of the property is an obstacle to the proper management and protection of the forest against fires. Only by knowing the owners can the State apply the necessary public policies to the proper planning of the territory. The forest sector is a strategic sector for the development of the country. The fact that 97 % of producers are private and 87 % have areas between 0, 5 ha and 3 ha obliges them to develop policies to encourage investment and good forest management, which allow efficiency gains and greater profitability to their owners. This is what we did, in particular with fiscal measures, in the mandate of the previous Government, such as the amendment of the system of depreciation and depreciation under IRC (the income tax of the public ), which enabled tax deductions to be adjusted to the very long period of forest revenue ; the exemption of IMT ( municipal tax on onerous property transmissions) and the imposition of stamps on the acquisitions of buildings in forest intervention zones ( ZIF ) ; the exemption of IMI ( municipal property tax) for properties that adhere to the ZIF ; the increase in contributions of common funds in ZIF areas ; or the elimination of a set of context costs identified by the sector. But because we understand that taxation for forests can and should also be improved, we have recently presented in this House a bill that creates the forest management account and we are still working on a wider package of measures for forests that respect the role of the authorities and the forest guards. Mrs. Members, this bill intends to be a starting point, open to the contributions that these banks and even the government, in the context of the announced reform of the forest sector, may wish to make, in order to improve. A better organized and better-known territory and a better managed forest, for which we all want and should contribute, should be our point of arrival. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u5	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Every time the problem of forest fires in Portugal is exacerbated, it is recalled the need to make the rustic register, as a fundamental element for adequate forest management. The realization of the rustic register is essential for the real knowledge of rustic property in Portugal and will be an important element for stimulating national production, necessary to ensure our food sovereignty and in response to the economic and social situation in which the country is immersed. Recognition of its importance is such that all governments that enter into office take their place. The lack of implementation of the rustic register in Portugal is due only to the lack of political determination of successive governments, in particular because they have not made available the EUR 700 million that is estimated to be costing them. It is essential that this investment be made, therefore, without investment there is no register of quality. Pilot experiments have advanced with half the cost of what was planned, with the use of precarious workers on the ground, without permanent technical personnel and with cabinet teams, and now complaints are being drawn. The PCP has long argued that the constitution of a body of cadastral technicians with the Directorate-General of the Territory would be an important element to take forward this task. The few known data on pilot experiments that took place in seven municipalities demonstrate the difficulties. Since the registration of buildings was not compulsory, many owners did not do so, which is why it is said that 40 % of the property has no known owner, which clearly does not correspond to reality. Let the autarchs say that, wanting to extend rural roads, they are quickly confronted with the affected owners who then appear. This weak accession will not be disconnected from the cost of registration of the property, how often it comes from inheritance and with a heritage value far below those costs. They are therefore fundamental teams on the ground and extraordinary measures to regulate the ownership register. If there is no doubt as to the importance of the construction of the building register, there should also be no indecisions as to its progress. The CFP considers that instruments are not missing, but have lacked means. And it is in this sense that the CFP proposes that an evaluation of pilot experiments should be carried out in the implementation of the building register, as a first step to outline the strategy and that then the rustic registration in Portugal be carried out, based on a strategy of teams on the ground. It also proposes that the CFP provide the public services of registered technicians necessary to follow up this extraordinary task as well as in the subsequent management of the registration. It also considers that the CFP requires extraordinary measures to regulate the property transited by inheritance, with reduced costs for the small property. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u7	Mr Francisco Rocha, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to congratulate the Members of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CFP on the initiative to bring to debate this central issue of registration. from our point of view, the register should be considered as one of the main instruments of territorial planning policy and therefore should not be disconnected from issues related to land use, rural development strategies, sustainable growth and also the fight against climate change. Indeed, due to all these implications, the completion of the register is enshrined in the Basic Law on Forest Policy (LBPF) as a priority action. We agree with this instrument, because it is particularly useful in forestry policy, since, according to data from FAO ( Food and Agriculture Organization ) and Eurostat, over 25 years Portugal has lost more than a quarter of a million hectares of forest, the equivalent of the Lisbon area, each year, which is in clear contradiction with the overwhelming majority of European countries. It should also be noted that developments in recent decades have not contributed to increasing the weight of the forest sector in GDP (gross domestic product ), certainly because it is not known who, in a forest spot which, in more than 90 %, is owned by private and rural communities. It is therefore essential to have adequate knowledge of the owners of the forest areas, especially in regions where they take the greatest risk. That there is no doubt: there is political will to finally do so, as is expressed, for example, in the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion. Mr. João Ramos, we must challenge the future. If we agree with the urgency of implementing the rural register and knowing that today in Portugal there are technologies that allow us to carry out this task more quickly and efficiently, does it consider interesting to promote partnerships with higher education institutions that investigate and produce knowledge in these areas, such as the University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u9	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u10	Mr President, Mr Francisco Rocha, thank you very much for the question. in the CFP, we believe that there are necessary instruments, sufficient for the creation of a register to move forward. Since 2007 there have been legislative instruments that have enabled the pilot experiments to be supported. We understand that it is essential to move forward, political decision needs to be taken. Because of the costs involved in carrying out the registration, we realize that this cannot be done from today to tomorrow, but for that reason too, we must start now. And to begin with, it can certainly be and must be developed a set of partnerships necessary for the realization of this register. But, attention, these partnerships can never mean the withdrawal of State responsibility in this matter, because the greatest responsibility is that of the State, and that is what needs to be done. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u11	Mr Domingos Pereira, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing, for further voting, Bill No. 300 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), which aims to create the SNIC, submitted jointly by the parliamentary groups of the PSD and the CDS-PP. Of course, the relevance of the matter is not at stake, but the content of the bill and the opportunity for its presentation by the PSD and CDS-PP parliamentary groups. Why? Of course, because it will be important to know the reason for the bill presented by the two parliamentary groups only now to be discussed in this House, when there is no longer any political link that gives sustainability to a political, formal or informal coalition that justifies this situation. This joint presentation will eventually be associated with a political claim by the previous coalition government, PSD / CDS-PP, which was embodied in the submission in October 2013 of the State Budget for 2014, which included an explanatory note by the Ministry of the Environment, Land Planning and Energy, of which it stated on page 11 the intention to create the new model of ad hoc registration, based on four assumptions. The first is the implementation of a new registration model, which will promote a faster and wider update to the entire country of the National Cadastral Information System and enhance job creation. The second premise is that of the implementation of the SNIC. The third is that of the implementation of the three-level predidal identification number — geometry, matrix and registration. The fourth premise is the extension of the implementation of the residential register to natural persons duly qualified. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the XIX Constitutional Government, of PSD / CDS-PP coalition, had since the approval of the 2014 State Budget two years to implement such measures, but did nothing about this supposed SNIC. Is the joint presentation of this bill due to the fact that you have passed any ministerial office of the previous Government? It's a chance. But if this is the case, why, only now, has it been about a year since the current government took possession and spent three years of the intentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP to pass a law on this matter, is the bill being presented in this House?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u13	You have done nothing during this time. Did we have to do it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u14	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the present bill assigns to local authorities, and only to municipalities, a residual and secondary role, until submission, before the central administration. This vision is contrary to the 21st Constitutional Government Programme, which has a decentralizing and deepening view of local democracy, involving municipalities and parish churches. The municipalities and the parish must be recognized as dynamizing entities, with the deepening and use of existing resources and knowledge, thanks to the proximity with the populations and territorial differentiation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the XXI Constitutional Government has a concern with the resolution of this problem of the urban and rustic register, in order to extend the scope of the Simplex, as well as the unique residential information, to the entire public sector, integrating all the information of the territorial and urban planning of the building and the register, as described in Dispatch No 9389 / 2016 of 22 July. This Office unequivocally bases a concern subscribed by various ministries by creating a representative working group to study this problem, with the inclusion of a timetable for the presentation of results, and hence producing the legislation that corresponds to the real needs of the country, involving the territorially representative entities of all local realities. in this sense, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party considers that it is not temporarily appropriate to present this bill, because it does not fall within the policy of the XXI Constitutional Government and, most importantly, in the spirit of the aforementioned office, given only three months ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u15	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as there are no more entries, I think we can move on to the second point of our agenda. That's right, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? The Left Block Parliamentary Group has not yet given any intervention. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u16	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u17	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u18	I would ask for the floor not for an intervention but to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings. I would like to remind Mr President, and especially the Left Block Parliamentary Group, that in the framework of the gentleman's agreement at the Conference of Leaders, the parties with legislative initiative would end the debate. The PSD Parliamentary Group also has 4 minutes and 27 seconds of regulatory time to use in a final intervention. But if the parliamentary groups that have not yet spoken wish to do so in the meantime, this obviously makes it difficult to comply with that principle.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u19	The honourable Member is right. I have already done my best to get the parliamentary groups that have not yet used the floor to do so. However, I cannot force any of the parliamentary groups to do so. Please, Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u20	Mr President, if in fact we are now making our speech and if there is any party that is subsequently involved, the agreement that was concluded at the Leaders Conference is no longer making any sense for the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u21	I have just been informed that the PCP registers for an intervention. You have the floor, Mr. João Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD and the CDS-PP promote a legislative amendment in an area in which the previous legislation, in a way, did not actually be tested or put into practice, and that is also the responsibility of the former Government. Even at the end of the Socrates Government's mandate, the PSD did not tire of demanding, insisting, justifying the need for registration for the fight against forest fires. What is the result of the mighty resolutions of the Council of Ministers of the Government Steps / Doors, the responsibility of the then Minister of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Planning of the Territory, today leader of the CDS-PP, on the subject? Where's the register, sirs. PSD and CDS-PP Members? Zero! If there is no rustic register in Portugal today, or if the elaboration of the rustic register has not been structured, the responsibility is also the PSD and CDS-PP. This burden of responsibility makes it no less necessary or less urgent to carry out the registration and therefore this government will have to assume that responsibility and start doing what previous governments have not done. With regard to the proposal of the PSD and the CDS-PP today under discussion, and before an assessment of its content, we would like to stress that these parties appear to be an error of assessment, which is, after all, another way of concealing responsibilities. If the registration is not made today is not due to lack of instruments or legislation, it is due to lack of allocation of resources to the process and to the Directorate-General of the Territory. And, therefore, more than legislation, what is needed is decision. The proposal of the PSD and the CDS-PP does not raise any fundamental objections. However, we believe that it needs specifications on some subjects. We understand that not making a methodological distinction between the urban register and the rustic — taking into account the complexity of the rustic register and its implementation — may not draw the necessary differentiation for the latter's advance. The proposal also does not consider the necessary incentives for the registration of buildings as a key element for the collaboration of the owners. The PSD and CDS-PP want, with more of this project, to atone for their sins. It is time for the government in office to do everything to mitigate this gap in the country, with commitment, so that one day later it will not regret not having done so. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u23	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We consider this political initiative timely and relevant given the need for real knowledge of rural and rustic property in Portugal. I would therefore like to congratulate the Communist Party on the presentation of this draft resolution. Registration is a fundamental and decisive instrument for better management of rural space, specifically the agroforestry sector, allowing us to effectively identify the property to better know who it is. The register, when implemented and well monitored, provides the State and all other actors involved with interests in rural communities that enable them to define and implement political measures for the proper use of the soil, namely the level of their cleaning, their sorting, their cultivation and, consequently, a strong reduction in uncultivated land, to increase productivity and generate wealth that will help to set rural populations. On the other hand, we will also have to recognize that, by making greater and better use of soils and by reducing uncultivated land, we are creating better environmental conditions to promote and enhance forest fire prevention. The need and importance of the registration is more pressing in areas of low density strongly depopulated in mini-fund areas, which I so well know by the connection to the sector and given the origin of my election as a Member. over the past few years, much has been said and written about the importance and necessity of the registration for the advantages that come at economic, environmental and social level. however, this was not assumed and executed by the high costs that have been associated with its development. We should try to reconcile investment with positive gains through quality, professional and proximity work so that we can start a sustained course that will allow us to have an updated record in the coming years to meet the challenges that lie ahead and proper management and land use.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u25	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the preparation of the register, we must adopt an inclusive and participatory model involving and promoting the participation of communities residing in the territories, agents associated with the associations that most identify themselves with this sector and local authorities, both within the municipal and parish boards. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u27	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's subject has a great deal to do with the recurring concern in the country caused by forest fires which, in a pressing manner, have placed the country and many populations in place. Obviously, this situation is directly linked to the lack of responsibility that can be asked of many forest stain owners, because they do not care about the forest and have no concern about ensuring the cleaning of their property. However, the State is ineffective in carrying out these responsibilities to the owners, because there is no register indicating that a certain forest stain has a certain owner. It is true that in many measures we are also talking about issues relating to sharing, inheritances, which makes it difficult, in a serious way, to identify the owners. however, we cannot fail to mention the responsibility of the various governments, as well as the Assembly of the Republic, for over decades they have not solved this problem of the country that has been known for a long time. Thus, on the initiatives on the table, it is first to evaluate that of PSD and CDS, not so much because of its content, but because of its timing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u29	If that were the case, the honourable Member would not have registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u30	The PSD and the CDS had been in the government for four years, they knew about this problem because it had been identified for a long time and, however, had to move on to the opposition to do something about it and to present an initiative. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Another good reason for, after all, having come to the opposition. If there were any doubts that they worked more in the opposition than they did when they were in the government, it would suffice to see what happened in this regard. I believe that it is necessary, even because of the importance of this dossier, to hold a debate in the specialty capable of involving the various opinions that have already been expressed in this debate. We express our appreciation of the matter presented by the CFP Parliamentary Group for its adequacy to the needs of the country. I believe that, even for the interventions we have already heard, it is also to be noted not because of the lack of legal instruments that the registration has not been carried out, but often because of the lack of will, both of the Government Executive and of several municipal executives. This is a reality which is not changed by a legal amendment and from there also the difficulty we have on the table. from the Left Block, we have all the openness to, in the specialty, make our contribution and arrive at a final proposal on this dossier that fits the moment we live and that responds to the delay in this matter in the country. But I insist on this point, rather than changing the law, we must change many of the behaviours of the private sector, but also of public servants, government and municipal chambers, so that the law can actually have some kind of compliance. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u31	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u32	Mr President, I would like to reply to Mr Domingos Pereira and also to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. When Mr. Domingos Pereira said that in 2014 the previous government intended to make a bill on registration, having been two years to implement it, he certainly did not hear my intervention. It is because I said that the previous government had initiated a wide range of land planning reforms, with various legal regimes for land restructuring, forestry and reforestation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u33	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u34	Therefore, from 2014 to the end of 2015, there was a broad legislative process...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u35	And then there was a " coup d'état"! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u36	Exactly then there was a " coup d'état" and it was not possible to publish this bill. The PS notes that the bill translates a decentralizing view. But once again, the honourable Member has not heard my speech, because our bill intends to absorb and gather information not only from the central administration but also from the local administration. As regards the opportunity, Mr President, I do indeed wonder whether the existence or lack of it is due to the opportunity that this Government had when it planned to meet, during October, a Council of Ministers—which is still coming in time, because for the week it is still October... — on the reform of the forest sector. In addition, Mr. Secretary of State for Forests and Rural Development, not long ago, in October, in an interview he gave to a media agency, he referred, in relation to the rustic register, which had been formed a working group to deal with this matter, addressing the knowledge of rustic property in an easier and more friendly way, both in terms of time and from a financial point of view. He also said that the work would be accelerated. However, if the work was to be accelerated in September, it seems to me that this initiative will not suffer from lack of political opportunity, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u38	Finally, they accuse the previous government, the PSD and the CDS of being two years without presenting anything. I'm asking, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what they will say when in February 2006 Minister Nunes Correia of the PS Government presented the SINERGIC experimental regime in which he said in a debate in this Parliament: "We intend to lay the foundations of this system, taking advantage of, of course, of the best information technologies available at this time, so that from 2007 the system can be used and consulted. Of course these systems take time to build." But only in 2014, with the PSD / CDS government, is that SINERGIC has been implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u40	So I ask: What political opportunity do you think there is not with the presentation of this bill? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u41	Finally, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: To close this debate, I should like to tell the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party, particularly Mrs Palmira Maciel, who we agree that this proposal is timely and relevant. I also agree with Mr Francisco Rocha when he says there is political will. however, Mr Domingos Pereira says that it is not appropriate to do so now. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand! That doesn't even happen to be a management within the PS. [[PSD applause.]] As for the work that we have done in the previous Government, I would like to list the 10 measures that have been adopted in this Parliament in terms of planning the territory and conservation of nature in order to create the conditions for a sustainable and professional advance to this project of national registration. We have approved the Law on Soil Bases, Land Planning and Urbanism; we have approved the Legal Regime of Urbanization and Building; we have approved the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments; we have implemented the reform of the spatial planning and technical training of the Public Administration for these new changes; we have launched the open, geo-responsible data platform; we have approved the Special Regime of the Regularization of Economic Activities; we have approved the legal regime on cartography; we have approved the National Policy on Architecture and Landscape; we have evaluated the action programme in force, the National Programme of Territorial Management Policy; and we have created the new profession of registration technician who, by sign, had the favourable votes of the Socialist Party. I would like to stress that in the last 20 years the Socialist Party has been in government for 13 years and 228 days. What did you do? What have they done to be seen, not in theory, but in practice, in terms of the cadastral identification of our territory? In four and a half years, we did much more than you did in 13 years! [[PSD applause.]] After all this discussion, I think we converge on a question: the development of any country is only possible if there is full knowledge of its resources and its potential. And this knowledge is, as we have seen, a fundamental tool for the definition of national policies, in the area of economics, the environment, nature conservation, combating climate change, agricultural development and forestry. It is essential that we converge on this issue and I think that was unanimous in this House. So if we converge on this, what is there to do? It's putting hands to work, it's working! It's not saying it's not appropriate, it's not delaying. It is to do, that is to work, that is to take the ground, that is to put the technicians, whose career we have approved, to work and make the national register of rustic property, which is essential for the development of low-density territories. in the space of a week, we agreed here — they have come down to the Commission, of course, and we will have the opportunity to talk about the matter in our specialty, two important diplomas presented by the PSD, one last presented by the PSD and the CDS-PP, which are two sides of the same strategy: a strategy for territorial cohesion and full development and cohesion in our country. For us, the fundamental question is to ensure that the country does not continue to evolve at two speeds, in which there is the speed of the coast and that of the interior. The whole country must move at the same speed. We must therefore be aware that it is essential to converge on what is important and to differ in what does not bring added value to the country. This proposal brings great added value to the country and therefore we all count on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u43	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u44	What is at issue is the drop to its committee of the bill to find the necessary consensus. What we want to know, what we want them to tell us is whether or not they want the country to have a register, whether or not they want the country to move forward, or whether they want the country to continue to postpone. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u45	We will move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists of the discussion of draft resolutions 358 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Students with special educational needs in higher education ( PS ), 511 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — By a public and inclusive education in higher education ( PCP ), 512 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — For greater inclusion of students with special educational needs in higher education ( PSD ), 514 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — answers at higher education level for students with special educational needs ( NEE) ( The Greens), 515 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government draw up an action plan to enable students with special educational needs to be accessible to higher education ( PAN) and 516 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Support to students with special educational needs in higher education ( BE), together with generally the projects of lein.o 321 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Exemption of propines in the first and second cycles of higher education for disabled students ( BE) and 329 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Effective accessibility for all students with special educational needs in higher education ( NAP ). To present the PS draft resolution, Mrs Sandra Pontedeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I welcome all the parties that today present legislative initiatives calling this House to debate and seek the effective fulfilment of the principle of inclusive education in higher education. I also welcome all higher education institutions which, within the framework of their autonomy, generally provide support to students with special educational needs that are enrolled in them. I also leave a word of encouragement to the Working Group on Support for Students with Disabilities in Higher Education, where institutions have worked together since 2004.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u48	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Article 24. the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, signed and ratified by Portugal, establishes unequivocally that the States parties recognize the right of persons with disabilities to education, the right to an inclusive education system at all levels of education and lifelong learning. Public policies should therefore be designed to achieve these international designs and commitments, as well as the constitutional imperative of full access to education for all. The importance of the creation of the inter-ministerial working group, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, with clear objectives to fight for effective inclusive education, is emphasized from now on. The reality of about 79 000 students with special educational needs to attend compulsory education is a context on which it is important to promote a set of equal opportunities policies, both in access and in the frequency of higher education. Education and the promotion of the inclusion of people with disabilities are clear designs contained in this Government's programme and are also designs of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u50	The success of integration and citizenship is due to the challenges facing inclusive education also in higher education. It is in this framework that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, and at the right time, presents to this Parliament this draft resolution, recommending to the Government the following: that it implement the recommendations of the European Council and the European Commission, taking into account the priority areas and specific challenges defined with regard to inclusive education ; that it urges higher education institutions to respond to the special educational needs of their students; that it implement, by higher education institutions, educational practices necessary to meet special educational needs, taking into account the specific modalities of education defined by Decree-Law No 3 / 2008; that it undertake an annual evaluation of the implementation and results of the pedagogical practices recommended to higher education institutions, in order to maintain the monitoring of the education and learning course of students with special educational needs. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are already a country with great and important progress in inclusive education, which is undoubtedly a civilizational achievement. The position of the current government indicates that the path is the inclusion of people with disabilities and that this path has implications in all political areas and in the different sectors of our society and should therefore be defined priority objectives that guide the action towards effective inclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u52	Education is a public good, a fundamental human right and the basis that guarantees the realization of other rights. We should thus concentrate all our efforts on access, fairness and inclusion, in-depth, respect for human rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u53	To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a set of proposals on responses that ensure the integration and inclusion of young people with special needs in higher education. But we cannot talk about the guarantee of conditions of access to higher education, without talking about the necessary and essential intervention that must be done in all grades of compulsory education and also in the early years of the child's life. We put this question because without the necessary human and technical means, without the appropriate teaching materials, without the necessary adaptations and adaptations of the physical spaces of schools, without the indispensable follow-up to the specific needs of each child and young person in the 1st. o, 2. o is 3. the Basic and Secondary Education Cycles, without intervention in the early years of the child's life, identifying needs, planning and ensuring adequate follow-up, without all this, the possibility of these students reaching the highest levels of education is therefore also much more difficult. We cannot also turn away from the difficulties and deep shortages that exist today in special education, which are the responsibility of successive governments that, over the years, have invested in public school and that have supported a subfinance of public higher education, thus meaning less conditions to guarantee everyone, regardless of their origins, characteristics, economic or social conditions, due access, on equal terms, to all levels of education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u56	in the basic and secondary schools there are many cases of scarcity, and even absence, of teachers of special education, teachers and technicians of gestual language, psychologists, operational assistants, speech therapists, among other professionals, who have a fundamental role in monitoring and ensuring the inclusion of children and young people with special needs. We understand that it is important to implement measures that ensure the effective and full inclusion of children and young people with special needs throughout compulsory education, at all times of learning and at all times of their development, and also to ensure access and frequency to higher education for students with special educational needs and for students with disabilities. with regard to public higher education, important steps are taken to ensure the effective inclusion of these young people. Regardless of the instruments of autonomy of each institution, we believe it is essential to ensure the necessary means to achieve the material and human conditions necessary to ensure equal opportunities for young people with special needs. It is important to intervene to overcome the architectural obstacles that mean many of the public higher education buildings, making the necessary adaptations to both buildings and equipment. It is important to ensure the existence of necessary technical support and teaching materials appropriate to the specific needs of each young person with special needs. It is important to hire the necessary human resources for the proper follow-up of students with special needs, which goes through teachers, employees and other professionals, but also through the existence of multidisciplinary teams that follow the reality and needs of these young people. It is also important to reconcile the Portuguese public school with the constitutional principles, with the Basic Law of the Education System, with the anti-discrimination law, with international standards and guidelines and with the principle of equal opportunities, in a school for all and with a quality educational response for all. The right to education is a fundamental human right, and must be guaranteed to all on equal opportunities and responding to the educational needs of all and of each, so that all students obtain in all grades of education, especially in higher education, the great benefits that inclusive education can enhance. With the legislative initiative presented by the CFP, we want to better understand the difficulties experienced by young people with special educational needs and/or disabilities in access to higher education, as well as in their frequency, and to take steps to ensure that these young people comply with their right to education. The principles that are expressed in a set of international instruments and in national legislation, as well as in the Basic Law of the Education System and the Constitution of the Republic have not had the necessary concrete translation in the life of children and young people with special educational needs and with disabilities, in particular with regard to the right to education. The CFP is contributing, with this initiative, to solutions and to the necessary steps. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u57	To present the PSD draft resolution, Mrs Nilza Sena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme of inclusion of students with special educational needs in regular education is a guarantee of mature democracy and educational opportunities. Portugal is committed to this responsibility since the Salamanca Declaration, the outcome of the World Conference on Special Educational Needs, also organized by the United Nations in 1994, and to the objectives which the United Nations stipulated by 2030 and which enshrine equal access to all levels of education, including higher education, and vocational training for the most vulnerable, including people with disabilities. The main issues for these students have to do with accessibility, particularly with the elimination of physical barriers and digital barriers, and with equal opportunities. It is true that the previous Government and, above all, the Government's XX Programme had already shown this concern about the inclusion of people with disabilities, stating that students with special educational needs and their families deserve increased attention from education policies. However, we know that there is still a long distance in higher education to overcome these difficulties, because there is no clear public policy in this area, many of the initiatives that are taken vary from institution to institution, with its own limitations. It is not enough for these students to enter higher education institutions. For goals to be met, it takes much more than that: it is necessary to make curricula and study plans flexible; it is necessary to encourage volunteering mechanisms, to help these people, and the intensive use of information technologies, e-learning and other congenital digital platforms. in the Portuguese case, we know that there are many differences, many discrepancies between institutions and the survey that was carried out by the Working Group for Support to Students with Disabilities in Higher Education shows exactly that reality. in its publication of 19 June 2014, together with the Directorate-General for Higher Education, it was very clear that the number of students with special educational needs attending high school is not the same as it follows for higher education. This discrepancy shows precisely that we have only about 15% of students with special educational needs at the top, which contrasts with the 22% we have at the national level at the secondary level. The PSD therefore makes nine recommendations, which are not generalists such as those that were patented in the intervention of the Socialist Party. There are nine recommendations, indeed. We therefore recommend that the possibility of introducing, in the model of higher education financing, criteria for increasing the student's cost for students with special educational needs be studied, depending on their degree of disability. We suggest the development of a letter of good practice, to make it available to higher education institutions, in order to facilitate the adequacy of curricular plans. We also ask that the vacancies not occupied in the special quota for students with NEE in the first phase be made available in the successive phases of the national higher education competition. These and other measures aim to ensure that these students have equal opportunities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u59	To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today present a legislative initiative that seeks to give answers, at the level of higher education, to students with special educational needs and which can be part of a set of other projects that we have repeatedly presented in the Assembly of the Republic with a view to eliminating all forms of exclusion and marginalization. The truth, as other Members have already mentioned, is that there is, of course, a deficit of students with special educational needs at the level of higher education, and this is due to several factors, including the very difficulty of supporting these students in other degrees of education, which then hinders their access to higher education. But, on the other hand, in higher education itself there is a lack of a set of support mechanisms that these students cannot benefit from. in this sense, what the Greens consider is that we have an obligation — as elected — to fight for equal opportunities for all Portuguese people and, in the particular case of what we are talking about, to tighten up the institutions for the teaching of services and means to promote this equality of opportunity. When we talk about equal opportunities at this level, we are, of course, talking about equal access and equal success at this level of education. And because we also advocate a transforming education that reflects on everything that educational institutions can offer, the Greens are proposing to the Assembly of the Republic, Mr President, that it adopts a recommendation to the Government in the following sense: that it takes as a priority the responsibility to promote inclusive education that enables quality learning, including higher education and lifelong education to people with special educational needs; that higher education institutions provide adequate material and human resources to these students, including technological support; that higher education institutions should adequately respond to the special educational needs of their students, including appropriate pedagogical practices, access to information, personalized support to visually impaired students, deaf or with other significant learning limitations; that it should ensure the development of research, technology and innovation in the area of special education; that it enables, on the other hand, recognition, validation and certification of skills, higher education, skills and high-quality skills, with the use of formal education, both by means of education and by means of special education. That's what, basically, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Greens are proposing to the Assembly of the Republic. It is the contribution we make to a debate that we believe will all understand to be serious and fruitful in this matter. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u61	Mr PAN, André Silva, has the floor to present the diplomas of his party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, there are about 1 million people with some type of disability or disability. According to the information currently available on the social condition of these people, solidarity, civic and political rights and the social services provided have not been sufficient to eliminate inequalities, social injustice and exclusion. And it is in this sense that the NAP is presenting two legislative initiatives today. It is from the general knowledge that Portugal today is unequal to the level of distribution of opportunities among people with and without disabilities and this problem begins with access to education. In theory, there is no inhibition that disabled citizens do compulsory schooling or enter higher education. In practice, however, not all the necessary conditions are created for these citizens to be able to do so, especially with regard to higher education, which is not surprising, since only 14 % of the 1000 vacancies that existed at the beginning of this academic year for entry into higher education for persons with disabilities or disabilities have been filled. thus, we understand that the State's response should be coherent and integrated and we believe it is essential to remove not only the shortcomings of students with special educational needs, but also the accessibility of public transport careers serving Portuguese universities, as well as promoting the creation of a network of student support offices with special educational needs. If, on the one hand, the registration or registration of any child, young or adult based on the disability or on the special educational needs which appear, on the other hand, cannot continue to deprive these students of the conditions necessary for them to ensure mobility and autonomy during the period of operation of the establishment. We cannot continue to allow repeated violations of the principle of equality by treating who is different equally. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u63	Mr Jorge Falcato, from the Left Block, has the floor to present the BE diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the academic year 2013 / 2014, they were signaled in higher education 1318 students with special educational needs, corresponding to 0, 36 % of all students attending this level of education. in the current school year, only 14 % of the vacancies provided for in the special quota for students with disabilities were occupied: 140 students, corresponding to 0, 28 % of the vacancies in higher education. It is known that in the previous school year there were close to 11,000 students with special educational needs in high school, so we need to stop and think a little about the reasons that only 140 students use the special quota vacancies. One thing we know: the additional cost of living for family aggregates with disabled people is between €5100 and €26,300 per year. One of the barriers to access for disabled students to higher education is the lack of money. Therefore, we present a bill to exempt these students from the payment of propines, and we are convinced of their approval, not only because it is a fair measure, but also because, given the small number of students covered, the money needed to carry it out is absurd. But this measure is not enough, because this is not the only barrier that exists. In April this year, the United Nations Committee of Experts accompanying the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities showed its concern that the Portuguese State had not approved regulations on the support that universities should provide to these students and recommended that support services in higher education institutions be regulated. The Portuguese State has maintained a contradictory attitude over the years: while creating conditions for students with disabilities to enter higher education through the special quota, it has never regulated the conditions necessary for the removal of the barriers that these students face every day, leaving them delivered to their lot. These students are not in equal circumstances vis-à-vis the generality of their colleagues, because they have special needs that are not met, they have no access to adapted accommodation, they have no interpretation in the gestual language, they have no one to write the notes to them in the classroom, they have no one to help them go to the bathroom, they have no alternative curricula. With this motion for a resolution, we want these students to be guaranteed the conditions they need. In all public higher education institutions, there will have to be those responsible for ensuring to those who need a gestual-language interpreter, materials in Braille or digital format, third-person support, curriculum adjustments, adapted evidence, extended deadlines for work or extra time in exams. In all institutions, there will have to be the money needed to guarantee all these support. This is the only way students with special educational needs will have equal opportunities. That is the only way to achieve the compromise this House has made in approving the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u65	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We recognize the importance of this discussion, but we think it is important to start by discussing what we already know about what is going on in this matter. We know that there is indeed a lack of legal framework, contrary to what is happening in non-higher education, which is regulated by Decree-Law No 3 / 2008, which is currently being reviewed by the government's cross-cutting working group dealing with disability issues. We know that there is indeed a lack of articulation in the school course of these students, in the transition from secondary education to higher education, and that the support they received so far and the type of work they did are unknown from the teachers of higher education. We also know that the number of students entering higher education through the special quota—which is available only in the first phase—is low, in view of the number of students with special educational needs attending the secondary level. We know that many, although not all, higher education institutions provide support services to students with disabilities, following the work carried out since 2004 by the Working Group on Support for Students with Disabilities in Higher Education. And we know, of course, that higher education institutions have autonomy that they are responsible for finding solutions to the specific cases of their students, although they also have strong budgetary restrictions. What do we not yet know about this matter? We do not know what means are missing in higher education institutions, whether they are educational resources, whether they are technical support, whether they are adaptations to buildings, and what the map of these needs in the country. We cannot estimate the financial impact of these needs. We do not know what the fair criterion and the appropriate interval for possible increases to scholarships to be attributed to this universe of students. And, very important, we do not know the content and potential impact of the Inclusion for Knowledge program, announced on 29 September by Secretary of State Fernanda Rollo. Having said this, it is clear to the CDS that it is necessary to move forward in this area, even because, with the increase in compulsory education for these students too, it is predictable and desirable that many of them continue studies in higher education. But we need to move forward knowing the concrete reality in order to be able to respond effectively. « Students with special educational needs», as you know, is a broad designation, which covers different types of requirements, which, in turn, involve differentiated responses. We are therefore available for work to identify situations in higher education institutions and their needs. We are available to listen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, interested people, whether schools, students and families, or support institutions and caregivers. We are available to quantify and schedule an intervention plan, because these are the critical steps towards an effective result and not simply to shake up inconsequential political flags that do not build the true equality of opportunities that we all want. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u67	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the second item on the agenda is thus concluded. The following point consists of the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 308 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to the Electoral Law of Local Authorities, approved by the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August ( BE), 318 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the Organic Law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August ( Electoral Act of the Bodies of Local Authorities ), concerning applications by groups of electors ( CDS-PP ) and 328 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to the Electoral Act of Local Authorities, simplifying and clarifying the conditions for applications by groups of citizens and extending the scope of the Equality Act ( PS ). Each parliamentary group will have 5 minutes and the 1 minute NAP. To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill that the Left Block presents in the Assembly of the Republic aims to facilitate the access of groups of citizens to the local elections, proposing the elimination of inequalities in the face of the conditions required by political parties. It is about ensuring the equal treatment of all these applications. in the previous Legislation, the Left Block had already presented two bills on the subject under discussion, which were plunged by the PSD and the CDS-PP. This is a question of democracy, but we all know that the right is bad with this concept. But as the Block never gives up the fight for democracy, an increasingly improved democracy, the fight for rights, here we are again bringing the issue to the House of Democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u70	As is known, the 1997 constitutional review extended the possibility of applications of citizens to the bodies of the municipalities. however, there have continued to be various constraints on this type of candidacy, the principle of equality, the principle of equal opportunities and the treatment of various applications and the principle of proportionality, constitutionally enshrined. in our proposal we again accept the recommendations of the Ombudsman in 2010, suggesting the amendment of legislation to ensure equal conditions for all these applications. Thus, we propose that independent applications may have their own symbol, contrary to what the law currently stipulates, allowing only a symbol consisting of a Roman number from 1 to 20. How recommended—and well! — the Ombudsman, « symbols are part of the political message of each application, representing the images(...) an element of valorisation and effectiveness of the content intended to pass through». And the impossibility of using an image/ symbol, "will be an effective disadvantage" for applications that do not use it. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Another issue that penalises the candidatures of groups of citizens, particularly in the smaller municipalities in which they compete, is related to the disproportionate form required for the number of applicants on a list, according to the current form of calculation. I give only one example: in the smallest municipality of the country, Corvo, in the Azores, the subscriptions of 63% of voters are required, while in Lisbon they do not reach 1% of voters. In fact, it is necessary to change this situation and it is here that our project proposes 1, 5 % of tenderers, although safeguarding some minimum and maximum. Finally, in order to equalize the independent authentic candidatures with those of the political parties, what the Bloc proposes is that one can replace up to a quarter of the effective candidates in cases of death, desistence or ineligibility, which is not permitted by the current law. It is to welcome the Socialist Party project, whose proposals are common, or approach those of the Left Block. in this matter, the PSD did not want to come to play, because it is known that it is out of play in much of what is discussed here. On the other hand, the CDS-PP presents a timid and presidential project, supporting a candidacy of a group of citizens only in the express will of the first candidate. It is clear: they fear to persist in CDS hosts the ticks of other times. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u71	To present the draft law of the CDS-PP, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Democracy, freedom, equality, pluralism, representativeness, approximation between voters and voters are the principles and values that the CDS calls for today for this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u73	So much? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u74	And that's all, that's all, it's all about the bill that we present in this House. Nothing else. It is not little, we know — it is enough — and it means a lot, but it is very little, in fact, what we believe must be changed. I explain and implement: the candidatures of groups of electorate citizens to the local authorities, enshrined in the law for 15 years and with increasing expression—not only in number of candidatures, but also in effective number of mandates—have put an end to the hegemony of popular representation by political parties in elections to local authorities. From there, voters have come to entrust their vote to citizens who, for one reason or another, some less attentive others have ceased to want, or did not want to have, direct connection to the parties, and these, as ostriches, cannot continue to bury their heads in the sand pretending not to see. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u75	in a time when the distrust of fat politicians and the remoteness and the disinterest of the citizens of politics and the public cause inevitably prevails, an achievement that is towards us all — democracy — is precisely us, politicians, who must take the next step. And the next step is not to push them away more and more, it is precisely the opposite, it is to open the doors and invite them to enter, again involving them, without fear. This, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is absolutely clear to the CDS. But what is also absolutely clear to the CDS is that democracy is not done without parties and that parties do not exist without democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u77	What is more, one thing is certain: we will certainly stop talking about democracy the day we ignore the society in which we live, the day we ignore what the voters expect, the day we ignore the expectations and hopes of the people we have to represent. What we defend and want is, after all, a more robust and complete model of democracy, where everyone falls.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u79	For this reason, he understood the CDS that was time to, after the experience of three troubled electoral processes regarding the acceptance of independent candidatures to the local bodies, revisit the law and refine it, in order to overcome the failures and distancings that have been found over the years. Failures and distancings, which inevitably ended up offending the principle of equality, accepting some applications and rejecting others under the same conditions. Formally, therefore, what is involved here is to prevent similar situations from being treated differently. Despite the CDS' understanding that the law currently in force requires no more than the indication of the name and wording of the group of electors for the formalization of the candidacy to the local bodies, the truth is that this understanding is not at all consensual, and even jurisprudence has not been able to remove differences of opinion in this matter. in which, and so that once and for all we can dispel any doubts, what we propose is that the law be changed in order to enshrine that the candidatures of groups of electors to local authorities are only and only, with the identification by the name, by the indication of the first candidate, by the logo and, of course, by the body to which the suffrage is submitted. It is only this that deals with this legislative initiative; it is only this which is enshrined in the law — an understanding that is not entirely innovative, but that is clear and unequivocal and that does no more than move away from different interpretations, which eventually include one and separate others by purely subjective criteria. And yet it is just this — this little — that allows us to comply with a greater principle, which is the democratic principle. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u80	To present the PS bill, Mrs. Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we discuss in this House a set of initiatives by the authorship of the Left Block, the CDS and the Socialist Party, which affect the Electoral Law of Local Authorities and which aim to simplify, clarify and make more proportionate, according to their subscribers, the requirements for the submission of candidatures by groups of electors to the local authorities. I therefore welcome all proposers on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group. This is always a relevant debate, since the strengthening of participatory and representative democracy mechanisms, particularly local democracy, are always a source of civilizational advancement. For the Socialist Party, the parties in the pluralistic expression of their ideas have been the great agents of the promotion and development of the democratic process. Without them democracy would not be possible. They went, they are, and they will be your master's trave. Political parties also play an important role in consolidating the democratic regime, shaping the architecture of the system in the happy weaving of an interdependence of powers that guarantees them the harmony of an important balance. But pluralist and representative democracy, an essential matrix of the system, must be improved with decisive contributions of participation and popular initiative. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the important changes introduced in the 1997 constitutional review meant an important deepening and enhancement of local democracy and the exercise of citizenship, which the Socialist Party has always recognized as fundamental to the enrichment of the quality of our democracy. Article 239. the, paragraph 4, of the Constitution thus sought to establish the opening of the political system for the renewal of political representation at local level and allowed the dynamisation of true political participation and mobilization that one wants citizen. In each autonomous election since 2001 there has been an increase in the number of candidatures of groups of citizens presented throughout the country, involving thousands of citizens, to whom voters also entrust their vote. However, the last electoral process was also marked by an undesirable and growing dispute in the courts, around the conditions for formalizing these candidatures of groups of citizens. In view of this reality, it is therefore considered appropriate and fair to weigh and evaluate the case-law concerned and to listen to the legitimate claims of the groups of citizens, subsequently and accordingly to a surgical review of the Electoral Act. That is the scope of our initiative. Firstly, the aim is essentially to address the need for simplification and clarification of the scheme. It is therefore proposed that, in relation to the candidature of groups of citizens, a simplified way of collecting signatures should be allowed, based on the linkage of candidates to a programmatic declaration and principles that will ensure their accession to the project subscribed by the proponents. At the same time, it is admitted that the replacement of candidates is not entailed by the reintroduction of these declarations with new signatures, provided that the replacement of the list-head is not concerned and that the number of substitute candidates does not exceed the minimum legal number of alternates. It is also used to change the system of designations and symbols in this law, allowing the candidatures of groups of citizens to be presented to votes using designation and symbol such as the parties and coalitions, rather than the Roman numeration as so far, applying the criteria currently provided for the political parties, properly adapted to this reality and to the necessary conditions. Finally, but no less important, in view of the current amendment of this electoral law, it appears equally relevant to the Socialist Party, in meeting its programmatic principles, to extend the application of the Parity Law to situations so far excluded from its scope, given the positive balance of its application and the clear opportunity to ensure its coverage in all municipalities and Fregues, because equality between men and women cannot wait. About 1069 parishes and 85 municipalities will become more equal and soon more democratic. Ladies and gentlemen, the bond of trust between citizens and politics reinforces, in our view, with a strong movement of political re-evaluation, as a place of affirmation of citizenship. The centre of the national debate on the great options for the future is Parliament, but this debate, in order to be an added area of citizenship, must be clear, accessible and transparent and it is legislating in a just way, with a vision of the future and without fear of the balanced opening of the system that we will establish new bridges of approach between electors and voters and will also be credible for political life and its agents. This debate is competing, we are sure, for that purpose. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u82	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we are not tired of getting rid of a confusion that is often established when appointing the candidatures of groups of citizens as independent candidates. It's important to get rid of this confusion. There is no certificate of independence for any citizen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u85	Therefore, in the candidatures of groups of elective citizens, we have everything. We have citizens without party affiliation, as, indeed, we have citizens without party affiliation on lists of parties and coalitions, as well as we have, in candidatures of groups of electorate citizens, citizens with party affiliation but who are disavowing with their parties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u86	That's probably more of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u87	...possibly because they have not been chosen to integrate their lists, and we also have local party structures hidden behind candidatures of voters... [[Congratulations from the PCP and PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares.]] ...and that they hide behind the anti-party discourse convinced that that's what you're giving.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u88	You're absolutely right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u89	Having said that, it is important to say that the right to submit candidatures by groups of electorate citizens is an unquestionable right, we never put it, nor question...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u90	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u91	... and we think that we should try to find a form of non-discrimination between the candidatures of groups of electorate citizens and the nominations of parties or coalitions. It is simply not what is proposed here today. What is proposed here is to create positive discrimination for groups of electorate citizens who discriminate negatively, in an objective way, the candidatures of parties and coalitions, and that is not acceptable for us. We recognize the right to submit candidatures by groups of electorate citizens, but we do not recognize these candidatures any moral superiority in relation to applications submitted by parties or coalitions. [[Congratulations on the PCP and on the PSD.]] However, the proposal that the nomination of a group of electorate citizens be replaced by the presentation of a sub-signed support for a candidate is not constitutionally qualified, because what the Constitution allows is the submission of candidatures of groups of electorate citizens, it is the group of citizens who apply, and there can be no group of citizens providing citizens—and that is indeed what is proposed here. The actual candidatures are not candidates for the presidency of the Republic, although in some cases it may even appear. But they're not, they're not applications. This is because if we accept this idea, the parties would not even need to apply, present the party, and say: "Well, then we will present a list." It can't be like that. The proposal made by the Socialist Party, that not only the candidate, as proposed by the CDS, would be sufficient to present a third, does not have any cabbage either. On the other hand, if we look at the constitutional case-law, which Mrs Susana Amador made in her report to 1. the Commission, cited, is very clear when, in relation to the right conferred by the Constitution, Article 239. , paragraph 4, states that « it follows that the subscription of candidates for election lists to a given local body does not correspond to a mere manifestation of support or agreement with the political project of a movement or group that wants to compete with local elections, before constituting the choice of the electors of the candidates to present. This is the constitutional case-law on the matter which we find absolutely clear and consistent with what the Constitution has in fact provided for in this matter. On the other hand, it does not seem to us that there is a regime of substitutions for candidates, because the parties cannot. Parties may only replace candidates in case of ineligibility considered by the court, because it is for the other cases, if there is a candidate from a party list or from a coalition of parties that desist, that there are alternate candidates. We cannot admit, in the groups of electorate citizens, contrary to what happens to parties or coalitions, that candidates can be replaced, because we would thus risk the list presented to be a fictitious list, which can then be replaced according to the conveniences or in accordance with the disadvantages that may arise along the way. These proposals would correspond to an unacceptable deviation, in our view contrary to the Constitution, of the possibility of manipulating the lists of groups of electors. Therefore, these initiatives do not count on our agreement. On the other hand, there is also a proposal that is announced in the project of the Block of Left, only in the preamble, because then it does not appear in the articulated, and although it does not appear, that it is the possibility of, submitted a candidature of groups of citizens to a municipality, this confers the automatic right to submit candidatures to the parish. Now, this has no cabbage, because the parish and the municipalities are different municipalities and there is no relationship of dependence on the parish in relation to the municipality. Therefore, this proposal, if it had been included in the joint, and although it was not in fact, would not have had our agreement in any way. Therefore, we can only welcome the fact that we know that the parties proposing these initiatives have called for their discharge to the committee without a vote, which we find to be very sensible, because, with regard to electoral laws, there should be no hasty legislative amendments which can create situations that are immediately contrary to the Constitution and unnecessary disturbance in the electoral process, either for the sovereign bodies or, in this particular case, for the local authorities. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PSD Members Joana Barata Lopes and Luís Marques Guedes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u92	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The topic brought to the debate today is not a minor issue. In fact, electoral laws are the real guarantors of democracy in which we want to live, because they guarantee the most noble value of democracy, which is the vote, which we want to promote, respect and follow. More fragile electoral laws weaken democracy, but if we have to be very careful in drawing up the original laws, we must have twice as much care when we intend to alter them. Having said this, and without lukewarmness, precisely for these reasons, we are dealing with various initiatives to amend the electoral law, which the PSD does not follow and reject. These proposals, all different, and all different in everything, have no prior weighting element but an email from an independent author. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u94	They are extemporaneous, they are levianas, they are counterproductive and I intend to prove it. [[PSD applause.]] If not, let us see: in mid-September, the President of the City Hall of Porto, Dr. Rui Moreira, directs, early in the morning, an e-mail to the chairmen of the parliamentary groups—at least to the PSD was so — where he carries, in the course of his sentence, his disagreement with the law in force since 2001, that—is to stop! — consider, and I quote, 'improvement of an independent candidacy, at least in larger municipalities', referring, in fact, to their intention to apply and adding 'but it happens that there is this contingency. » This veiled threat is a real legislative frenzy. The Left Block sets out the 2013 proposals; Mr. Provider's recommendation for 2010 — 2010! — it becomes very urgent; the CDS decides to make a living and comes with a proposal of three lines, but which, in spite of everything, must satisfy Rui Moreira ; and the PS, harassed, the party which unanimously supported and acclamation a candidature that did not even exist in the port, is excited and introduces 10 amendments, including the Parity Law. [[PSD applause.]] The evidence that anyone who laws by impulse, fear or political opportunism is closer to the ashtray is so clear, because the responsible consideration here was lacking that a subject of these should require. in this matter, of the absolute reservation of the Assembly of the Republic, Parliament and the political parties are hardly able for such blatant subservience and adulation,... [[PSD applause.]] ... which reveals two sentiments that democracy abhors: first, lack of respect for Parliament for itself and, secondly, much worse than that, poor awareness of political parties for being it itself, political parties. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u95	I'm sorry, but so noble is the public service of a camera president or an independent member as noble the public service of a camera president or a political party member. [[PSD applause.]] And the PSD — will ask-CL — are you satisfied? Do you understand that the law should not be altered? The PSD is a reformist party and at this point we pride ourselves on our journey and our past, but we do not accept to revise the law in this way, with authentic candidatures on the ground, half a dozen months of formal nominations and, if we forgive, the cash flow and with « custom facts», to solve circumstantial problems of re-election of those who have already been elected with this law. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u96	That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u97	Mrs. Members, "Lei Moreira"? Oh, my God! “ Law of Moreira ”? Oh, my God! Do we have to get to this? Oh, my God! In due time, PSD challenged PS and CDS for serious, deep and reflection on this topic. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u98	Do you want changes? Let's make changes, we're ready for this discussion, but not like that. Interestingly, with the now famous "mail Moreira" there is a contradiction in itself: the president elected by this law invokes that he cannot be elected with this Law; the president who threatens not to apply for this law has already announced that he will apply for this law. What if he loses the elections? Do you revert to her? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u99	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u100	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this mess serves no one: it doesn't serve democracy, it doesn't serve Parliament, it doesn't serve parties and it doesn't even serve Rui Moreira. In fact, if all the proposals are approved, and some are contradictory, Rui Moreira will not be able to apply for the name « Rui Moreira : Porto, our party ». And this one, shall we? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we should not be afraid of the shadows, nor should we look suspiciously at those who are involved in political life outside the parties, with nominees of citizens, because they help to make democracy and to extend the possibilities of citizens' choice, but we cannot also give in to the populism of the moment or, worse, to the feeling that they are the best who can serve the people or that they, and only them, hold the monopoly of competence, seriousness and nobleness of those who are in the public service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u101	Democracy without the participation of independent citizens would be poorer, but without parties would be dead. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u102	For a second intervention, Mrs Susana Amador is registered. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, I would like to say that the Socialist Party does not accept any kind of lessons and references to political opportunism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u104	We don't admit it! We have a signed and consolidated heritage within the framework of participatory democracy and representative democracy, and we have always been in line with initiatives that have come to strengthen that same democracy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u105	Secondly, in the Electoral Programme of the Socialist Party and in the Government Programme, we have as programmatic objective to improve the quality of democracy, and this project competes for this design. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u106	Thirdly, I want to say that we have not agreed on some of these solutions now. In 2013, in a debate held in this Chamber, we expressed openness to the issue of symbols and designations and to other improvements and advances that the law could have. I also want to tell Mr António Filipe that, as I have already said in my speech, political parties are in fact decisive in the weaving of the democratic system, in the consolidation of the regime and we no longer use these types of applications, but we do not devalue them either. What we have as solutions seems to us to be balance solutions, solutions that aim, above all, to compete to eliminate many doubts of interpretation, many inequalities that have occurred throughout the country, up to the level of interpretation of the jurisprudence of the courts, and therefore are solutions to improve the environment around this process. The expertise assessment will allow us to debug, improve and dispel any doubts. I am sure that we will find the best solutions here so that we can move this process forward and, again, participatory democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u107	by the CDS-PP, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is what it is. It is not what you want, what you want or what you do well to do about it; it is just, and only, what it is. And what is this debate? It is knowledge of the will of each parliamentary group of each political party, having a situation that objectively transforms a discrimination of equal opportunities between party candidatures and independent candidatures, in order to correct and know whether or not it is worth correcting. There are those who think so, like us, like the Left Block and like the PS, and there are those who think no, like the PCP and the PSD. This debate is about whether or not we should seek a consensus solution that will allow this. It is not a debate for melancholy reflections on independent candidatures—for example, I heard from Mr.António Filipe, who thought it was about Sines, not so little is a debate to make adjustments to accounts and regret difficulties in understanding and finding a candidate for a chamber as important as that of the Port, as was the case with the PSD. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u109	It is a debate, simply and simply, only for this: to know whether or not we should, with discrimination, resolve this discrimination. And at the end of the debate, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is appropriate to ask: who is afraid of what? Who's afraid of civic participation? Who's afraid of citizens? Who is afraid of the Ombudsman? Who's afraid of democracy? There is a second opportunity for three parliamentary groups. Let us wait for the debate in committee. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u110	Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : what is really about here is to comply with the Constitution's determinations, particularly when it was revised in 1997, i.e. to provide equality principles, principles of proportionality in relation to the candidatures of independent citizens. The Left Block brings nothing new, which brings a reaffirmation of what it brought in 2012 and which was discussed in 2013. That is what is being discussed here. We realize that the PSD does not like democracy, does not like the local democratic power. And why? Because you attacked him during the previous government, through that legislation that we know, "reducing dust" more than 1 thousand parishioners. That is why the PSD does not like to talk about democratic local power, particularly independent citizens' applications. in this specific case, we welcome, as I said, the proposals of the Socialist Party. As for the CDS proposal, we understand that it has a presidentialist attitude that we do not communicate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u112	With no further inscriptions, we conclude the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 308 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE ), 318 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) and 328 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PS ). We move on to the next point, which is part of the discussion of draft resolution No 491/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the budgetary allocation of the Rural Development Programme ( CDS-PP ). To present the draft resolution, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The agricultural sector has experienced a strong dynamism in recent years which has resulted in a significant increase in export-reflecting production and also a substantial reduction in external deficit. For this reason, the former Government, PSD / CDS, decided to strengthen the national component of the Rural Development Programme (RDP) from 15 % to 20 % so as to increase the total volume of public expenditure available to the sector because we believe that this is a productive investment, employment generator and that it has a direct return to the economy, and the facts show that we are right. The current government did not understand that. It gave priority to the 35-hour replacement, the faster return on income and withdrew the reprogramming we had submitted to the European Commission in a clear devaluation of the agricultural sector. It is now confirmed that it was a wrong option. in the projects currently under consideration, of the second notice, still of 2015, the allocation of the competitions is proving insufficient to respond to the demand for investment by the sector. Therefore, the selection criteria that were defined are becoming, in a way, discriminatory for some sectors of activity. That is why we are presenting this draft resolution in order to strengthen the money affects this competition to cover a greater number of farmers and thus cancel discrimination, in some way negative, which was not in the spirit of the legislator. We also call on the Government to reform the RDP by strengthening the five additional percentage points of the national component in a clear bet in the agricultural sector, which we believe. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u114	Mr António Borges has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We already knew the enormous irresponsibility of the previous government at the 2020 PDR, but it is not surprising that we are now confirming this situation again, one can imagine, on the initiative of the CDS. The previous government has always subtracted everything: in resources, rights and policies that make life easier for businesses and citizens, particularly in the most disadvantaged regions. This was also the case in the Rural Development Programme. Until January 2016, no investment contracts had been concluded, only agri-environmental measures had been paid which, as is publicly known, created a budget hole of about 200 million euros, which the current Minister of Agriculture had to face. This does not correspond to the reality, because it does not correspond to specific facts, whether the previous Government has reprogramming approved by the European Commission or its own Ministry of Finance, nor does it correspond to the reality that the current Government has not safeguarded the necessary budgetary availability to support investment in the sector. What actually happened before was exactly the opposite. When they started their duties, the co-financing rate was 25 %, in 2012 they reduced it to 15 %, two years later, in 2014 they requested it to be 0 % to an amount of around EUR 500 million. thus, the allocation in the State budget increased from EUR 140 million in 2010 to EUR 65 million in 2015. Objectively, the former Government reduced the available allocation for investment by more than EUR 300 million. Now, adopting this draft resolution that the CDS presents to us, for all similar situations, would be concerned with an additional budget provision of almost 500 million euros, which is absolutely paradoxical and irresponsible!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u117	But it is quite clear what this initiative represents and what it means: to whiten a unclear past from a political point of view and to whiten a somewhat rigid past from the point of view of the implementation of the Community framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u118	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u119	But he says more: apparently, the CDS does not believe to arrive so early to the government, because otherwise it would not present proposals like these. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two years after the start of this Programme, about 5000 investment projects are finally being approved, representing a global value of EUR 648 million in investment in the agricultural sector and in the national economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u120	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u121	I'm done now, Madam President. For all this, the trust of farmers in a programme which has had serious problems in its start-up is being restored. A trust that is built with budgetary rigour, with the resources available, without selling illusions, as happened to the previous minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u122	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PDR 2020 was designed by the previous government, mainly under the guidance of the CDS, the party now presenting here a draft resolution to change what had already been proud to have done. The party that in time self-proclaimed the farm party made a program designed to channel the money available for large agriculture and, in particular, for large rent farms. It has thus left out the vast majority of the country's agricultural holdings, i.e. the small farmers, who are, as a whole, the most producing in absolute values. As always, they survive alone without the help they deserve. Much of the RDP measures drawn up in the previous government are distorted by the reality of our country. For example, there is no appropriate measure in the RDP for small family farming, a very important pillar in agriculture. at this time, the measure dedicated to small investments, managed through local development associations, is having little adherence in the North and the Center of the Country, precisely because it is not appropriate to the needs of the small farms in those regions. In addition, in support of the installation of young farmers there was a decline, providing that the financing was determined on the basis of the amount of the investment... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... and even increased in case of accession to a producer organisation, an OP, option of the CDS that was against the previous philosophy of the installation premium. This premium was intended for the survival of the farmer and his family during the first few years, because we do not forget that there are cultures that only after a few years begin to produce in quantity that enables us to make some money. But according to the CDS tax in the previous Ministry of Agriculture, it now eats much more than the small one. This discrimination of the smallest is unfair. It was a huge step back in supporting the installation of young farmers. in order to support investment in the agricultural holding referred to in this draft resolution once again the increase of 20 % for producer organisations is also only for the larger ones; the smaller ones remain out. This is a problem because the legislation that allows the recognition of associations and cooperatives as producer organisations is so restrictive that it leaves out the vast majority of farmers, especially the smaller ones. Even many basic cooperatives, in which producers are organised, have insufficient size to ensure their recognition as OP. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do not propose more than that. Agriculture needs funding, it is true, but not this way, that it would be more of the same as ever. We are available to support a review and amendment of the RDP to make it more adaptable to Portuguese agriculture. This implies, without failing to support the most competitive farms, moving forward with a fairer programme, which must contain effective measures for small farms and incentives to organise these producers. We are not going to go on this path that is proposed to us today! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u124	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are debating today a CDS initiative to recommend to the Government that it continue to waste taxpayers' money in the intensive livestock sector. The draft resolution of the CDS even begins well, stating that the Rural Development Programme was designed on the basis of the need, among other things, to ensure conditions for improving the sustainable management of resources (water, soil, energy and biodiversity) and ensuring its preservation. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, intensive livestock and sustainability are incompatible! To continue to support a private sector that operates in a market economy, of free initiative like the others, and whose enormous environmental impacts are paid by all of us is absolutely irresponsible and represents an obsolete view of agricultural policy! What does the CDS have to say about the environmental devastation caused by pig husbandry? And what does he propose about illegal livestock operating in our country? And what do you think about the enormous health impacts resulting from the consumption of red and processed meat? What about the high greenhouse gas emissions in this sector? Today, the CDS is still voting with a congratulation, one can imagine, by the national success of combating climate change, referring that Portugal is at the forefront of combating this problem. Because it's not just like it's still getting worse by subsidizing polluting industries, as is the case with the pig business. According to Eurostat data, Portugal was one of the few countries that increased greenhouse gas emissions between 1990 and 2014, increased 9 % when the European average has decreased by 20 %, Mrs. And this, without taking into account the field of land use and forests that we are debating here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u126	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss another project of bleaching the action of the self-proclaimed farm party. The CDS now aims to promote changes to the 2020 RDP, after scandalous use of this Programme in the service of its strategy. The authors of the initiative state, and I quote, "that the criteria for selection of applications, for such high disparity between supply and demand, have become discriminatory between the various sectors of activity, excluding sectors such as intensive livestock or floriculture, for example". However, it happens that whoever defined the regulatory framework of these notices was the previous Government, PSD / CDS. If they are distorted by the reality and needs of the sectors, the responsibility lies with the CDS and the PSD and, in particular, with the current leader of the CDS and its team in the Ministry of Agriculture. It was the political options of these parties that led to this situation. Options that had only one goal: the elections of 4 October 2015. It is that the CDS managed the full implementation of the PDR 2020 as a political propaganda instrument, whose timetable was conditioned by the legislative elections,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u128	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u129	...and for this he produced legislation to the horse mackerel, opened contests and notices and now, past the elections, comes the CDS recognises that its criteria are discriminatory. You need to get out of the way! The CDS ruled the Ministry of Agriculture at the service of major interests and of agribusiness, channelled funds to large companies with export capacity, in order to balance the agri-food balance. And despite the promotion of superintensive and unsustainable production, despite the decrease in consumption, this deficit was only reduced by 13 %. It should also be borne in mind that the CDS now considers money to be important for the forest and for the irrigation sector, but it was precisely these sectors that cut 200 million euros in the PRODER ( Rural Development Programme ), which has hardly reached the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u130	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u131	Another claim that the CDS makes in this project is that, with this financial reinforcement, the sector would have a greater volume of funding to leverage the investment further. This claim implies that the increase in the national participation of the programme will be to strengthen investment support measures, which is not true. This falsity is proven by the financial reprogramming which the previous Government delivered to Brussels. A reprogramming related to the hole in agri-environmental measures, resulting from a conscious subordination, since the previous Government was alerted to this. The way the aid was designed, with the possibility of accumulations, without being ceilinged, led, for example, to the superintensive olive tree receiving aid of €900 per hectare. This preference of the CDS for large holdings is well visible in the increase in payments from 2014 to 2015 in regions such as Alentejo. That is why, before injecting money, you need to know where it will be destined. The CFP has never opposed the strengthening of support for the agricultural sector — it has proposed several times — but it believes that, with strengthening, it is discussed where it will be applied. in this situation, this financial reinforcement will mainly serve to increase the inequalities between small and large farms, between minifundio and latifundio. We know that this is the essence of the CDS, but it does not count on the PCP for such a claim. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u132	You have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During the discussion of the State budget for 2016, we warned that there were no funds in the RDP. In fact, what has this Government, in particular this Minister of Agriculture, done? Not only did he not keep the funds that existed in the past, and I remember that he had a national participation of EUR 100 million, as he did not strengthen — and the former Government asked Brussels for the reprogramming sent to the European Commission the national participation of EUR 140 million — and even reduced national participation to EUR 65 million. In other words, this government has invested in agriculture. However, the consequence of this disinvestment is the lack of money in the RDP. In addition, we can see that there is a lack of money in the RDP through two very clear indicators: first, investment and support measures for young farmers have been closed since the beginning of the year—they are closed, they have not opened this year. Thus, a sector that was exporting, creating wealth and creating jobs does not have the support of the government — in fact, this is already the mark of this government. This government has a very clear mark: to everything that is running well or taxing or cutting the legs. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u134	So, is anyone surprised that economic growth is less than half as planned by you? Oh, my God! No one admires this! Therefore, objectively, you cannot make a clear bet on agriculture. The second indicator, of course, has to do with the following: the justification of this Government for not having the support measures in force is that the former Government had the measures in continuous, open, both of the PRODER and of the PDR, and therefore it is not justified to be opening new applications. In other words, they are apologizing to the success of the previous government. But then, if we are to see the implementation of the RDP this year, it is 3 %. In fact, if we go to the PDR website, we verify that this government has executed 3 % by September 2016. Do you know that this is a third of what was executed by the previous government in the same period? How do you make the bet on agriculture, if you carry out a third of what was approved by the previous government? Then we all heard the Minister of Agriculture say: "The execution of the PDR went very badly, we have to change the manager of the PDR." So what happens now with a 3 % execution, with closed applications and payments that are not made to farmers? Oh, my God! We simply go to the regional directions, we simply consult the IFAP (Instituto de Financing de Agriculture e Pescas ) to conclude that farmers are not receiving the money, that there is no investment in agriculture. There is no investment in agriculture because you did not wager in agriculture, you took money from farmers. Therefore, it makes sense to have a reinforcement, but we have already examined the State Budget for 2017 and we have found that there is virtually no reinforcement. In 2016 you bet on a sum of EUR 65 million and then put some deposit money, and there is no such money. We warned you that there would be no money on the PDR. It is absolutely regrettable what you are doing to the country, to an activity sector that was giving a clear sign of investment, export, job creation. The Minister of Agriculture has no political force. It did not have it in 2016 and does not have it in 2017 either. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u135	For the last speech of the debate, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos for having mentioned some of the things I wanted to say here. however, I cannot fail to tell Mr António Borges, who accused the CDS of irresponsibility and of presenting only these proposals for not wanting to be government, that the proposal we presented is exactly what we did in 2011 when we arrived at the government. In 2011 the former PS Government left a huge set of applications for investment in the PRODER for approval due to a lack of budget allocation. And what did the previous government do when it started office? He rescheduled, reinforced that competition and came to approve a huge set of applications — those that had eligibility, of course. So what we are proposing in this draft resolution is just what we did when we arrived at the government and which, in fact, proved to result from what happened in the sector. When you talk about co-financing rates, you are missing the truth, because you know very well that we went from 25% to 15% because we were in adjustment. Therefore, the PSD/CDS government did not subtract in everything, added in everything. In fact, throughout the years of our governance, we have put more than EUR 100 million in the RDP, which you have not achieved, because you have made other choices. In addition to having made other options, the Minister for Agriculture, as mentioned above, did not have the political power to guarantee in the agricultural sector a higher amount of money for investment support. As far as small agriculture is concerned, it is not true that small agriculture has not been supported. In fact, there was a huge set of support for small agriculture: either the small farming regime; or the flat-rate VAT regime; or investment support for small investments. And for those farmers who are not competitive, nor will they ever be, there are support measures in disadvantaged areas. With regard to sustainability, I would like to leave a note to Mr André Silva, saying that sustainability is not just an environment, Mr. Sustainability has an environmental aspect, has a social aspect and also has an economic aspect. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u137	And Mr President, I am sorry to say, just look at one of the aspects, and therefore you are not talking about sustainability.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u138	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u139	I shall conclude by referring to the implementation rate of the RDP. When the current government criticises a 12 % RDP implementation rate and, after all, was 14 %, with all the regulations to be implemented, when, at the end of two years, the implementation rate is 18 %, almost one year after socialist governance, and farmers do not invest, do not submit payment applications, Mr. Members, something strange is happening in the agricultural sector, which has so much invested, that so much dynamism has impressed the Portuguese economy and is now so bad. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u140	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the debate on draft resolution No 491 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). On our agenda, the motions for resolutions Nos 17 / XIII ( 1 ) have not been allocated time for discussion. ( a ) — Approves the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the State of Israel, of the other part, signed in Luxembourg on 10 June 2013 and 20 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on the European Satellite Navigation Programmes, signed in Brussels on 18 December 2013. in the same way, to the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2017, no time was allocated for discussion either. As a last item on our agenda, we have the text of the European Committee on European Affairs initiative — under the Green Card procedure (strengthened political dialogue), which recommends that the European Commission promote, closely monitor and monitor the correct and effective implementation of the instruments and mechanisms created for cooperation in the field of taxation, more effectively addressing tax evasion, replacing draft resolutions 300 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of the Community legal framework in order to increase transparency in financial transactions ( PSD ), 317 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends strengthening and deepening of European coordination and action on transparency in the field of taxation and financial transactions ( PS ) and 362 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to increase the coordination of European action in the area of tax transparency and the fight against tax evasion ( CDS-PP ). This text will be presented by Mrs Regina Ramos Bastos, as Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, available for 3 minutes. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the time of the presentation of its programme, the current presidency of the European Commission expressed the desire to improve the Commission's liaison with national parliaments « as a way to bring the European Union closer to citizens ». It was in this spirit of openness that the parliamentary chambers of the Union, with the strong commitment of the Assembly of the Republic, discussed possible alternatives to the mechanisms of participation already provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon. One of the alternatives is the one which has taken the designation ‘green card’ and which is part of the framework for strengthening political dialogue and inter-parliamentary cooperation. The novelty is that parliaments are no longer limited to reacting negatively to the Commission's initiatives. on the contrary, by means of a « green card », it is the national parliaments which, together and in a constructive and cooperative spirit, submit proposals to the Commission to promote initiatives in areas of interest of the Member States and which they believe should be developed and implemented by the legislative engine which is the European Commission. The inclusion of food waste in the circular economy package, which is part of the Commission's work programme for this year, is an example of the success of this new approach, resulting from a proposal addressed to the Commission in a letter signed by 16 national parliaments, including the Assembly of the Republic. It was the first « green card » concluded so far, but it has already enabled the success of this new form of national parliaments to influence the development of European Union legislation and policies. Another 'green card' initiative still under way was presented by the French National Assembly on the social responsibility of companies and to which the Assembly of the Republic has already expressed its intention to join. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is in this context, and in a constructive perspective of using this new approach at the level of national parliaments, which now presents a text to replace projects relating to combating aggressive or abusive tax planning practices, as well as tax evasion and evasion presented first by the PSD Parliamentary Group and then by the PS Parliamentary Groups and the CDS-PP. The reality of the facts demonstrates the inability of each country individually to impose certain more virtuous standards and practices on the scrutiny of capital movements in the global economy. Europe, however, has the political and economic dimension and relevance to lead this process in seeking fairer taxation. The adoption of this draft resolution by the Assembly of the Republic is one of the steps being taken, in order to raise awareness of other national parliaments about the need for measures capable of introducing consensualised practices and which places this Assembly and the representatives of the Portuguese people at the heart of the expression of political will to achieve the aim so targeted by citizens of a fairer and more transparent taxation and thus to satisfy taxpayers, companies and investment. We are deeply convinced that this unpublished and innovative initiative of the Assembly of the Republic will be a major contribution to strengthening the European project. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President of the Committee on European Affairs. We shall therefore enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 204 presences, to which eight are added, of the Members. Deputies Catarina Martins, of BE, José Luís Ferreira, of Os Verdes, Sérgio Sousa Pinto, António Borges, José Rui Cruz and Luís Moreira Testa, of PS, Sandra Pereira and José Pedro Aguiar-Branco, of PSD, making 212 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start with a moment that's sad for all of us. I call on Ms. Secretary Idália Salvador Serrão to proceed with the reading of vote No 144 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of José Lello ( PS and PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u143	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « José Manuel Lello Ribeiro de Almeida died last October 14, in Porto, where he was born in 1944 and to which he remained indelibly linked throughout his existence. José Lello lived his life in full, lending the best of himself, both to the Socialist Party, that he was a leader, either to the country, through the positions and functions he performed : Member of the Assembly of the Republic throughout successive legislatures, from 1983 to 2015, Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities in the XIII and XIV Constitutional governments, Minister of Youth and Sport in the XIV Constitutional Government and President of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, functions that constitute frameworks in the public life of José Lello, where he rightly pointed out. Confident defender of Parliament and the dignity of the parliamentary function, he exercised it with particular denotation with the National Defence Commission, where he stood out and of which he was Vice-President, and was also elected Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party and President of the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic. throughout his political life he was distinguished at national and international level, having received decorations from countries such as France, Belgium, Morocco, Mexico, Venezuela, Brazil, Greece, Spain, while still highlighting the Great Cruz of the Order of the Child D. Henrique, attributed by the Portuguese Republic. Man deeply in love with Porto, José Lello was an undisturbed figure of the city that saw him as an athlete and leader of the Boavista Soccer Club and served as an author, between 1976 and 1989, in the position of deputy in the Municipal Assembly, and whose table came to integrate, under the presidency of the historic António Macedo. In addition to an unusual capacity for work and dedication to the causes in which he believed, José Lello was also characterized by an avid and accumulating sense of humor, which used many times as an instrument in his political and public activity, which he noted and made him one of the Portuguese parliamentarians to enjoy greater fame in recent decades. José Lello was a man of affections, frontal, loyal, from which he transhipped a huge taste for life, together with a very strong sense of freedom he exercised with particular masters, living a full life, the life he wanted, a life he never gave up to guide himself courageously by the rule of his own thought. The Assembly of the Republic shares the deep pain and sharp sense of loss that the disappearance of José Lello caused in his family and friends and addresses them with the deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u144	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I am making the most difficult of my speeches right now, the intervention I never wanted to make. in the last few days, much has been said and written about José Lello, but I keep forever what may have been the most assertive of the phrases: « He died the antithesis of death». José Lello was exactly that, it was the antithesis of death, for the passion he put into everything he did, in all he lived, for the feelings he shared. José Lello leaves, forever, an indelible mark in the history of the early years of democratic consolidation in Porto, where, next to Antonio Macedo, Mário Cal Brandão and Beatriz Cal Brandão, he strengthened and served the affirmation of the Socialist Party. It is also marked in our memory by the way in which it was devoted to parliamentary activity, its acquitting humor, its sense of freedom and the extremely courageous way that it has often fled to the politically correct. If it is true that we disappear only when we disappear from the memory of others, José Lello will live eternally in our memory as a good man, a righteous man, a free man, a fraternal man, a socialist of all times and a Democrat of all times. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u146	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote No 144 / XIII ( 2. ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we now turn to vote No 140 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Greetings for the European Day of Combating Human Trafficking ( PS, PSD, CDS-PP, BE, PCP and Os Verdes ), which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u147	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "The European Commission established 18 October as the European Day of Combating Human Trafficking with a view to raising awareness of the serious violation of human rights that constitutes the crime of trafficking in human beings, a modern and despicable form of slavery. According to the UN ( United Nations ), around 2 million people are trafficked and 80 % of these are women victims of sexual trafficking. And, with the current refugee flow, UNICEF estimates that about half a million children are at risk of being trafficked. Being a reality that is not recent, it has assumed increasingly worrying proportions worldwide. Trafficking in persons is one of the most lucrative illegal forms in the world. ILO data ( International Labour Organisation ) estimates that human trafficking moves around EUR 30 billion per year. This is a complex transnational phenomenon whose root causes are poverty, inequalities between men and women, violence against women, armed conflicts, lack of social integration, opportunities for employment and access to education, child labour and discrimination. The general framework of the European Union's migration policy stresses the importance of cooperation with countries of origin, transit and destination and considers that the prevention and reduction of irregular immigration and trafficking in human beings is one of its four pillars. In Portugal, combating all forms of discrimination and gender-based violence is a political priority. We were pioneers in the ratification of the Council of Europe's Convention against Human Trafficking, which incorporates an unequivocal definition of the victim of trafficking with a high relevance to human rights. As UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said, ‘traffickers attack the most desperate and vulnerable. To end this inhuman practice, we must do more than protect migrants and refugees from those who want to exploit them. We must manage migration safely and rightly based, create sufficient and accessible routes for entry and dealing with the root causes of conflicts. ’ The Assembly of the Republic welcomes the European Day against Human Trafficking, reaffirming the commitment to the eradication of this scourge for the protection of human rights. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u148	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is the vote No 141 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the national success in combating climate change ( CDS-PP and PSD ), which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u149	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Climate change is a reality. Average temperatures have been rising, precipitation patterns are changing from year to year, glaciers and snow are melting at a worrying rate and the average seawater level is rising. The impacts and vulnerabilities with regard to nature, economics and health differ between regions, territories and economic sectors, and it is hoped that extreme climate phenomena will become more frequent and intense, which will further enhance the occurrence of natural tragedies, such as floods and droughts. On 18 this month, the National Institute of Statistics revealed data on the Economic and Environmental Indicators — Air Emissions Account — 1995 - 2014. The following indicators are highlighted : in 2014, the global warming potential decreased by 0, 4 %, acidification by 1, 7 % and tropospheric ozone formation by 2, 0 %, despite the growth in economic activity (gross value added at base prices increased by 0, 4 % by volume ) ; also in 2014, the share of renewable energy showed a new historical peak of 61, 4 % ; in 2013 Portugal presented the fifth lowest global warming potential per capita of the European Union. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the fact that the indicators now known confirm that Portugal is at the forefront of combating these threats that constitute one of the greatest environmental, social and economic threats facing the planet and humanity today'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u150	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the PCP and abstentions of the PS, BE, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u151	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u152	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u153	Mr President, it is to announce that we are going to deliver to the Bureau a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u154	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u155	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u156	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u157	Mr President, it is also to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u158	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to vote No 142 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning bombings to the Syrian city of Aleppo ( PSD ). At the request of the PCP, each parliamentary group will have 2 minutes to intervene. But, first, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u159	Mr President, when there is discussion, there is no reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u160	Mr President, no reading of the vote works for all those who have already read it. I think the vote should be read, the speeches made and then the vote. This is the order of factors. In the meantime, the Bureau was informed that the proponents were not reading the vote. Therefore, we can move on to the interventions, giving the floor to Mr Paulo Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party calls for this vote on the current situation in Syria in general and in Aleppo in particular. We cannot fail to denounce what is happening in Syria right now. The situation is absolutely unacceptable, it is a deplorable and truly condemnable situation. What we, as an international community, have seen in what is happening in Syria is love. Just look at the numbers they speak for themselves: almost 400 000 Syrians have already died in this war and there are more than 6 million refugees. The difficulty that international civil population aid organisations have in reaching the ground is absolutely unacceptable. The international community cannot accept this feeling of total impunity that lives in Syria. This is unacceptable! Therefore, the PSD, in a very clear way with the presentation of this vote, defends an immediate ceasefire in Syria, a solid peace agreement with international mediation, helps immediately to the entire Syrian population and, finally, but no less important, that they are clearly responsible for all those who are responsible for this intolerable, deplorable and unacceptable situation. This is the purpose of this vote, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u162	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We express our firmest condemnation of the aggression against Syria, solidarity with the Syrian people and their resistance and struggle to defend peace, in defense of their most fundamental rights, in defense of their homeland, in defense of their country. Peace in Syria calls for the end of support for mercenary groups and their terrorist action against the Syrian people, calls for the end of external aggression, demands respect for the rights of the Syrian people, demands respect for the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Syrian Arab Republic, requires respect for the principles of the United Nations Charter and international legality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u165	For more than six years the Syrian Arab Republic and its people have been victims of a systematic act of interference, a cruel war of aggression imposed and promoted by the United States, France, the United Kingdom, Israel, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Qatar, among others,... [[Protests by PSD Deputies Duarte Filipe Marques and Antonio Leitão Amaro.]] ...and the groups of mercenaries who created it, finance and arm and who are responsible for the brutal violation of the rights of the Syrian people, of human rights, of the most heinous crimes, of millions of displaced persons and refugees and for the destruction of that country. We bear in mind that, in the same sense of this vote, others were presented over time, encouraging and conviving with the war of aggression to Iraq, that we still remember the Lajes Summit in 2003, or the war of aggression to Libya, with its inconceivable role of death, suffering and destruction we know.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u167	Wars of aggression against Iraq and Libya, which, like the one that is now being moved against Syria, constitute genuine crimes, which, as has been denounced and recognized, are supported by campaigns of manipulation and by lies, campaigns that point to the victims as cottons and the real cottons as victims. The pretext for legitimate feelings arising from the humanitarian drama in Syria, the vote presented by the PSD silences and thus encourages the actions carried out by the groups of mercenaries and by the countries that support the aggression against Syria and the Syrian people. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u168	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS condemns the successive bombings of the city of Aleppo, regrets the civil losses that have caused and the destruction of fundamental infrastructures for the population that has resulted there. It therefore calls for the resumption of the truce between the parties to the Syrian confrontation and for a peaceful solution to the conflict that respects human rights and international law. We therefore send our condolences and solidarity to the Syrian people, particularly to the inhabitants of Aleppo, and we hope that those responsible can also be identified. That is all this is — and it is not little — which will be voted on and therefore it is important to create real conditions so that the mediators, the United States and Russia, can find the best solutions without more or less delirious political use as we have just heard. Moreover, it must be the people, these people, Aleppo and Syria, who must be the center of our attention, and not declarations or political options and much less old alliances. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u170	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block follows what is written in the vote, presented by the PSD, more than what has been said by the PSD Parliamentary Group on this matter. We are in solidarity with the Syrian people, who are the victims of the bombings, the victim of the geopolitical disputes, and this solidarity will never be at stake, even in the space of the political debate that exists in this House. We are in solidarity with the victims of the bombings, but also with the refugees who flee from the bombings, so we do not forget those who are used in Turkey, the result of the policy that the European Union is taking, often in favour of the Turkish regime, and the European Union uses Turkey as a buffer to prevent these refugees from having the solidarity that is due them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u173	There are no two types of solidarity, as there are no two types of victims of this war: those who remain in Syria and those who have already had to flee Syria. For us, they are all victims of the same war, victims of the same scourge and therefore we do not understand how for some there is solidarity here and for others there is rejection and European insensitivity, also carried out by the support of some sides of this Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u174	For an intervention, Mr José Miguel Medeiros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party, of course vehemently condemns—rather, in line with its humanist tradition and the peace and human rights party—the conflict, everything that is happening, the enormous humanitarian tragedy we are witnessing. And there are no good bombings and bad bombings here, they're all bad, it's obvious, as has already been said by some of my predecessors in the use of the word. We must therefore follow this situation and, from my point of view - and allow me to bring here the words of the newly elected UN Secretary-General, our compatriot Antonio Guterres, when he says that this is the priority of priorities - this must be the priority of the international community, in order to put an end to this tragedy which shames us all and shames the civilization that we are proud of wanting to build and that we often cite as an example, which is the mother of the universal charter of human rights and of many other principles that we have proclaimed and that we want to defend. The Socialist Party therefore associates itself with this vote in the generic sense of condemnation of all the conflict, with all the victims, whether the fatal victims are the refugees, of all that humanitarian tragedy that occurs there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u176	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 142 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] It is as follows: « Vote No 142/ XIII Condemning the bombings to the Syrian city of Aleppo in recent months, more than three hundred civilians died, of which about 50 children, following successive bombings to the city of Aleppo, in northern Syria, being the situation in the city considered by the Doctors without Borders to be ‘dantesque’ in the face of the violence and frequency of the bombings it has been targeted, demanding the organization of ‘all countries involved in the conflict and the international community that civilians are respected and that international humanitarian law is complied with’. The bombings affected about 250,000 inhabitants who are trapped in the eastern neighborhoods of the city, causing dozens of dead and hundreds of wounded who run to hospitals who do not have the conditions to receive them because of the attacks they have also suffered. Some sources indicate that in July, the eight hospitals operating in the city suffered 23 attacks. There are also reports of bombings of support structures for the civilian population, including drinking water stations, markets, shops, schools and bus stations, beyond residential areas, leaving the city with truly deplorable living conditions. Since 2011 the Syrian conflict has already caused more than 300,000 deaths and millions of displaced persons and refugees and the international community cannot continue to watch this situation without doing anything to prevent it. The European Council even refers to the practice of war crimes, which must be investigated and condemned without ambiguities. It is essential that the two mediators of the conflict, USA and Russia, arrive at an understanding that allows us to resume the truce in the Syrian conflict and end this bloodbath. The Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary shall decide: 1 — Condemning successive bombings in the city of Aleppo for the terrible civil losses that have caused and the destruction of fundamental infrastructure for the population; 2 — Call for the resumption of the truce between the parties in conflict in Syria and for a peaceful solution to the conflict that respects human rights and international law; 3 — Send our condolences and solidarity to the Syrian people and, in particular, to the inhabitants of Aleppo who have suffered this most recent wave of bombings. 4 — Call for the identification of those responsible for these acts of barbarity and for the trial of those acts. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u177	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to vote No 143 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Solidarity with the need to put an end to the blockade of the United States of America in the Republic of Cuba ( PCP, PS, BE, The Greens, PSD and CDS-PP ). I ask Secretary Idália to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The United Nations General Assembly will vote next week for the twenty-fifth time on a resolution on the need to put an end to the blockade imposed by the United States of America against Cuba. In 2015, this resolution, which counted on the favourable vote of the Portuguese State, was adopted with 191 votes in favour and 2 votes against. This blockade, which has been condemned by the generality of the countries of the world and the Portuguese political forces, continues to have a profound impact on the economy of Cuba and is the biggest obstacle to the development of that country. The blockade of Cuba is more than a bilateral problem between Cuba and the United States, as the extraterritorial nature of the blockade affects third countries. in recent times significant steps have been taken to normalize relations between the United States and Cuba and steps have been taken to mitigate some of the consequences of the blockade. However, the blockade remains in effect and continues to be demanding its cessation, a goal reiterated by President Barack Obama during his recent trip to Cuba. Discussions are also taking place with a view to the conclusion of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between Cuba and the European Union, which presupposes the repeal of the European Union's 1996 Common Position on Cuba. in these terms, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 21 October 2016 : 1 — It is in favour of the cessation of the United States embargo on Cuba and urges the Portuguese Government to defend in the United Nations General Assembly the need to put an end to this unjustified situation; 2 — Calls for the conclusion of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between Cuba and the European Union to be repealed by the Common Position on Cuba taken by the European Union in 1996 and calls on the Portuguese Government to make efforts to normalize relations between the European Union and the Republic of Cuba ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u179	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of vote No 145 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the national success achieved in combating climate change and the energy, environment and climate policies of recent years ( PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « From year to year, climate change is a reality and its impact is felt daily in an increasingly evident way. Portugal is one of the countries that suffers the most and most in the future will suffer the impacts of climate change, it has been one of the countries that has worked and developed in recent years—and that has more required others to follow this ambitious action—in climate and energy policies, in combating climate change, but also in placing on renewable energy and electricity mobility. These reforms have yielded results, of which all Portuguese have benefited, and have even been the target of international recognition. Portugal was considered in 2013 and again in 2014 as the fourth country with the best performance in climate action and reached 10 in 2015. the position in the World Economic Forum ranking, improving eight positions vis-à-vis the previous year. Portugal was also recognised by the Bertelsmann Foundation, integrating in 2015 the Top 5 of the best-performance countries with regard to combating climate change, being fourth in CO2 emissions associated with energy production and energy sustainability and fifth in terms of primary energy intensity and energy efficiency. UNEP and OECD considered the Green Growth Commitment, approved in 2015, the Green Fiscal Reform, approved in 2014, and the compatibility of cuts in excessive energy income ( around EUR 4 billion) with the promotion of renewable energies as examples of leadership to be followed by other countries. Even recently, in the report published in September 2016 by the European Environment Agency, the Portuguese Green Taxation Reform adopted at the end of 2014 is considered exemplary. Global recognition gave credibility to the Portuguese State and gave it a strengthened capacity to enforce its positions, reflected in the negotiation success in the energy interconnection dossier in 2015, which will allow the country in future to reduce costs and increase the export of renewable energy, consolidating the commitment to reducing energy dependence on the outside. This month, the National Institute of Statistics revealed data on the Economic and Environmental Indicators — Air Emissions Account — 1995 - 2014, revealing positive figures. In addition to the increase between 2011 and 2014 in the weight of renewable energy in electricity from 45 % to 61, 4 %, other indicators also confirm the decarbonization of our energy profile: greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by about 30 % between 2005 and 2014 ; the energy intensity in GDP decreased by 17 % between 2005 and 2013 ; the sale of electric vehicles increased by more than 50 times between 2010 and 2015, largely as a result of fiscal incentives introduced to green tax reform ; the external energy dependence reached the lowest value of the last 20 years in 2014. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the fact that the indicators now known confirm that Portugal has made a strong and correct commitment in recent years in terms of environmental policies and climate and energy and that it is at the forefront of combating the threat of climate change, one of the greatest environmental, social and economic threats facing the planet and humanity today."
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u181	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote just read out. [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, against the CFP and the Greens, and with abstentions from the PS, BE and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u182	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u183	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u184	Mr President, it is only to inform us that, with regard to the vote we have just held, we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u185	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u186	Mr President, I should also like to inform you that, with regard to this vote, I will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u187	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 517 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank ( Chairman of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the general vote on Bill No 31 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrates a transitional scheme applicable to the 2015 IRS income declarations allowing the option for joint taxation in declarations delivered outside the statutory deadlines. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 5. the Commission. Let us now vote, also in general, on Bill 33 / XIII ( 2 ). (a ) — Creates and regulates the national oncology register, including its purposes, the data that are collected, the forms of access, the entity responsible for its administration and database processing. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 9. the Commission. We shall now vote on a request by the Government for discharge to the Health Committee without a 60-day vote of Bill No 34 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — The definition and regulation of the acts of biologist, nurse, pharmacist, doctor, dentist, nutritionist and psychologist is carried out. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall, in general, vote on Bill No. 32 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal system of quality and safety relating to the donation, collection, analysis, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and application of human tissues and cells and the procedures for verifying the equivalence of quality standards and safety of imported tissues and cells, and makes the second amendment to Law No 12 / 2009 of 26 March transposing Commission Directive 2015 / 565 / EU of 8 April amending Commission Directive 2006 / 86 / EC of 24 October as regards certain technical requirements for the codification of human tissues and cells and Commission Directive 2015 / 566 / EU of 8 April. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this bill also goes down to 9. the Commission. We shall vote on a request submitted by the Government for discharge to the Health Committee, without voting for a period of 60 days, of Bill No 38 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves standards for the protection of citizens from involuntary exposure to tobacco smoke and measures to reduce demand related to dependence and cessation of consumption, covering the concept of smoking new non-burning tobacco products that produce aerosols, vapours, gases or inhalable particles and strengthening measures to apply to these new products in the field of exposure to environmental smoke, advertising and promotion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 310 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — prolongs for 10 years the period of application of the New Urban Rent Scheme ( NRAU) for leasers with corrected annual gross income ( RABC) below five annual national minimum wages ( RMA ), for leasers of 65 years or older or with a disability of 60 % or more and for non-residential lease ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, this initiative is down to 11. the Commission. Let us now vote on a request submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without voting for a period of 90 days, of Bill No 300 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the National Cadastral Information System ( SNIC ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 513 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to implement the rustic register in Portugal ( CFP ). With regard to this draft resolution, the PSD requested the separate vote on points 1, 2 and 3 on the one hand and point 4 on the other.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u188	Mr President, if I may, the PSD has requested the vote on all the points separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u189	All right, Mr President, let us start by voting on point 1 of the motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Finally, we voted on point 4 of the motion for a resolution. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we will now vote on a number of requests, together, submitted by the PS, the PCP, the PSD, the Greens, the PAN and the BE, asking the Education and Science Committee to be discharged without voting for a period of 45 days of draft resolutions Nos 358 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Students with special educational needs in higher education ( PS ), 511 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — By a public and inclusive education in higher education ( PCP ), 512 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — For greater inclusion of students with special educational needs in higher education ( PSD ), 514 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — answers at higher education level for students with special educational needs ( NEE) ( The Greens), 515 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government draw up an action plan to enable students with special educational needs to be accessible to higher education ( PAN) and 516 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Support to students with special educational needs in higher education ( BE) and lein.o 329 / XIII projects ( 2. ( a ) — Effective accessibility for all students with special educational needs in higher education ( PAN) and 321 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Exemption of propines in the first and second cycles of higher education for disabled students ( BE ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, those draft resolutions and draft laws are thus lowered to the Committee on Education and Science. We will now vote another set of requests, submitted by BE, the CDS-PP and the PS respectively, asking for the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting for a period of 30 days, of the projects of lein. 308 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to the electoral law of local authorities, approved by the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August ( BE), 318 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the Organic Law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August ( Electoral Act of the Bodies of Local Authorities ), concerning applications by groups of electors ( CDS-PP ) and 328 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to the Electoral Act of Local Authorities, simplifying and clarifying the conditions for applications by groups of citizens and extending the scope of the Equality Act ( PS ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the bills are thus down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 491 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the budgetary allocation of the Rural Development Programme ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u190	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u191	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u192	Mr President, it is only to announce that, with regard to the vote we have just held, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u193	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the State of Israel, of the other part, signed in Luxembourg on 10 June 2013. [[When put to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens were adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN.]] We shall now vote on resolution No 20 / XIII ( 1 ) in a comprehensive vote. ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on the European Satellite Navigation Programmes, signed in Brussels on 18 December 2013. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] We will vote on the 2017 Budget of the Assembly of the Republic. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the text, on the initiative of the Committee on European Affairs — within the framework of the Green Card procedure (strengthened political dialogue), recommends that the European Commission promote, closely monitor and monitor the correct and effective implementation of the instruments and mechanisms created for cooperation in the field of taxation, more efficiently addressing tax evasion, replacing draft resolutions 300 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of the Community legal framework in order to increase transparency in financial transactions ( PSD ), 317 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends strengthening and deepening of European coordination and action on transparency in taxation and financial transactions ( PS ) and 362 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to increase the coordination of European action on transparency in the area of taxation and the fight against tax evasion ( CDS-PP ) [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 315 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the appointment of municipal veterinarians ( PAN) ( title and text amended by the author ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u194	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u195	To what end, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u196	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u197	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 244 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August, Law of the Economic and Social Council, in order to include in the plenary two representatives of pensioners, pensioners and pensioners ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with the votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we now proceed to the general vote on draft law No 248 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Procedures at 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( Approves the Labour Code ), establishing the right of the worker who is one year from the legal retirement age, may choose to work part-time for two years ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention of the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 336 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review legislation so as to defend the elderly from abusive penalties and exclusions that they are target by age ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and BE.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 337 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend Ordinance No 87 / 2006 of 24 January by revising the voluntary card procedure ( CDS-PP ). The PS requested that points 1 and 2 of that draft resolution be voted on separately and we shall therefore proceed to the vote on point 1. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 338 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create additional incentives to support the hiring of unemployed over 55 years ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 339 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a career management plan for older workers ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 340 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop and implement a national strategy for active ageing and longevity ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 341 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government equip the public sector with the private sector regime in which it is allowed to continue working after 70 years ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, BE and The Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 342 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government encourage the development of senior volunteering initiatives ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we will also vote on draft resolution No 343 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve and qualify the home support service ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u198	Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u199	Mr. President, it was to inform that the CFP will present a written declaration of vote on CDS projects under active ageing as called by the CSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u200	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us now vote on the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, concerning Parliamentary Opinions 19 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PSD ) ; 20 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) and 21 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 41 / 2016 of 1 August which, in the use of the legislative authorisation granted by Article 131. Article 140 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) o and by Articles 148. a 150. o, 156. o, 166. o is 169. that of Law No 7 -A / 2016 of 30 March, amends the Code of Seal Tax, the Code of Single Circulation Tax, the Code of Added Value Tax, the Decree-Law No 185 / 86 of 14 July, the Code of Single Persons Tax, the Code of Tax on the Income of Collective Persons, the system of VAT in intra-Community transactions and the Code of Municipal Tax on Real Estate. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-21.u201	Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, 26 October, including the order of business, in addition to political declarations, the examination of petitions Nos 66 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Antonio Carlos Carvalho and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to approve a special retirement scheme for pre-school and pre-school teachers. the cycle of basic education and 5 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Submitted by the Algarve Free Petroleum Platform ( PALP ), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to defend an Algarve free from research, exploration, exploitation and production of oil and natural gas ( conventional or non-conventional). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as is conventional, I wish you a good weekend and a good job from Monday. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 15 minutes.]]
