ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. I would like to tell you from now on that the former Prime Minister of Denmark Poul Rasmussen is present at the Diplomatic Gallery, for whom I would like to greet. [[General applause, with PSD, PS and CDS standing.]] the agenda for today's plenary meeting contains several points. The first is a preparatory debate of the next European Council, which has the participation of the Prime Minister. We will then, in general, consider a proposal for a law on the transitional regime applicable to returns from the IRS and also proposals for laws on the oncology regime and other health matters. Finally, we will appreciate a proposal on the protection of citizens to involuntary exposure to tobacco smoke. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First of all, I count on the following draft laws: No 323 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the scheme of work contracts for show professionals ( third amendment to Law No 4 / 2008 of 7 February 2008 ) ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission; points 324 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Social security scheme, professional reintegration and occupational accident insurance for dancers of the National Dance Company ( BE ) ; point 325 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — extends for 10 years the transitional period in the New Urban Rent Scheme to safeguard leasers with corrected annual gross income less than five annual national minimum wages for leasers over 65 years, for leasers with disabilities over 60 % of disability and for shops and entities with historical and cultural interest ( third amendment to Law No 6 / 2006 of 27 February, as amended by Law No 31 / 2012 of 14 August, and Law No 79 / 2014 of 19 December ) ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 326 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Measures for social support to mothers and parents students, assigning to parents the same set of rights granted to pregnant women and mothers ( first amendment to Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August 2001 ) ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 327 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the General Rules of the Civil Protection Procedure ( approved by Law No 141 / 2015 of 8 September ) and the second amendment to Law No 75 / 98 of 19 November ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission; points 328 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Sixth amendment to the electoral law of local authorities bodies, simplifying and clarifying the conditions for application by groups of citizens and extending the scope of the equality law ( PS ) and 329 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Effective accessibility for all students with special educational needs in higher education ( NAP ). Parliamentary assessment No 26 / XIII ( 2 ) was also presented. ( a ) — Decree-Law No. 40 / 2016 of 29 July amending the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No. 114 / 94 of 3 May, Decree-Law No. 138 / 2012 of 5 July, and Regulation of the Legal Qualification for Conducting, as annexed to Decree-Law No. 138 / 2012 of 5 July, transposing Commission Directives 2014 / 85 / EU of 1 July, and 2015 / 653 / EU of 24 April amending Annexes I, II and III of Directive 2006 / 126 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December on driving licences. The following draft resolutions were also entered in the Bureau: No 511/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — By public and inclusive education in higher education ( CFP ) ; No 512 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — For greater inclusion of students with special educational needs in higher education ( PSD ) ; No 513 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures for the implementation of the rustic register in Portugal ( PCP ) ; No 514 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — answers at the level of higher education for students with special educational needs ( NEE) ( The Greens ) ; No 515 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government draw up an action plan to enable students with special educational needs to be accessible to higher education ( PAN ) ; paragraph 516 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Support for students with special educational needs in higher education ( BE ) ; and No 517 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank ( Chairman of the HR ). The following legislative proposals were also submitted: paragraph 32 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal system of quality and safety relating to the donation, collection, analysis, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and application of human tissues and cells and the procedures for verifying the equivalence of quality standards and safety of imported tissues and cells and makes the second amendment to Law No 12 / 2009 of 26 March transposing Commission Directive 2015 / 565 / EU of 8 April amending Commission Directive 2006 / 86 / EC of 24 October as regards certain technical requirements for the codification of human tissues and cells and Commission Directive 2015 / 566 / EU of 8 April; paragraph 33 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates and regulates the national oncological register, including its purposes, the data that are collected, the forms of access, the entity responsible for its administration and database processing; No 34/ XIII ( 2 ). a ) — The definition and regulation of the acts of biologist, nurse, pharmacist, doctor, dentist, nutritionist and psychologist; paragraph 35/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The twenty-second amendment is made to Decree-Law No 15 / 93 of 22 January approving the legal regime applicable to the trafficking and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, adding several substances to Table II — A ; No 36 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2017 ; No 37 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017 ; and paragraph 38 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves standards for the protection of citizens from involuntary exposure to tobacco smoke and measures to reduce demand related to dependence and cessation of consumption, covering the concept of smoking new non-burning tobacco products that produce aerosols, vapours, gases or inhalable particles and strengthening measures to apply to these new products in the field of exposure to environmental smoke, advertising and promotion. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Secretary will now give an account of the results of the elections we held at the previous plenary meeting for a Secretary of the Bureau of the Republic, for President of the Economic and Social Council, for the Portugal Radio and Television Council and for the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the following results have been obtained: voters — 219, votes « yes » — 164, white votes — 51, null votes — 4. In view of the results obtained, Mr António Carlos Monteiro ( CDS-PP ) was elected. With regard to the election to President of the Economic and Social Council, the result was the following: voters — 219, votes — 146, white votes — 54, null votes — 19. In view of the results obtained, Antonio Fernando Correia de Campos was elected. As regards the election to the Radio and Television Council, the result was the following: voters — 219, votes « yes » — 193, white votes — 19, null votes — 7. Faced with the result, the following members were elected: effective, Pedro Alexandre Vicente de Araújo Lumba, Antonio Ribeiro Cristóvão, José Luís Mendoza Nunes, Vítor Hugo Almeida Pinho, Maria da Estrela Ramos Serrano Caleiro, José Manuel Rebelo Guinote, Maria Emília Brederode Rodrigues dos Santos, Diogo Afonso de Belford Cerqueira Pereira Henriques, Fernando António Pinheiro Correia, Diana Marina Dias Andringa ; alternates, Américo Fernando Alves Ferreira de Carvalho, Ana Sofia Aureliano da Silva Dias, Avelino Rodrigues and Ismael Quiteria Augusto. in the election to the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents, the result was the following: voters — 219, votes « yes » — 157, white votes — 55, null votes — 7. In view of the results obtained, the following deputies were elected: effective, Carlos Abreu Amorim ( PSD ) and Pedro Delgado Alves ( PS ) ; alternates, Jorge Paulo Oliveira ( PSD ) and Ricardo Bexiga ( PS ). It's all Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u5	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all those whom we have chosen and who certainly deserve our recognition. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u6	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u7	The honourable Member is part of the Bureau, so he is also questioning himself. [[Laughing.]] Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u8	Mr President, you will understand that it is an inquiry to ask for your good offices. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government delivered the State Budget for 2017 last Friday. Each year, the budget report shows the estimates of revenue and expenditure broken down into public accounts. Every year it has been so, I have them here with me, and I will send you, Mr. President, the reports of the State Budget for 2014, for 2015 and, already with the current government, for 2016. This information is essential to find out what is the starting point for the next budget analysis. Strangely enough, this year, the government has forgotten to put these tables and this information in the report it sent us. As always, Mr President, I am convinced that he will accept my call and the call of the PSD bank to proceed with the government in terms of revenue and expenditure data to be provided by the Government to the House in public accounting for all terms of the same information and so we can hold a debate on the State budget for 2017 in conditions. That's the appeal I'd like to leave.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u9	It is seen that the Member is a member of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic. I can only reproduce your words and your appeal to the government. I therefore believe that the data in public accounts should come as soon as possible. I now call on Mrs Sandra Pontedeira to report and give an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will be immediately voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Concerning Case No 533 / 2015 - T of the Administrative Arbitration Centre of the Singular Arbitration Court, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees issued an opinion to authorize Mr Nuno Serra, of the PSD, to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u11	Let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let's get into today's agenda now. The first item consists of a preparatory debate of the next European Council, held under Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic, in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. To intervene in the opening of the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The next European Council will have as its main themes the question of migration, trade policy and relations with Russia, without prejudice to other global economic issues. As the first Council to participate in the new British Prime Minister, it is natural that, informally during Thursday's work dinner, the issue of the Brexit calendar is dealt with and is the subject of informal discussion. In an informal manner too, the President-in-Office, the Prime Minister of Slovakia, will certainly realise how the so-called « Bratislava road » has taken place, with a view to concluding in March in the extraordinary Council which will mark 60. the anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, the debate on the future of the European Union. with regard to migration, this European Council will take a first look at the measures taken by the European Union so far. The already known figures on the crossings at the Aegean Sea clearly indicate that the agreement between the European Union, Greece and Turkey has come into operation. in this sense, it is now necessary to pay attention not only to other routes but, above all, to focus on solving the fundamental issues that are at the root of migratory phenomena. Portugal has always been committed to combating the root causes of migration. in this context, we support the new partnership framework for migration and, more specifically, the conclusion of the pact with the five countries identified as priorities: Nigeria, Mali, Senegal, Ethiopia and Niger. In order not to compromise confidence with the other African partners, it is essential that this agreement should not be disconnected from the implementation of the action plan approved in La Valletta or forget the southern aspect of European neighbourhood policy. It is in this sense that we strongly support the European Commission's recent initiative to include the development aspect through the European Union's External Investment Plan for Africa and its neighbourhood. As far as external borders are concerned, the Council will welcome, and we will follow, the operation on 6 October of the European Border and Coast Guard, which aims to strengthen the security of our borders, in which we will have a maximum contribution of 47 effectives to the rapid reaction reserve, to mobilize within the framework of the enlarged Frontex. At the same time, it is also important to promote the use of new technologies in border management, as well as to await the presentation by the European Commission of the legislative proposal on the European Union's information and travel authorisation system. A central issue will certainly be the discussion on the importance of trade policy. If there is an essential contribution that the European Union can make as better regulation of the global economy is trade policy as an instrument for regulating globalisation. in this sense, we are carefully and deeply appreciating the communication presented by the European Commission yesterday on the European Union's trade policy. The discussion will, of course, focus on two topics. Firstly, on the trade agreement with Canada, which is an agreement that we consider balanced, which will bring important market opening benefits to the European Union and Portugal and which allows for economic consolidation of a close political relationship with one of our traditional allies. We would also like the conditions for it to be signed, at least in part concerning the European Union, up to the summit between the European Union and Canada, which will take place on 27 October. It is in the same framework that we encourage the continuation of other negotiations, particularly with Japan and in particular with Mercosur. Finally, and with regard to some global economic issues, we are pleased to see that the European Union — and in particular Portugal — has been in line with ratification of the Paris Climate Change Agreement. It would be desirable for all the countries of the European Union to do so until the Marrakesh Summit, which will take place next November. with regard to the internal market, Portugal stresses the need to move forward in the digital single market, in the modernisation of public services, and in particular with regard to energy union, in particular with regard to the interconnections that are absolutely strategic for the connection of the Iberian Peninsula to the rest of the European market. There are two final issues that I would like to address here, synthetically. First of all, with regard to the European Fund for Strategic Investments and Youth, I am calling for the enlargement of the so-called Juncker Plan, it is absolutely essential, especially at the time it is extended, to provide for a balanced geographical distribution of the projects to be financed and access guaranteed by all Member States. It is not possible for this plan, which meets an investment need, to concentrate investment in the economically stronger countries, emphasizing asymmetries in the economies of the European Union. Finally, with regard to Russia, and not yet aware of the developments that we are looking forward to, which may have the ongoing initiatives, and despite the apprehension with which we have witnessed the worsening of relations with Russia with regard to the conflict with Syria, we believe that it is desirable, as soon as possible, to move from the phase of the conflict to that of greater cooperation and partnership in order to enable the European Union to have a positive attitude and approach in the reduction of sanctions, which are economically undesirable to the European Union, when the climate of cooperation and dialogue is necessarily more fruitful than that of confrontation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u13	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Morgado of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Reading the provisional conclusions of the European Council, it follows that the text could in some way be entitled « Europe : fears and hesitations ». And, more: by reading the text, we realize that the hesitations are already beginning to be the consequence of these fears, and this is an unrecommendable path. There is no doubt that there are urgent issues. The problem of migration is an urgent problem, and we support measures which are being shaped there, such as strengthening external borders, training of a shared coastal guard structure at the disposal of Member States or aid to the countries where most of these migrants are retained. All this is important and all this is urgent, but this cannot be used as a pretext to multiply hesitations and even paralysis. Otherwise, see: in the second point — and Mr Prime Minister has already referred to this — the issue of foreign trade, the European Union's trade policy, the trade agreement with Canada, the trade agreement with the United States of America, and so on. Now, the tone and language in which these conclusions were written is ultra-defensive, it is even frightening. One thing is to say, and we all agree, that the European Union's trade with the rest of the world must be governed by just rules and reciprocity. There is no doubt about that. But the tone and language adopted go far beyond these natural concerns, it is a surrender, or, if we do not want to be so excessive, a surrender to the European political forces that fight and promote its closure and, therefore, its decline. We are already paying for the costs of this paralysis caused by these European fears. The Government, and Mr Prime Minister said so right now, maintains his position to support the trade agreement with Canada and, if so, to be concluded, to the trade agreement with the United States of America. And it went further, saying that it would approve trade agreements with Mercosur or Japan. All right, but that is a point where there is divergence with the comrades from the extreme left who support the government — they support everything else but on this point. But I also have to make a warning to the Prime Minister and the Government in general: a government that is absolutely indispensable to make structural reforms, to promote the competitiveness of our economy, to reverse structural reforms from the past, which scares investors and breaks contracts, which distrusts private initiative and the savers and promotes, or at least stimulates, an ideological agenda of hostility in the face of free competition and the social market economy is not preparing the country for these trade agreements. That is, it is not preparing the country to collect all the benefits that, in the PSD's view, these trade agreements would have if the economy was being reformed and with greater dynamism. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u15	A third point, which is also important, concerns the question of paralysis, fears and hesitations. Where we note more this paralysis and it is not in what is reflected in the conclusions, it is precisely in what is not in the conclusions, and this absence is flagrant. That is not a single line on the issue of economic and monetary union, there is not one line on progress in banking union — which there should be and is not yet — and there is not one line, above all, on reforming the institutional architecture of the euro. This is a crucial issue for Portugal. I therefore have to ask the Prime Minister what his strategy is, because he needs one to bring this debate back to the European agenda. We have already seen that the pretext of a lot will be used to put the debate to death, even though the European Council has a road map of this reform, for example, on the list of the five presidents. It is not because of lack of planning, thinking or timing but simply because you want to put this discussion to death. So I have to ask Mr. Prime Minister what his strategy is, because he needs one. If you continue to persist in the strategy of making resentment alliances with the Greek Prime Minister, then let me give you some advice: give up, because it will not work. in our view, the European Union must govern itself in accordance with a dialogue between two poles of responsibility: national responsibility, which is indispensable for the harmonious functioning of the European Union and which must be defended on behalf of national democracy and our own nationality as a people, in dialogue with a common responsibility, that is, a European responsibility on behalf of the common problems. We therefore need common rules, certainly, but rules that are really common, i.e. that are transparent, intelligible and equal to all, and we do not yet have them. We also need—of course! — common institutions, not if they are inconsequential remedies but also not guided by delirious political projects, such as the construction of a federal superstate, as some clarified vanguards still persist in defending. It is in this context that the PSD continues to defend an institutional structure with budgetary capacity to respond, in an automatic way, to economic shocks and imbalances that occur in parts of the euro area that do not function, then as an instrument of permanent subsidiarity from one country to another — that is, the death of this discussion and, in the long term, the death of the euro zone itself. 20 years ago, we had an opportunity to lay the solid foundations for common institutions that were lasting and effective. We missed that historic opportunity. in this period of relative calm that we now live in Europe, where there are still many problems, especially in southern Europe, this is the second chance that history is giving us. We have to take advantage of it, because we are at risk of not having a third chance. It is therefore a serious obligation of the Government to bring this discussion back to the agenda and to participate in it. And not with vague and empty words, or much less with complaints here in the Portuguese Parliament. It must then — and this is my advice to Mr Prime Minister — take part in this discussion and bring this discussion back to the agenda in a responsible adult conversation. It is these conversations that should live by the partners who share the same House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u16	Mr Catarina Martins spoke for the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister : In previous debates in which we discussed European issues, I expressed all the solidarity of the Left Block with the work that the Government was doing to overcome the European obstacles to the public recapitalisation of the Box. I reiterate this solidarity and the satisfaction of the Left Block with the public recapitalisation of the Box, because the Box can only be fully public. However, in the same way I tell you that you have the full opposition of the Left Block to the salaries of the managers of the General Deposit Box. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is not acceptable for the Left Block that an administration of the General Deposit Box should have million wages. We will not discuss, like the right, whether the President of the Board of Directors of the Box should win four or five times what the Prime Minister earns and whether this salary should be determined by previous wages or by the market. It is simply unacceptable that the managers of the General Deposit Box have million wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u18	It's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u19	If a salary at the Prime Minister's level and the own awareness of the responsibility of functions are not sufficient to ensure the quality and performance in the administration of the General Deposit Box, then nothing will be, because we do not believe that the General Deposit Box and its Board of Directors have more responsibilities than a Prime Minister or a Government. Therefore, the Assembly of the Republic will be confronted again with this issue, because for the Left Block this is not a closed matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would now like to speak about one of the points on the European Council's agenda which we are deeply concerned about. And I must say that, after hearing your speech, we were no longer quiet and that, after hearing the PSD intervention, much less. It seems to me that we have never learned anything about what has happened to the treaties and the agreements Portugal is submitting to. We understand this: the trade agreement with Canada, the so-called "CETA" (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement) is an agreement that removes sovereignty from our country, withdraws the country's ability to intervene in such important matters as labour law, the environment or public health. If you have any doubts about this, remember that because of a similar agreement, tobacco multinational Philip Morris prosecuted the Uruguayan government when it wanted to impose public health measures to combat smoking. [[It's not the same!]] [[It's exactly the same!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u20	These trade agreements are much more than trade agreements, they have taken sovereignty over our country. And the trade agreement with Canada, CETA, is in fact the trade agreement with the United States of America, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, entering the window because the demonstrations against the TTIP were quite strong at the door. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We know that the American multinationals, who wanted the TTIP, also have headquarters in Canada. Therefore, the agreement with Canada is exactly the same as the agreement with the United States of America. Now, what these trade agreements do is take sovereignty away from our country, and that is unacceptable. I remember, for those who think that the speech of the European Council is ultra-defensive when we find it truly unwise, that the parliament of Wallonia, a region of Belgium, has already said that it does not accept the ratification by Belgium of this agreement. The German Constitutional Court has already said that it has many doubts and that this agreement cannot go without further delay. Portugal must join the voices of prudence against the loss of sovereignty and the attack on labour rights, public health and the environment. And I remember that when our country was quick to approve treaties and agreements that took our sovereignty away from us, then we always regret it. And when we see Portugal today facing a process of sanctions because of the budget treaty, we must remember how PS and PSD wanted to be the first in Europe to approve it and what that means today. I would hear Manuela Ferreira Leite, who said, about the budget treaty, that we are in a non-blind and that it is beginning to be time to untie. What this European Council should do was set aside the blind node of the budget treaty and no more steps to be taken against our country, with CETA, with the TTIP or with any other trade treaty or agreement which withdraws sovereignty to our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u21	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u22	I shall conclude, Mr President. Defending the country must always not accept limitations to democratic sovereignty, that is, the choice of those who live here. The CETA, like the TTIP, are unacceptable agreements, negotiated in the dark and against the very popular sovereignty that our Constitution determines. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u23	I give the floor to Mr Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u24	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Prime Minister, before moving on to the specific agenda of the European Council, let me just ask you a very focused question. This week, the Government delivered to Brussels, to be discussed with the Commission, a draft, a first plan of the Portuguese State budget. in this first plan of the Portuguese State Budget, the Portuguese Government tells Brussels that the removal of the surcharge will mean more revenue in 2017, plus 0, 1 % of the revenue GDP. And exactly within the same framework of the State budget, which has been delivered here in Parliament, says that the removal of the levy means, in 2017, less revenue, less 0, 1 %. What I ask you, Prime Minister, is the following: where are we staying? For Europe, is it more and less for management? What is going to happen, indeed, Prime Minister? It is that, for more or less, for people who say one thing and do another, here we have the Left Block, which criticizes very much the millionaires of the General Deposit Box, but then, with its vote, in committee and plenary, votes against those who want to impose limits. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Allow me also, Prime Minister, to talk a little more about the next summit and, above all, talk about the state of the European Union. Europe is today, as the President of the European Commission has already acknowledged, in an existential crisis. And this existential crisis, above all, has to do with the lack of solidarity with the European project, a lack of solidarity to which we are witnessing in the management of the sovereign debt crisis - in fact, Portugal, in this sense, suffered directly from this gap that was created between the north and the south of Europe. This crisis has to do with the lack of solidarity in the management of the greatest humanitarian crisis we know in the 21st century, which is the refugee crisis. Everyone realized, within and outside Europe, that the European decision-making system collapsed and that the migration crisis became an institutional crisis. And Portugal can say this clearly, with the authority of whom over the past two years has prepared an answer and today is pointed out as an example in the reception and integration of refugees. This crisis still has to do with the lack of solidarity in the process of European construction, as demonstrated by the Brexit. With Brexit, we all realize that the European project is not irreversible and, in this sense, what Europe does about the future of Brexit, and how a response will affect the European project itself. I would like to know what the Portuguese Government is defending now with the European Commission: whether it is adopting a more punitive line in relation to the United Kingdom, or whether it continues to realize that Europe also needs to make trade agreements, which, in this sense, protect the European interest itself. But there is also a response to this crisis that must be given: to restore solidarity. And to restore solidarity is not to proclaim empty bricks like what we need more Europe or better Europe, but it is also not to divide the European Union any more, just as it has happened with fragmentation in several small summits, minicimers, whether with the resurrected group of founders, either with the Group of Visegrád, or even recently with Club Med, which is more useful to corrode European unity than to strengthen it. in this sense, the agenda of the Bratislava Summit was promising, but the truth is that the result was very disappointing. And with regard to the next summit, we have many doubts about a promising outcome. It is disappointing to verify that this is 11. the European Council which meets consecutively to discuss migration, and which, so far, have only been integrated 16 000 refugees, about 10 % of the total that the European Union has undertaken to integrate. This means that at every summit that passes, we can only integrate 1% of refugees. It is very easy to calculate how many summits are missing to solve the first difficulty we have. It is also disappointing to note the disbelief in Europe today in relation to free trade agreements, in particular TTIP with the United States of America and CETA with Canada, which can be factors of creating wealth and employment, especially for Portugal. I note that Mrs. Le Pen's speech on this matter is exactly the same as the discourse of the Left Block, which we still hear here. The far-left and the far-right Europeans have a populist response; they have primary protectionism as a solution to all our problems. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u25	But above all, I am concerned about what the Portuguese Government thinks about this. We read the documents that the Government delivered to the Assembly of the Republic on the Big Options of the Plan and the State Budget, and we realized that the Government has revised its commitments to the past, to the documents it had delivered here on the TTIP and the CETA.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u26	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u27	I shall conclude with a question, Mr President. to that end, I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, what will be the position of the Government of Portugal in the next Council, regarding the need to close the CETA and to be able to continue in the TTIP negotiations. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u28	I give the floor to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, the proposals for conclusions from this Council show once again that the European Union does not want to respond to the most serious problems Europe is facing: economic problems and social problems. on the contrary, the draft conclusions are dedicated to reinforcing the retrograde nature of the so-called'migrating' policies, to investing more and more in the militarization of the humanitarian issue, to deepening the unacceptable logic of the agreement with Turkey and to withdraw sovereignty from States, by deepening a whole set of measures, particularly in the field of the common market. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to express to you our repudiation for the successive blackmails that our country has been targeted. It is unacceptable that the Commission, in conjunction with the majority of the European Parliament, intends to extend the discussion on the suspension of funds to Portugal, with the sole aim of taking blackmail to the final approval of the State budget. As it is unacceptable for a Commissioner to have come to this House blackmail directly Portugal, waving with the daddy of a new ransom.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u31	What will Portugal say at the European Council about these attacks on national sovereignty and Portuguese democracy? Maybe it's time to remind them that the man in Portugal is the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u33	Secondly, as everyone knows, Belgium opposed the ratification of CETA, i.e. the free trade agreement with Canada. This is, as we know, a mixed agreement, with serious implications for national production and for our sovereignty. That is why we do not understand how the Government has agreed to an unacceptable claim, which is the Commission's intention to sign and force the entry into force of an agreement which requires ratification by all Member States before this ratification process by the European Union takes place. So, what is the place of democracy? Where is the defense of our sovereignty in this process? It is that the consequences for our economy, for our food and environmental security and for our agricultural and livestock production are very serious. What is already known is bad: for example, beef and pig quotas, or mixed 20 designations of origin for Portuguese agricultural and food products, recognised by the agreement. But the worst is what you don't know. The question arises inevitably, and we are not the first to do it, because others have already done it: if there is nothing to hide, why so much secret? Where are the guarantees sufficient for the Portuguese Government to give its agreement to CETA so that the State can secure national interests? They don't exist. Quoting a socialist leader from another European country, «there are no legally binding clauses allowing, if tomorrow there is a conflict between a multinational and a state, not to weaken the capacity of the State to regulate, protect our public services, our social and environmental standards». And Portugal, will you accept the agreement in these circumstances? I'll move on to the third question. from what you can see, the Council will address the Juncker plan. Almost two years ago, the mountain, after all, gave birth to a mouse. The total investment cake is a third of what has been announced. And who benefits? The major economies of the European Union, the major economic groups. Even in investments for SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises), what is concrete is pre-agreement with the bank that the future will say will take place. Now that we are talking about duplication of funds, the questions are the following: where are you going to look for this doubling? Who's gonna pay for this? Is this a realignment of the Budget? This does not affect Portugal, how has it already affected the fact that part of this fund is withdrawn from Horizon 2020? And do the rules stand, benefiting large countries and large companies? I leave these questions to you. Finally, the issue of public and private managers was addressed here — even comments and departures, in particular from the PSD bench. Today, a proposal from the CFP was discussed and voted in committee to limit these salaries to the Prime Minister's salary, and the result was that the PSD and PS voted against, thus allowing the full increase in wages and privileges. at least, be careful and see what happened in committee before they move away. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u34	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister : The position of the Greens with regard to CETA and TTIP, trade agreements with Canada and the United States, respectively, is well known. Moreover, the only debate that was promoted in plenary in the Assembly of the Republic was rightly requested by the Greens. at the time we denounced the lack of information on these agreements, and that is a fact. The question that deserves to be raised is the following: what is the fear of those who are negotiating that peoples and populations are familiar with the content of these treaties? Mr Prime Minister, let us look at Portugal, put our hands on our conscience and ask ourselves: who knows the contents of CETA in Portugal? And is Mr. Prime Minister sure that the Portuguese agree with that content? On behalf of whom is Mr Prime Minister speaking when he helps speed up the partial entry into force of the CETA? I think we have to ask ourselves about this. Mr. Prime Minister, I think the Portuguese need to be aware that what is at stake is very serious. There has already been talk about the loss of sovereignty, but there is one issue that must also be stressed: it is a step towards the subordination of political power to economic power. It is that we have such dangerous rules as this: we imagine that a particular multinational sees its profit expectations hurt, because they change labour rules, public health rules, etc. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. in this case, he may seek compensation from the State, and the State, instead of serving the peoples, is serving the interests of the multinational. The world cannot continue to build itself like this! And because what is at stake here is so dangerous, I think it deserves a very broad and very intense discussion among peoples, governments, institutions, all of them! But let us all be clear on this matter! in fact, Mr. Prime Minister, the Portuguese are not clear on this matter. There is another issue that must also be denounced: I believe that this haste at a partial entry into force of CETA has two very clear objectives. First, there is fear that it will not be ratified by national parliaments, as there is already a sign from Belgium, that we have already talked about here; on the other hand, they want to speed up the TTIP, which is another negative brand of this kind. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, I would just like to point out to you a very clear 'no' from the Greens regarding this intention of partial entry into force of the ECTA. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u36	Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u37	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This European Council is at a particularly important time for the European Union, but also at a particularly important time for Portugal. Before addressing you three specific questions, Prime Minister, I cannot fail to make three comments. The first comes following Mr Pedro Mota Soares. Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, the Members of this bench were elected with a commitment: with the Socialist Party there are no permanent pension cuts in payment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we will do everything, everything, but everything that is within our reach to fail to comply with the extent that you have signed up for the 2015 - 2019 Stability Programme. With us there are no pension cuts! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] So let me tell you that the reference to overtax in 2017 is simple: in 2017, all Portuguese, without exception, will pay less surcharge. But it is clear that the overtax value included in the State budget proposal for 2017 is higher than that shown in the stability programme that the government delivered in Brussels, in April 2016. There's no incongruence. It is just a matter of fulfilling the electoral programme in a transparent, unhindered way, to carry out the Government's programme and to be transparent in the relationship with the European institutions. [[PSD laughter.]] Then Mr Miguel Morgado spoke of fears and hesitations in his speech. In view of the difficult circumstances that Portugal has lived this year, and that continues to live, under the threat of sanctions and suspension of funds, having been the PSD in the Government between 2013 and 2015 and saying these sanctions for that period, he hoped that at the time that this plenary, for the first time after the news we had about the sanctions, would meet to prepare a European Council, if he addressed the Government and the « para-bence» for the results obtained in relation to the outcome of the sanctions process. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] But Mr. Miguel Morgado, unfortunately, did not. I'm leaving a third note. I understand that we can have all the differences and convergences, we can even consider that international trade is not positive for the social and economic development of peoples, but there is a central issue: this treaty, the TTIP in particular, is the treaty that has been discussed with greater transparency since there are international trade treaties.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u38	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u39	And if this treaty were so negative to the European Union, my gentlemen, the United States would have subscribed to it, and they have not yet done so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, of course, they will not do so under the conditions that the European Union has put in place, which are the conditions to ensure that European standards with regard to labour rights and the environment will be respected. So let me say that international trade with rules is positive for economic and social development, and that is what we must battle and we must continue to do in this framework. Mr. Prime Minister, I would leave you three questions. The first is the suspension of funds. Mr Prime Minister, the truth is that this process has not ended, and this European Council runs at a time when structured dialogue between the European institutions continues. It was very important for us to realize how the Portuguese Government is preparing this Council, also once again, at a time when the suspension of funds is still within the scope of the possibilities. I well know that what we have done with regard to budgetary implementation and, in particular, with regard to cases we have already resolved, such as that of Banif ( International Funchal Bank ) or that of the General Deposit Box, today gives the Portuguese Government more credibility. But it is a central and important aspect for the Portuguese. There is no private investment, there is no foreign investment if we continue with the problems that weigh on the Portuguese economy and create uncertainty, and the suspension of funds brings uncertainty. The second question concerns the mid-term review of the European Union budget. Mr. Prime Minister, we are advocates of convergent competitiveness. There is no competitiveness without convergence and no territorial and social cohesion. Many of the amendments which are proposed do not have geographical allocation, the element of cohesion is not present. in our view, the Portuguese Government must continue in the logic of defending the convergence competitiveness, and we do not verify this seal in the proposal which was presented by the Commission and which has been discussed and approved in the meantime. Finally, as the last question, Mr Prime Minister, there is one aspect which is particularly important for us: the completion of economic and monetary union. The banking union, the union of the capital market are decisive elements and the budgetary capacity of the euro area as well. We see that migration, in particular, has been a very pressing issue in recent times. But being very pressing in recent times, this element of economic and monetary union remains a decisive element for the cohesion of the European Union and for the cohesion of the euro area. I would therefore ask you the question of what position the Portuguese Government takes to this Council in order to take steps to deepen economic and monetary union, which is crucial to the success of the Union itself, but which is also crucial for a country like Portugal to participate in a healthy, growth-oriented manner for the future in this process of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u40	Mr President, I call on the Bureau to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u41	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u42	Mr President, I would like to make an inquiry on the conduct of the work, asking you to promote the distribution of a document. I did not ask for its distribution first because I felt that all the Members had seen the picture that the Government sent to Brussels. I have now checked after Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, who, of course, did not see this document. And this document is very clear, Mr President: in it, the Portuguese Government tells Brussels that the removal of the overtax of IRC (tax on the income of collectives) will mean an increase of 0, 1 % for the State budget this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u43	Mr President, bring the document to the Bureau, which the Bureau is responsible for making it available. To close the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, some years of parliamentary experience have led me to learn a rule: whenever a bench needs to ask the Bureau to show documents, it is because the debate on which the document is already going wrong. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The first good news that I am withdrawing from this debate on the European Council is that for the PSD and the CDS the budgetary debate, which has not yet begun, is already going very badly. I am pleased, and that is good news for all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] First of all, I understand the apprehension that various Mrs. Members, notably the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens Ecological Party, have placed on the negotiation of the agreement with Canada. I believe that globalization is a fact of our insertion today in the world and that, if we want a regulated globalization, we must have institutional capacity for its regulation. If there is a role that the European Union has to play today, it must be able to be an organisation that represents the whole of Europe in regulating globalisation. To this end, the European Union's trade policy is an absolutely fundamental instrument, because if we want to have protection of our production modes, a requirement for the protection of workers' rights, as regards the high standard of environmental sustainability, as regards public health and food quality standards, we must have a European Union trade policy capable of imposing that today's global competition is developed in accordance with European standards and not with social dumping, environmental dumping or dumping for public health of standards practised in other regions of the world. If the European Union fails to do so, it would never be any Member State to obtain it alone. The question of the transfer of powers does not arise today, it was the day when the different Member States attributed to the European Union the competences in the field of trade policy. However, I draw attention to the fact that this agreement is of a mixed nature: it has a component that is within the competence of the European Union and has a component that is not within the competence of the European Union. And that, yes, must be called upon to be ratified by the various national parliaments, it must be ratified by this Assembly of the Republic, which will be sovereign to decide whether or not it approves. I also draw attention to the fact that this agreement is quite different from the TTIP, from the outset in relation to an absolutely crucial element in sovereignty, which has to do with the mode of conflict regulation. The mode of conflict regulation does not arise from these agreements. Portugal is bound by investment protection treaties that already allow foreign companies to seek Portugal in situations of non-compliance with investment rules. It does not result from the European Union, resulting from treaties signed sovereignly by Portugal. The conviction I have is that a negotiation between blocks protects us more than a negotiation in which we are alone, isolated, negotiating with the United States, Canada or Japan. in this sense, we will be part of the European Union, giving us strength and protecting us further in the negotiating framework. But quite distinct from what was foreseen in the TTIP, there is no pure arbitration mechanism in CETA, but a new mechanism which provides for the existence of a permanent tribunal designated by States and not by private initiative. What we have is an international court and not an arbitral tribunal, which is quite different from what was in the TTIP. This is a feature that makes a big difference between what is foreseen in CETA and what was planned at the initial phase of the TTIP negotiation. There is a second aspect which this debate has brought to the top and which, I think, is politically of the greatest relevance. We heard Mr. Miguel Morgado and Mr. Pedro Mota Soares recently. Mr Morgado looks at the European Council and sees in the attitude of this Council fears and hesitations, Mr Pedro Mota Soares looks at Europe today and sees a lack of solidarity. What I see is that the PSD and CDS have evolved in their position vis-à-vis Europe. [[CDS-PP protests.]] After four years of being careful and applied, now at least they have become no longer Euro-engineering in relation to the European Union! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to know where you were in the years when you were saying in Portugal that it was necessary to cut the pensions because the European Union imposed it, which it was necessary to cut the salaries of the civil service because the European Union imposed it, which was necessary to create the supertax because the European Union imposed it, which was necessary to create the ESC (extraordinary contribution of solidarity) because the European Union imposed it. After four years of having a servant position before the European Union, are they now taking this attitude before the European Union? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I conclude that these months in the opposition are doing you good and that you must continue to oppose it because they will continue to evolve in the right direction with regard to the European Union!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u45	Great level! It's full of level!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u46	What I would like to say to Mr Miguel Morgado is as follows: Portugal will take a concrete initiative on the reform of the architecture of the euro area and on economic and monetary union and will - in time to be taken into account in the White Paper which the European Commission has undertaken to present in the extraordinary Council of Rome. It does not do so in the next Council because it was agreed in Bratislava that, in view of the degree of divergence existing today in the European Union, it was premature to do this debate and that it should be structured around a Commission initiative. However, we will not be outside that initiative of the Commission, we will be in there.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u47	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u48	I shall try to conclude, Mr President. I am pleased that the PSD has already taken important steps, particularly in the defence of budgetary capacity, for now and only for the correction of asymmetric shocks. But I hope that the PSD, at this stage in the opposition, will continue to evolve and understand that budgetary capacity is not only for asymmetrical shocks,... [[PSD MP Pedro Mota Soares protests.]] ... it must be to correct the structural asymmetry that the euro represents for economies such as Portuguese and that it is necessary to have this budgetary capacity...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u49	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u50	... in order to be able to resume a course of convergence without which, as Mr Jerónimo de Sousa said, there is no plan that is worth us, because what is necessary is to resume the path of convergence that has been broken and to return to Europe solidarity, which, of course, Mr Pedro Mota Soares wants to have. I am glad that they want Europe to be solidarity because Europe solidarity is our Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u51	We have reached the end of the preparatory debate of the next European Council. Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, I thank you for your presence and information that are dispensed, except for those who have to stay for the discussion of the next item. Let us then move on to the general discussion of Bill No. 31 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrates a transitional scheme applicable to IRS income declarations for 2015, which allows the option for joint taxation in declarations delivered outside the statutory deadlines. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Through the proposed law under discussion, the Government intends to correct a situation of flagrant injustice emerging from the reform of the IRS carried out in 2014. With this reform, it was stipulated that the option for joint taxation is considered only if it is exercised within the time limits laid down for the delivery of the return of income, so if the declaration is delivered out of time or if it is changed after the deadline, it is no longer possible to opt for the joint taxation scheme.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u53	Mr Secretary of State, I interrupt you to ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the various stands who are silent and who feel. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. This restriction was applied for the first time in the delivery process of declarations that occurred in 2016 on 2015 incomes. The taxpayers were thus caught unaware of the change. For those cases where joint taxation is more favourable to the penalty provided for in the law for the delay in the declaration, and which is a simple fine, another penalty was added: the unjustified increase of the tax to be paid. We are sure that this consequence, which is a prevalence of the interest of administrative simplicity on material justice, was not a consequence that had been duly weighted by the legislator in 2014. of the proposed State Budget Act for 2017, there is already the repeal of this rule. However, in order to remedy the above-mentioned injustice with regard to the incomes of 2015, the Government proposed to the Assembly of the Republic the approval of this transitional regime. The proposed scheme applies to all those who, being in a position to do so, claim to be taxed by the joint taxation regime for 2015. And it applies whether they have exercised this option in an income statement delivered out of time, or they have not been able to exercise this option because they have complied with the impediment so far contained in the law. in cases where an optional joint taxation declaration has been submitted outside the time limit, the Tax Authority may, with the proposed legal regime, recover those unaccepted declarations and automatically deal with the new settlement, which is the simplest solution for taxpayers. Where the taxpayers are required to submit a new joint declaration and a fine has already been applied for the submission of an out-of-term income statement, no new fine shall be applied on the same basis. Finally, taxable persons wishing to submit a joint declaration may still require the suspension of any executive proceedings which have been instituted by the early non-payment of the recovery notes for the 2015 IRS on the basis of a liquidated declaration under the separate taxation scheme. We believe, therefore, that we have ensured the elimination of all the harmful consequences of the legal regime introduced in 2014 and to ensure to all affected taxpayers that the State requires only the tax to be paid and not more than the one to pay, as is fair. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u55	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This bill responds to a proposal from the CFP. last May, the PCP Parliamentary Group began to receive complaints from citizens against this unfair rule imposed by the previous PSD Government, which prohibits married or indeed united to opt for joint taxation when this option is exercised outside the deadline. For PSD and CDS it is not enough to apply the usual fine, it is necessary to put workers to pay more IRS, in some cases hundreds or thousands of euros. In June, following these complaints that were made to the CFP Parliamentary Group, at a hearing with Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, we denounced this situation and proposed the repeal of the rule and a solution for all the taxpayers affected by it. Alerted by the PCP, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs immediately showed readiness to analyze and resolve the situation. The formal confirmation of this availability came at the end of August in writing in response to a question from the CFP Parliamentary Group. Thus, with the decisive contribution of the CFP, another inequity of the former PSD/CDS Government is reversed. The proposal of the State Budget for 2017, delivered to the Assembly of the Republic on Friday, establishes the repeal of the rule which will no longer apply in the coming years. Regarding taxpayers injured in 2016, the problem will be overcome with the extraordinary regime under discussion today, a regime that we naturally follow. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The problem now solved is only one of many problems in fiscal policy. The collection of labour income imposed in 2013 was still only partially reversed, the weight of indirect taxes is excessive, the taxation of economic groups and large companies is insufficient, the assets and financial transactions do not pay any taxes. It is necessary to take decisive steps to alleviate the tax burden on workers, pensioners, pensioners, families and micro and small entrepreneurs, just as it is necessary to break up with the promotion of large capital, paying more appropriately the economic groups, large businesses and great fortunes. in this battle for a fairer fiscal policy, the Portuguese know that they can count on the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u57	Mr Cristóvão Crespo, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: First of all, I would like to confront the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs because today we have been confronted — forgive me for being redundant — with statements in which he said that there were obstacles to his and his colleagues in the government. I therefore believe that this is the right time to refer to this because your statements are still fresh and present in memory of all of us. And these are your statements, as far as we know. We wanted to know, in order to monitor the action of the Government and of the Secretary of State, what are the obstacles that the Secretary of State has and what are the impediments of his other colleagues of government, because that is the only way to monitor the Government. Mr. Secretary of State is present today, the statements were made yesterday, so we want to know what is the list of impediments Mr. Secretary of State has and what is the list that the members of the Government have on this matter. I now turn to the IRS issue. Mr Secretary of State, the reform of the IRS required an exhaustive clarification of taxpayers and, in particular, of the declarative obligation, that is, in changing how couples would submit the IRS declaration. The PSD defends a friendly tax administration for taxpayers, even though or because of its mission it is to liquidate and charge taxes. In 2016, the reform of the friendly IRS of Portuguese families for the first time, as it is now verifiable — so much so that the government even complains of very high reimbursements! — Friend of families with children and friends of families without children.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u59	The reimbursements are high because you didn't. That's why they're high now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u60	The change was very profound, because it changed an essential aspect by considering that the basic rule was individual delivery. The IRS campaign should have greatly accentuated this aspect. We want to safeguard that the responsibility for all the upheavals we witnessed was not from the Tax Authority, but from the Government, responsibility that extended to the back-up process which has been the process of reimbursements, which have extended beyond the acceptable, and there are taxpayers who are still waiting for reimbursement. The transitional regime we are discussing today essentially serves to hide and mask your huge increase in taxes. There are problems in social security, there are problems in health, there are problems of socialist, blogger and communist governance, a new tax is created. We even argue about who the fatherhood of the new tax is. It is the acute debate on the creation of new taxes! in the past, the socialist governments have created incomes — incomes for PPP dealers, incomes for energy companies, incomes for the School Park — and now create new taxes. In conclusion, we are discussing today this IRS transitional regime to enable taxpayers to correct IRS statements, because at the beginning of the year the government did not do the housework. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u61	For an intervention, Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In fact, today we are gathered here to speak of Bill No 31/ XIII ( 2 ). a ), which is very important for taxpayers but which is devalued by the PSD Member who has just spoken, because it seemed to want to deal with another matter that has nothing to do with the subject under discussion and, as you well know, in the previous governments everything that you referred to was going on in the same way. So I don't want to go any further than that, but, yes, go back to the subject that I consider important. In 2016, in the process of delivering the declarations that it reported to the year 2015, for the first time the rule that the taxation of couples was separate was applied. The various amendments that the law of 2014 brought a restriction on the joint taxation regime of spouses and de facto unions, stating that the option for joint taxation was considered only if it was exercised within the time limits laid down for the delivery of the declaration. However, the application of these amendments has been detrimental to some taxpayers who, by mistake or by delay in delivering their declaration, were unable to opt for joint taxation. The PS defends fiscal justice and therefore, from the outset, the government understood, and well, that the restriction proved excessive, as it resulted in the worsening of the liquidation of the IRS. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the problem that the draft law, tabled by the Government, which is currently under discussion, is intended to provide an answer. in fact, we well know that there have been reports of taxpayers who have tried to resolve their situation through various channels, including through complaints, hierarchical remedies, using the Ombudsman, petitions to the Assembly of the Republic and even with recourse to the Constitutional Court. Consider one example: a married taxable person who, over time, submitted his IRS statement to the separate tax system, not taking the spouse any income, then their expenses do not count to deduct the collection, did not get any tax benefit. in this example, there was a loss for this family aggregate of more than €3500 in the refund of the IRS, i.e. instead of receiving €1465, if this legislative amendment was not made, it would have to pay €2117. from what can be seen, this is a very serious and harmful situation to the lives of many Portuguese people and lacks a very urgent resolution. We therefore welcome the Government's presentation of this initiative, which consists of a transitional regime applicable to IRS declarations for the year 2015 and, of course, we also welcome the fact that, in the proposed State budget law for 2017, this rule has already been repealed...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u63	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u64	I shall end, Mr President, by reaffirming that we are continuing to give greater fiscal justice to the citizens and we look forward to unanimous approval by this Parliament of this initiative, which we have already seen will be so because it could not be otherwise. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u65	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate sums up quite simply, i.e., the previous government created more injustice by having placed the law than taxpayers who, for some reason or for some other reason, did not deliver their IRS declaration in time, lost the opportunity to make a joint IRS declaration. This injustice, created purposely in the law, penalized thousands of families who began to pay more IRS. The finding of this injustice was so clear that, as far as I can see, no one is opposed to the law being reversed this year. And that's what's going to happen, i.e. it's reversed, preventing this from happening next year, but more than that, it makes the state a good person and it comes now to allow people who have been wrongly forced to pay more IRS can be compensated for more than they have paid because of an unfair law imposed by the PSD and the CDS in the previous IRS law. It seems to me that this is another obvious step towards making not only the tax system more fair, but also the Tax Authority a more humane institution. On the other hand, it is also a step that is added to others, particularly when this majority managed to prevent, with the votes against and with the systematic opposition of the PSD and the CDS — which at the time had the majority — that the Tax Authority should stay with the homes of the people who were their family address. The PSD and the CDS — on the right — not only did they not content themselves with raising taxes by 78 times in four years as they still increased, within these taxes, 30 % of the IRS, as the couples who, unfortunately, failed to deliver the declaration to pay more IRS, as they were still going to look for the household houses of people who, having gone through a toll, did not pay it, because even the Tax Authority charged the fines of the toll. The introduction of this initiative is another example of a tax authority that wants to be fairer, but also more humane with small taxpayers, and that is why we can only support this rule, not only because it is an amendment to the future but also because it brings greater justice into the system. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u67	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Mr State Secretary for Tax Affairs, as has already been mentioned, the statements we have made that Mr State Secretary did in an interview require clarification. on the part of the CDS, we will still present a question to the Prime Minister in the sense of knowing - and this is not a personal matter, it is not in relation to the Secretary of State, but spoke of all the members of the Government - which is the list of the incompatibilities of direct relations that each member of the Government has and the entities to which it cannot relate, because we believe that, in the context of the scrutiny of this Parliament, this transparency is fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u70	what we are dealing with today is a different matter, and perhaps because it is so clear, it leads to delirious interventions such as what we have just heard. It is about attacking taxpayers who said that it was necessary to lose the shame of going for what it was possible to find whom I was accumulating is in fact an extraordinary waste. It's an extraordinary waste! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Secretary of State, this is the merit of the measure, it should not be interpreted as criticism, because the measure is transparent, it has little to be told and that is why it leads to this type of intervention. Still, it has to be told, in a relevant way, the following: it has not been at issue, it is false that it has been, the creation of a new obstacle in 2014. on the contrary, in the reform of the IRS a new opportunity was created: who was obliged to deliver the statements of the IRS together became able to deliver them separately, i.e., a right was added to the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u72	What happens is that this rule, for a period of time, did not include the same option for those who deliver the IRS declaration out of time and for those who deliver it within time. That's all this is now being solved. Since it is so simple, it is difficult to understand that since the government has been confronted with this reality for so long, the situation is only now being resolved. In fact, it can be thought that the problem was that this situation happened exactly when the government was having clear problems in returning, in good time, the withholdings it had made to the taxpayers, and this year they were returned much later than usual. So the question has to do with it. Mr. Secretary of State, we want to know when and how taxpayers who delivered their statement out of time will be reimbursed, who had to be handed over penalized because the regime so demanded and now have to be compensated for what they paid in excess. This proposal for a law is very clear and transparent in relation to those who have not paid and who may be in a situation of non-compliance, either with regard to the suspension of the proceedings or with regard to future liquidation, but it does not seem to us — and, eventually, it may even deserve correction in the field of specialty — that it is so clear and transparent in relation to citizens who, despite feeling penalized, have carried out the settlement, have paid their IRS and now, on a matter of justice, must be relieved of what they have paid in excess. Therefore, the question that we put, so that it can be clarified in the specialty, is how and when the government intends to do justice to those who paid the most not because they wanted it but because they were forced to do so. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u73	For a new intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the BE Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u74	Mr President, Mr. João Almeida, there is a huge difference between us that goes far beyond the meters that go from my bench to yours. And the difference is this: the Left Block is not ashamed to defend that the 1 % who accumulated more wealth with the crisis can pay more taxes; already the CDS lost all the shame when it imposed an overtax of IRS on all taxpayers, when it cut the solidarity supplement for the elderly to the poorest, when it cut the salaries of the public service above 600 €... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... and still wanted, above all, a permanent cut in pensions, which only didn't happen because this bench, along with others, went to the Constitutional Court to block the extent to which the CDS should be ashamed until today, which was, I repeat, a permanent cut in pensions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u75	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u76	Mr. President and Mr. Members, speaking to the question under discussion, although with the concern to know whether the Code of Administrative Procedure was or was not complied with in the previous government, doubt that I was left here now,... [[PSD Members' laughs.]] ... I wanted to say the following: I entered this convinced debate that the regime we propose to repeal was an unintentional consequence of the 2014 reform. In fact, as Mr Paulo Sá said, this is a question which most of us ignored and which was raised for the first time in committee by the CFP. I was aware by the PSD, that this injustice was not an unintended consequence ; it was even so that the PSD wanted and apparently it was the destination, it was another government, it was the Administration, that it failed to comply with how this extraordinary intention of the previous government should be! Mrs. Members, when it is so obvious, so clear to everyone who is here, even to the CDS, that this solution is an injustice without any cabbage, it is not understood that at this time the PSD can not look at its government action and say, "Here, at least here, was a mistake and here at least here we are available to help correct". [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u77	We have reached the end of the debate on Bill No 31 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). We will move on to the third item on the agenda, which deals with the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 33 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates and regulates the national oncological register, including its purposes, the data that are collected, the forms of access, the entity responsible for its administration and database processing, 34 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — The definition and regulation of the acts of biologist, nurse, pharmacist, doctor, dentist, nutritionist and psychologist and 32 / XIII ( 2 ) is carried out. ( a ) — establishes the legal system of quality and safety relating to the donation, collection, analysis, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and application of human tissues and cells and procedures for verifying the equivalence of quality standards and safety of imported tissues and cells and makes the second amendment to Law No 12 / 2009 of 26 March transposing Commission Directive 2015 / 565 / EU of 8 April amending Commission Directive 2006 / 86 / EC of 24 October as regards certain technical requirements for the codification of human tissues and cells and Commission Directive 2015 / 566 / EU of 8 April. For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Fernando Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u78	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members : Today we present three proposals for laws of structural importance for the National Health Service ( SNS ) in the field of equity, access, security and quality of services provided to the Portuguese population. The first bill discussed today provides for the definition and regulation of health acts. This diploma defines and regulates the acts of biologist, nurse, pharmacist, doctor, dentist, nutritionist and psychologist. The Government, in its health programme, established as a strategic priority the improvement of human resources management and the motivation of health professionals. Thus, in order to legally frame the different professional acts in the perspective of safeguarding the best interests of users, it is necessary to develop an appropriate legislative framework in order to regulate the various professional acts in the health sector, promoting the concept of multidisciplinary teams and models of cooperation among the various professionals. The second proposed law that is being discussed today provides for the creation and regulation of the national oncological register. This diploma aims to promote access and equity among cancer patients through the aggregation of various regional oncological records, on a single national identical platform, ensuring uniformity of data processed and without prejudice to confidentiality and security. In its health programme, the Government prioritizes the strengthening of epidemiological surveillance, in particular in relation to health determinants and risk factors with greater impact on equitable health gains. Only through a centralized registry, consisting of collection and data analysis of all cancer patients diagnosed and/or treated in the national territory, is it possible to monitor the activity performed by the institutions, the evaluation of the effectiveness of organized screenings, epidemiological surveillance, the monitoring of therapeutic effectiveness, the investigation and monitoring of the effectiveness of medicinal products and medical devices in the area of oncological diseases. in this context, the creation of the national oncological register will contribute to the improvement of the provision of health care to cancer patients in the country, thus being evident the underlying public interest. It should be noted that the recommendations made by the National Data Protection Commission have been duly cautioned to ensure data security and confidentiality. Finally, the third proposal for a law under discussion transposes European legislation into national legal reality, combining local practices with best international practices and ensuring Portugal's procedure in the European network of tissues of human origin. This change is justified by the need to regulate the quality and safety of the gift, the collection, the analysis, the processing, the preservation, the storage, distribution and the application of human-derived cell tissues. It should also be noted that this Commission directive refers to other technical requirements for the codification of tissues and cells of human origin and recognises that in order to facilitate traceability, it is necessary to establish a unique identifier for tissues and cells distributed in the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u79	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u80	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: I cannot begin this speech without expressing our strangeness, and even concern, for the allocation of only 3 minutes to each parliamentary group for the discussion of three such different bills between themselves and so relevant.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u81	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u82	This is a general discussion, it is true, but 3 minutes seem manifestly little to three subjects of this size.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u83	Madam Member, I am sorry to interrupt you, but the minutes were considered and agreed at the Leaders Conference, where the leader of your Parliamentary Group was also. I only say this so as not to get the idea that it is the President who determines the times for each point.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u84	That is not what I said, Mr President. I hope I've explained it well. I will, then, continue with my intervention, reiterating the strangeness of only being assigned 3 minutes, and thank you for discounting me later on the time of interruption. First of all, on the creation of the national oncology register, we naturally welcome the Government's move towards a step that the CDS has for so many years defended and, as can be read in its own bill, the need to create a national oncology register has since been recognized by the Assembly of the Republic through its Resolution No 44/2010. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as you will recall, this Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic was published following the adoption, in this House, of a draft resolution of the CDS which, among many other measures in the field of oncology, recommended to the Government the creation of a national oncology register. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u85	in general, this seems to us to be a good bill. Some questions are raised regarding data protection and therefore I believe that I can make sense, in the field of specialty, to listen to the National Data Protection Commission. We are also raised some questions regarding quality, not only the data collected, but also the practices and procedures involved. So, as we have said, in particular, there will be an opportunity to develop this and other issues. I now refer to Bill No. 32 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), which is transposed into Commission Directive 2015 / 565, and which relates to technical requirements for the codification of human tissues and cells. It refers to the proposed law which is also appropriate to establish the procedures to be followed by imported tissue and cell banks in their relations with their suppliers from third countries. In this regard, we are raised precisely the question of why the Portuguese Institute of Blood and Transplantation has not been heard in a matter which falls within the scope of its work. Therefore, we understand that, in the field of specialty, there is an absolute need to hear this institution. Finally, as regards Bill No 34 / XIII ( 2 ). a ), which creates the acts of biologist, nurse, pharmacist, doctor, dentist, nutritionist and psychologist, we understand that this is a matter that there is a great need for legislation. We wanted to take advantage here to greet all the professionals of the SNS who, with commitment and rigour, give their best for the health of the Portuguese, not even taking the millionaires wages that all the administration of the General Deposit Box will take. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Although it may be controversial, the definition of these acts has to be taken seriously and definitively.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u86	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u87	I am concluding, Mr. President. It seems to us that the bill, despite its generous efforts to move forward with this attempt at legislation, lacks much more comprehensive work and there are several clarifications that are required, in particular by all the orders involved. Having said that, we will not prevent this important debate, Mr President, from waiting for more detailed work to be done in the field of expertise. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u88	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State : Today we discuss three proposals for legislation on matters that are very different from one another, but in all respects the CFP understands as crucial to the National Health Service and to the provision of health care. In particular, we refer to aspects related to health professionals and to the technical and economic means allocated to the SNS and to bodies that will operationalize and implement the proposed legislation. Aspects that are sometimes not in the articulation of the law but which are and should, in the view of the PCP, be contemplated, as well as the issues of safety and quality in the matter of transplantation of human cells and tissues and the collection of their gifts. With regard to the proposal for a national cancer registration law, in view of the need to know, intervene and prevent oncological diseases — in fact, many significant data from the Portuguese population have to be recorded and analysed, in the sense of prevention, but also of treatment and follow-up — the CFP essentially follows the proposal presented here, but alerts Mr Secretary of State, to the imperative need that, in fact, access to personal data and sensitive data from patients who have those cancer records be safeguarded. with regard to the proposal on professional acts, the primates in the preamble — teamwork, multidisciplinary work, surgeries among professionals — are essential, understand the CFP, for the provision of quality health care. however, we note that, in the articulation, there is in fact no article that operationalizes and demonstrates this way of teamwork, multidisciplinaryity, and we believe that it is an aspect that needs to be improved, that needs to be improved, in the field of expertise. We also believe that the discussion around other professionals who are already part of the National Health Service should be deepened. I give the example of diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, for whom, despite their existence is mentioned in the preamble itself, and very well, there is no reference in the articulated. We speak not only of those who are integrated into the SNS but also of the other professionals who are not integrated into the SNS, on which this issue should be addressed and, above all, the relationship of these professionals with the SNS. As we said earlier, and knowing that the National Health Service continues to face serious financial, investment and human resources difficulties, it is very important that measures be taken to deal with such problems, measures, indeed, that are essential to the operationalization of the bills we are dealing with today. I shall finish by saying, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, who believe that the work in the specialty should incorporate the reflections, opinions and contributions not only of the parliamentary groups but of all those experts whom the Health Committee thinks well to call and which should be called because, in fact, there is a lot of work to be done here in these bills. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u90	Mrs Eurídice Pereira spoke on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The three proposed laws under review are in line with the main objective set by the Government in its Programme entitled « Defending the SNS, Promoting Health ». Bill No. 32 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), by transposing a 2015 European Directive, objectively strengthens the legal framework for guarantees of the quality and safety of the patient, in particular by technical deepening in the codification of tissues and cells, either as regards the way in which guarantees standards are observed for them when imported. If the proposal I have just referred to is the acceptance of a European guideline, the other two under consideration are decisions drawn up by the XXI Constitutional Government in order to ensure that the objectives set out in the field of health are met. National oncological registration is intended to be a fundamental tool in the design of the policy and in monitoring the results of the fight against cancer, enabling an appropriate assessment in which there are evident geographical, age or gender variations. in the scientific society that guides the best practices in health, it is today consensual that knowledge is a fundamental pillar in the design of effective health policies in combating diseases of the cancer forum. Thus, underlying this bill is the question of research, aware that it will enable it to contribute to a proper technical and scientific basis for clinical practice. This bill establishes a chain of computer-based access permits. On this issue, it is well known that there is a concern on the part of the Government not to leave such a delicate matter to chance, and it is desirable to deepen what is presented and that, if justified, the mechanisms for data protection are further strengthened, obviously in the field of expertise. This instrument is definitely strengthening epidemiological surveillance, which is also clearly expressed in the governance programme. Finally, Bill No 34 / XIII ( 2. a ) focuses on the act in health, with the aim of defining and regulating several, more specifically, seven acts, and also to shape the competences. by establishing perimeters of action it is possible to eliminate redundancy in the execution of certain acts in the field of health and consequently to achieve better cooperation in multidisciplinary teams. This initiative is parallel in the Government Programme, in particular in the "Improving the governance of the SNS " item. In short, these diploma proposals give continuity to the implementation of a government health programme which aims to strengthen security and increase the level of confidence in the system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u92	Mr André Silva also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Bill No 34 / XIII ( 2 ) a ), when defining and regulating the acts of biologist, nurse, pharmacist, doctor, dentist, nutritionist and psychologist, excludes from its scope other health professionals, such as professionals of non-conventional therapies, physiotherapists, podologists and optometrists, not contemplating any justification for this exclusion. We believe that this bill does not, in particular, define which of the competences of each professional and even creates conflicts of competence between the various occupational groups listed, as well as between these and non-conventional therapeutic professionals, who can perform functions similar to those mentioned in this initiative, without such mention being made. Thus, it is our opinion that this bill is generic and omissive and lacks improvement, so as to complete it with the professions in need, and if it is approved without these changes, we fear that it creates or aggravates conflicts in the relationship between the various health professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u94	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u95	Mr. President, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: I must say to you, Mr Secretary of State, that you did not expect to have to make an intervention like what I am going to do, but the disregard which we believe your government reveals by this House requires a clear, unequivocal position in which we cannot, of course, deal with the fact that everything is perfect. And I'm going to explain, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u96	PSD does not smoke the peace pipe!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u97	The Government has decided to present three bills to Parliament, one on the definition of the act in health, another establishing the national oncological record and a third on the quality and safety of tissues and cells of human origin. So far, there is nothing to be objected to, even because these are three matters of greater relevance, whose complexity would therefore require a serious analysis, a deeper reflection and a much more appropriate discussion time. But for this government, Mr. Secretary of State, that doesn't matter. Increasingly revealing a propensity for « The unsustainable lightness of being», you understand that a three-minute grid is excellent,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u98	It wasn't us who fixed it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u99	...in fact, it is even suited to discuss these three diplomas, with such different objects, all of them, in the same bag, as if someone expected 180 seconds to discuss such initiatives would be absolutely normal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u100	PSD didn't complain!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u101	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just about this House. To reduce the discussion about the medical act to this is to give little attention to the excellent work that health professionals have given to our country, and the same is true for initiatives on cancer registration and cells and tissues, which, discussed all in this way, seem to be of little importance, when for some patients what appears to be, generally, a detail is absolutely vital. As if it were not enough, the Government of Exa presented these proposals at 20 hours and 30 minutes last Friday, therefore waiting for the last minute for the last day, for the last minute, to inform Members of the matters that are under discussion here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u102	The PSD only needed the last minute to discuss the proposals! You spent 2 minutes claiming!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u103	Take it easy, Mr. Deputies. Could it be judged that the government did not have time for the diplomas to be duly analysed and approved and that it would have to be so, would it not? Oh, my God! But no, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! And the Secretary of State knows, as I do, that the Government approved these proposals more than a month ago, in that fantastic Council of Ministers of 15 September, but he decided to keep these texts - he knows why - and only now reveal them to the Assembly of the Republic. This, Mr Secretary of State, is not serious and reveals, in fact, a serious lack of institutional respect by this Parliament, which you are responsible for. And here, perhaps we should remember the behavior of the coalition parties, who were once so jealous of these parliamentary prerogatives and now on the customs, no one hears them. The PSD deeply regrets that this has been the case. However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what brings us here today, as I have said, are subjects that require a serious, serene and constructive approach to which the PSD is fully available. Therefore, we will not leave ourselves in the legislative process which will follow this discussion, to listen to all professional orders, to associations representing regulated professions and to all entities whose hearing each of the diplomas is required. The Minister of Health may have managed to escape this debate by reducing it to just 3 minutes...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u104	It is not the Minister who defines time, it is the Conference of Leaders!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u105	... and sending Mr. Secretary of State to represent him, but the PS will not be able to prevent this Assembly...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u106	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u107	I shall now conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, the Minister of Health may have managed to escape this debate, but the PS will not be able to prevent this House from fully exercising its legislative powers. And the PSD, Mr Secretary of State, is here, as you have always been, with a sense of responsibility, as when you are in government, as when you are in opposition, always privileged, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the public interest and, above all, the best interest of the patients. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u108	After all, Mrs Deputy's intervention was a criticism of the PSD itself!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u109	Madam Member, I would also like to inform you, as I did recently, during the speech of Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, that the times allocated for each debate are agreed at the Leaders' Conference, are not times given by either the President of the Assembly of the Republic or by the Government when it comes to bills. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are times that are agreed and, therefore, if there had been obstacles to these times, it would certainly have been possible to obtain another consensus.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u110	Mr President, may I apologize to the Bureau for an appeal?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u111	With all the sympathy, Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u112	Mr President, I just want to mention that, of course, we are not saying that it was you who chose the grid. What happens is...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u113	The grid is from the Conference of Leaders, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u114	I know, Mr President, the PSD is fully aware that this is the case, what we are discussing is whether these important diplomas should be discussed at this time. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u115	It is a matter that should have been brought forward by the respective leaders of the parliamentary groups, the President can do nothing. In fact, if there are those who send on the grids, even if they are not specialists in « grilled»,... [[Laughing.]] ...is Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco, who makes the proposals, and usually very well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am not being irresponsible - I am just saying that, without Mr Duarte Pacheco's contribution to the Leader Conferences, we would have much more difficulty in solving this and other problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u116	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u117	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Starting with Bill No. 32 / XIII ( 2. a ), it transposes a European directive and is in fact a directive that responds to the finding of a reality, which is that of the transplants of human cells and tissues being a rapidly growing area in medicine, being a very large potential for human health, but also entailing a high risk of infection. This directive, therefore, by uniformizing procedures, by increasing the demand for harvesting, storage and also for the transport of human cells and tissues, certainly deserves the reception of the Left Block, regardless of whether, in particular, we can work on the proposal, because with it, the quality of these procedures is strengthened and, above all, the safety of the transplanted users and patients. On the creation of the national oncological register, the proposal of a national registry of this type has several positive aspects, the first of which is to allow, once and for all, to have a photograph of that which is the incidence and prevalence of certain types of cancer, whether by region or sex, or by age, but also to allow to conclude by some cause/effect relationships with certain environments and regions. This is positive, just as it is positive to evaluate the effectiveness of certain treatments that are made to certain types of cancer. however, this proposal involves some risks, including a high risk of privacy invasion and a high risk of potential discrimination, namely, of course, if data fall into the wrong hands or if complete confidentiality is not guaranteed. Therefore, in the field of expertise, we will be available to help improve this proposal, in particular to ensure better confidentiality and greater and better security of data from the national cancer register. In conclusion, on the proposed law on the act on health, it deserves many and well founded doubts, because the definition of the act in these professions is too comprehensive and insufficiently operationalized, because it can lead to overlapping definitions and conflict between professions and because it leaves out several professions, some of which even work side by side with doctors, nurses, dentists, and are not recognized here, and some others that, being recognized by law as health activities, as professions in the field of health, are not recognized here either. So this can pave the way for a conflict between professions...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u119	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u120	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, this can open the way to a conflict between professions that do not seem to us to be useful to users and that it does not seem to us to be useful for the provision of health care. We believe, therefore, that this bill should be of the utmost caution and that it should deserve a very thorough discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u121	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u122	... so that it can be improved and not in any way deteriorate the provision of health care in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u123	Mrs. Members, we conclude the joint assessment, in general, of the proposals of lein. 32 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 33 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 34 / XIII ( 2. ( a). Let us now also, in general, appreciate Law No 38/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves standards for the protection of citizens from involuntary exposure to tobacco smoke and measures to reduce demand related to dependence and cessation of consumption, covering the concept of smoking new non-burning tobacco products that produce aerosols, vapours, gases or inhalable particles and strengthening measures to apply to these new products in the field of exposure to environmental smoke, advertising and promotion. For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u124	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: The proposed law currently under discussion is the second amendment to Law No 37 / 2007 of 14 August 2007. This change is justified by the need to update the prevention strategies associated with smoking. In Portugal, tobacco consumption is the first cause of avoidable morbidity and mortality, and it is estimated to contribute to the death of more than 10 000 people per year. It should be noted that lung cancer represents more than 20 % of deaths caused by cancer and that tobacco remains the main cause, with 85 % of deaths due to lung cancer directly or indirectly attributed to tobacco. In 2014 lung cancer was responsible for more than 19 000 years of lost life in Portugal. It is worth reflecting on these data! in this sense, Law No. 37 / 2007, amended by Law No. 109 / 2015, approved standards for the protection of citizens to involuntary exposure to tobacco smoke and demand reduction measures related to the dependence and cessation of their consumption. however, the legislative process must monitor the technological development, industry and its products, with respect to the principles of caution and proportionality. This is the case with new non-burnt tobacco products. They are not known, in a robust and scientifically proven way, all the effects that may arise from the continued consumption of these new products, either in smokers or in individuals who have never smoked, in diseases with a latency time of several decades. in this sense, in the context of public health protection, this bill monitors and regulates the trade of these products, prohibiting their consumption in the same places where smoking is prohibited, in accordance with good international practices. In addition to prevention measures aimed in particular at the protection of people who do not want or cannot stop smoking, it is also essential to ensure the protection of the individual freedom of other citizens, especially those who are younger and most vulnerable. Thus, it is important to strengthen measures that reduce exposure to environmental tobacco smoke, particularly in health care and education establishments such as hospitals or schools, as well as in environments where children remain, such as children's parks, following best international practices with weighting but in the defence of public health. This approach should be complementary to the strategic priority set by the Government to promote health literacy. It is urgent to train citizens to take responsibility for making informed decisions about their lifestyles. In short, this diploma provides for a set of preventive approaches aimed at protecting the health of citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u125	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u126	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a fundamental previous issue and it must be made very clear at the beginning of this debate: the harms of tobacco consumption in individual health and public health are indisputable. As we all know, tobacco consumption is the main preventable cause of disease and death and has high social, economic and health costs associated. Thus, it is essential to act at the level of prevention, deterring the beginnings of consumption, and it is also essential to contribute to the reduction of incalculable damage, suffering, loss of quality of life and the years of life that are lost and that are associated with tobacco consumption. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u127	As we know, prevention contributes decisively to reducing the burden of disease, including when we are talking about passive smokers. The bill we are discussing raises a number of questions, both at the content level and at the level of its opportunity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u129	And we question, of course, your opportunity. We fear that these changes will result in precipitation, since due monitoring and evaluation of the effects on the first changes to the tobacco law of 2007 have not yet been made, which entered into force on 1 January 2016. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, please send us caution that there is an area of maturation time on the legislation that has been reviewed, so that there will not be a succession of legislation without prior evaluation of the results. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u130	Moreover, as we know, the law itself which entered into force provides for an assessment report on its impact on public health at the end of five years, which, at the end of nine months, obviously has not yet occurred. We therefore miss the rush and fear this precipitation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u131	I would also like to raise a second question: we do not know what the long-term harm of unburned tobacco is, which produces aerosols, vapours, gases or inhalable particles, and which are the subject of this bill, but it cannot be said, in the long term, that it does not harm health. We therefore believe that there is a lack of long-term studies to verify the real effects of tobacco without short, medium and long-term combustion on health and to what extent their consumption should be limited or allowed. A third question arises, which deals with the risk reduction approach. We understand that although, in the explanatory statement, it is said — and I shall read — that "even though the approaches to reducing damage, through the provision of tobacco products at modified risk, may have their interest, in particular for people who do not want or cannot stop smoking" there is no consequence of this statement in the joint, namely by establishing a differentiation for such products without combustion and tobacco, which obviously has greater harm.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u132	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u133	I conclude by saying that the CDS-PP is absolutely sensitive to the issue of prevention and combating smoking, but we are also sensitive to harmonising the exercise of individual freedoms, with the preservation and protection of the common good. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u134	And, in this sense, as has been customary in the CDS-PP, we will guarantee freedom of vote in this bench. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u135	Mrs Elza Pais of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u136	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members, I begin by saying that Portugal, by the hands of the Socialist Party, was a pioneer in the area of abuse, particularly with regard to drugs and drug addictions, with significant gains in individual health, with significant gains in public health and also in the safeguarding and dignity of the human person. We have been an example for the world and now we have to take advantage of this experience for this kind of dependence. We have done so - by valuing integrated strategies, at the level of prevention and risk reduction that were abandoned by the previous government - if they had not been and if they had been integrated in the revision of the law in 2015, we would probably not at this moment need to have this discussion. So we have made these advances and this bill, which prevents the control and consumption of tobacco, is introducing, for the first time, a risk reduction approach which is absolutely innovative and we praise the government for this. In other words, there are alternatives to tobacco consumption for those who do not want or cannot stop smoking and tobacco without combustion is one of them. in the United Kingdom experiences are ongoing, with a significant decrease in tobacco consumption and contributing to saving lives, without loss of rights, freedoms and guarantees and with gains for individual health and public health for all of us. To do so, it is essential to make a bet, and this bet has to do with the PS matrix in this matter. A bet on risk prevention and reduction strategies and disclosure of information, which must, indisputably, be improved so that people can make informed consumer decisions or not, always safeguarding public health, which has and must be protected. This proposal should not only, in the view of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, take this approach but go even further and deepen it. That is why we have every opportunity to make significant progress in the field of speciality with regard to this matter. As for restrictions on smoking outdoors in the vicinity of educational establishments and in the immediate vicinity of health services, it seems to us, Mr. Secretary of State, for available scientific evidence, that outdoor smoking does not involve public health issues, especially since there is smoke without combustion. Therefore, these restrictions may, in our view, not be justified unless they are justified by public health reasons. Therefore, we also consider that this issue should be discussed with specialists in the field of expertise, and the PS presents its full availability to do so and to find the best ways to reduce consumption, to safeguard public health and to safeguard the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens, which under no circumstances can jeopardise the public health of all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u137	Mr João Ramos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The CFP has been affirming throughout the tobacco legislative processes that measures that promote smoking cessation and reduce exposure to smoke by non-smokers are estimated. It was with this concern that the CFP was positioning itself in these legislative processes. The last legislative amendment took place one year ago, so it is very little time to be able to make an assessment of the amendments introduced which could withstand new amendments. On the other hand, the ban on sale through databases, electronic customer records or other customer loyalty techniques seems to us to be positive. With regard to improving the reduction of exposure to smoke, particularly by extending the perimeter of places where smoking is prohibited, it does not deserve our opposition, recognizing that it can be difficult to verify. This is a matter that clearly arouses many passions and therefore easily falls into fundamentalisms, which will certainly not be good advisors in decision making. The CFP believes that promoting smoking cessation and reducing non-smoker exposure are important elements to reduce these consumption and dependence. in the discussion on this subject, the CFP alerts to the need to provide professional responses to those who want to quit smoking and, despite existing programmes, guidelines and responses, there are still many smokers and portions of national territory who have no response in follow-up to the cessation of this consumption of dependence. More needs to be done in the National Health Service in order to be able to extend the answers to all those who need and want to access professional follow-up on termination. As regards the reduction of exposure, we believe that important steps have been taken in this area, particularly in the prohibition of smoking in closed enclosures, which seemed inexhaustible, but today it seems unthinkable to smoke in closed places. This legislative amendment, in line with the previous amendment, equates alternative mechanisms and processes with conventional tobacco consumption. It is true that this discussion may be conditional on the production capacity of studies by the tobacco industry, far above the production of studies by States or health services, and this means only that we have to strengthen the production capacity of independent studies. But we also need to be careful to see if there are mechanisms, processes or devices that, being tobacco consumption, do not represent a risk reduction for the smoker and for those who may be exposed to smoking. And if there is a different risk, should we treat what is different in the same way? Should we or should we not be better aware of the contribution of alternatives to conventional tobacco to the process of the release of tobacco dependence? I know that there are many doubts, but your clarification may be very important in the decision of the road ahead so that fewer and fewer young people have contact with tobacco, to reduce consumption and exposure to tobacco and thereby mitigate the effects of one of the greatest causes of death and morbidity. The CFP Parliamentary Group hopes that the specialty process will clarify the doubts and is available to make its contribution in this process. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u139	For an intervention, Mr Luís Vales has the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State : Bill No 38 / XIII ( 2 ) a ), which we discussed, it is proposed to amend the law of tobacco, which had already been amended a little more than one year ago by Law No 109 / 2015 of 26 August. It would send the common sense that, before making further amendments to the Law, the effects of the amendments introduced about a year ago would be assessed and then, after this analysis, it will change it to improve. But, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as my colleague Mrs Angela Guerra has already said, it is not acceptable for the Government to take a month to refer to Parliament bills which it adopted in the Council of Ministers in mid-September, and then to do so on a few days of its debate in plenary. This is not a mere formality, Mr. Secretary of State, it is a matter of respect between sovereign bodies, of the Government towards the Assembly of the Republic. Having said this, this bill, which we do not doubt that it has the purpose of defending public health, lacks a deep reflection, insofar as it runs the risk of power, even boosting an investment in the way of combating smoking that the country has followed, especially in recent years. This is the result of the comparison between conventional tobacco and new non-burning tobacco products. If we follow the concerns that these new products may undermine the motivation of current smokers to stop smoking, we are not afraid that the application of rules on the prohibition of smoking in certain places may also compromise the motivation of current smokers of such non-burnt tobacco products to stop smoking, but do not rule out that, where appropriate, they may fall into the smoke of conventional tobacco. which has just been mentioned adds that it seems arbitrary to us to establish a minimum distance of 5 meters for the prohibition of smoking in relation to the doors or windows of establishments where health care is provided, places for children under 18 years of age or educational establishments. Mr. Secretary of State, why 5 meters and not 6 meters, or 10 or 15? Does the government have any scientific basis that supports its choice, or is the 5 meters just what it seems, that is, a pure arbitrariness? And there also depends, perhaps, on the strength of the wind or breeze, which is more or less strong. And why is it only in the case of schools or health units and not, for example, in the homes and other institutions that welcome elderly or disabled persons or incapacity, in which smoking is simply not prohibited in the surrounding areas of the doors or windows of their buildings? Is this a differentiation that the government intends to introduce between patients, minors or students, on the one hand, and among the elderly or disabled, on the other? Is it no longer worth protecting the elderly and the disabled? In short, the PSD aims to protect citizens from involuntary exposure to tobacco smoke, but we have doubts as to whether the proposed solutions actually meet this objective or are not even counterproductive, at least in the way they are formulated. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is with good sense and balance that we protect the right to health of citizens, it is not with measures that seem to us somewhat arbitrary and that, in addition, involve sanctions that are manifestly excessive, thus compromising the credibility of the proposal itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u141	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u142	Finally, Mr President, it seems to us that, here, more than punishment and sanctions, the next path should be prevention, the awareness of young people so that they do not start smoking and the least young people to effectively stop smoking. in this case, positive reinforcement is increasingly effective and this would be the way we would prefer to be here today to discuss. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u143	Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is obvious that we will all recognize that tobacco consumption is a risk factor and a cause of avoidable death, as has already been mentioned. however, we also recognize that new products have been introduced by the industries, precisely to try to circumvent a series of legislation and to encourage other types of consumption, of the same substances or similar substances. The law should therefore monitor the introduction of these new products, made by industry, into the market. It must follow this introduction in a logic to promote public health, as is obvious. For us, it seems much more effective to promote public health if we ensure that the consumer or the future consumer has access to the information necessary to decide in consciousness whether or not he wants to consume a particular product and also know in consciousness what the consequences of his decision and his act of consuming a particular product are. It therefore seems good to us that these new products introduced into the market must reflect on their packaging, for example, what substances make up them and what the consequences of the consumption of these substances are. Just as it seems good to us to be restricted to acts of advertising and aggressive marketing that seek to loyalize consumers and that often even pass misleading messages about the harmless act that is the consumption of a particular product. This kind of restriction seems good to us, too, to advertising and marketing. however, we already have more doubts about the enlargement of places of ban, until the rule and framework is applied, which is suggested in the bill, there can be a great restriction in the public, for example. It is therefore necessary to find a balance in this bill between the right of those who, whether or not a smoker, do not want and must not be exposed to the smoke of other people and be a passive smoker, but at the same time respecting the right of those who are legitimately consumers of one of these products and who cannot, in a relatively arbitrary way, see their freedom restricted on a public basis and are still subject to certain fines if they exercise their right to consume a tobacco product on a public basis. I therefore believe that this balance is what is lacking in this bill. Of course, it must be quite improved, it is obvious that we are available for this improvement and for the clear discussion of this bill, which seems to us to be fundamental in this bill. Then, and in conclusion, it is obvious that this proposal should not be viewed in isolation and of course it must be accompanied by other measures of prevention, promotion, strengthening, even by the Directorate-General of Health, priority programmes and tobacco scrapping programmes, and it is essential that these measures be followed in parallel. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u145	To close the debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of questions have been asked here about why this legislative proposal is now being given a chance. As such, I should point out that the subject matter of this diploma is completely different from those which included the first amendment which was adopted last year. Therefore, being totally different issues, it makes no sense to expect a set of years sufficient to assess and monitor the impact of this first legislative amendment, because it is on topics different from those that are now being placed here. I think it was very important that we all pay attention to this. The second question raised here concerns the restriction of smoking in access to hospitals and schools, in particular. I must say that, in this context, we are not innovative, we are following good international practices and, if you are the Members. Ladies and gentlemen are curious to see, in other countries there is this same restriction...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u147	Mr. Secretary of State, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u148	Mr. President, I will finish. I said that in other countries there is the same restriction, with exact values, from the point of view of this legislation, which explains why we are following their practices. Just to finish, with regard to the questions of Mr Ramos and Mr Moisés Ferreira, I would like to say that, on our part, we stress that prevention measures are fundamental. And, in this case, smoking cessation consultations and increased health literacy are priority of the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-19.u149	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this plenary meeting. The next meeting will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. with one point on the agenda. By marking the PCP, we will generally discuss draft law No. 310 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extension for 10 years the deadline for the implementation of the New Urban Rent Scheme for renters with Gross Annual Report ( RABC ) less than five Annual National Minimum Remunerations ( RMA ), for renters aged 65 or over or with a disability equal to or greater than 60 % and for non-residential lease ( PCP ), which may be voted on at the end of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 30 minutes.]]
