ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities opening the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a agenda with several points. I give the floor to Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, to do the favor of reading the file. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Bill No. 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure ( ALRAM ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; drafts of lein 130 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establishs a system of sufficient digital format for the delivery of works, theses and dissertations ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 131 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Legal arrangements for the hiring of scientific research personnel in training ( CFP ), which are lower than 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u3	The first item on the agenda is an urgent debate required by the PSD Parliamentary Group on the privatisation of the TAP and the amendments to the contract that signed the alienation by the State of 61 % of the capital of the TAP to the Atlantic Gateway consortium. To open the debate, you have the floor, on behalf of the requesting Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u4	Mr President, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: on 18 December, in Brussels, Prime Minister Antonio Costa stated, and I quote, « The State will resume 51 % of the capital of TAP. If it doesn't agree, it's no deal. '51 % for good or evil. Saturday, with more pump but less circumstance, the country watched one more dusty round of the saga « the word given is an honest word » : « The state will have 50 % of the capital of TAP. 50 % is not exactly the same as 51 %, but it may be that no one understands this whim», Antonio Costa has thought with his buttons. « Moreover, I, Antonio Costa, who was already in the Government of Eng.o Guterres who decided to privatise TAP in the 1990s, who was Minister in the First Government of Eng.o Socrates and number two of the Socialist Party, when we entered the PEC and the Memorandum of Understanding the privatisation of TAP, I, Antonio Costa, who in 2012 even defended the integration of TAP into a large Latin American company, and I, Antonio Costa, who finally arrived at the leader, yes, was directly against privatization, so that my electoral programme was the second most voted in the elections, I, Antonio Costa, with this curriculum in the TAP, will now be concerned if they are 50 % or 51 %? Oh, my God! » — you will have thought of Antonio Costa with his buttons. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was hilarious, if it wasn't tragic, to look at the Socialist Party's zighuzag, revenger about TAP: first, it was in favour of privatization; then it was against privatization; then it was in favour of a minimum of 51% of the capital; hat! Finally, something that no one had ever remembered: 50 % and special parasocial conditions and agreement. The government seems to validate the previous government's strategic decisions: it maintains the private partner, maintains the company's development plan and maintains the selling price. And I even laugh at the proclamation of one of the members of the private consortium, who said: « The TAP remains a private company». Now, in the midst of so many contradictions, the doubts that arise are more than many: how much is this beer and this whim by Dr. António Costa? Then there's an agreement, or there's a memorandum of understanding, of two and a half pages, what does it look like? This operation makes TAP what? A public company? A private company? Or a public-private partnership, as the Communist Party says? Minister, has this agreement been changed to what? What was offered to each member of the Atlantic Gateway consortium? And who's really going to send to TAP? Is it the State? Are they private? Will the state participate in the capitalization of the company? Is it true that the State will subscribe to EUR 30 million of obligations which have so far been the sole responsibility of the private sector? Is it true or a lie, Minister? And who will be responsible for renegotiating the company's debt with the bank? Is it the State? Are they private? Are they both, together and by hand? How will this be done, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u5	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u6	So far, the taxpayers put zero, zero euros in the company! And the risk was 100, 100 % private! What now? Does the State respond by 50 % of the risk? Is that what is at stake in this agreement or pseudo-agreement? Does the State place at least EUR 31, EUR 9 million in exchange for 18, 75 % of the company's economic rights? Is that it, Minister, which is designed for TAP?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u7	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u8	And who will the state administrators be? Are you going to be political commissioners of the Socialist Party? Can you also forward something here, or confirm the news that has come to the public on this matter, Minister? And one last question: the Government does not know for certain, it cannot ignore, Decree-Law No 133 / 2013. in this Decree-Law, there is an obligation which imposes on such processes the obligation of an opinion of the Technical Unit for Monitoring and Monitoring of the Public Business Sector ( UTAM ), which applies to repurchasing operations by the State. Mr. Minister, does that opinion exist? Can you offer it to the Assembly of the Republic and to the Members? It was important to see whether the document existed and whether it could be known to the Portuguese and the Members. Mr Minister, this is the opportunity we give you to explain further this « management », a new « management ». You have the floor, therefore, to demonstrate how the public interest in this agreement is guarded, how the strategic interests underlying the operation of TAP are guarded. The government has played a major role in the change in what, Minister? What do you charge for the public record and taxpayers?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u9	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u10	By truly preventing what is in the interest of the State, these are the questions to which it is important to answer. You have the floor for that, Minister. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u11	I confirm what Mr Luís Montenegro has said: you have the floor to speak on behalf of the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u12	It was the only truth he said!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the Government Programme, we have taken the aim of regaining the majority position of the State in the TAP, in accordance with the commitment we had made electorally. As it is known, the contract of direct sale to private shareholders had occurred when the previous government had already been dismissed in this Chamber, without the political legitimacy that a decision of this importance required,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u14	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u15	... and knowing, in fact, at the time, that government that the elected majority was opposed to the realization of this business. The current government has always understood that the process, as it had been conducted, was not closed, but above all involved serious risks to the public interest. TAP was, at that time, a largely private company and, if nothing was done, it would certainly be totally private two years later. The State was outside of all fundamental management decisions for the future of the company and for the public interest and, worse, if the company's situation worsened, it would be obliged to receive it back, decapitalized, in breach of its obligations, with consequences impossible to measure, but above all to control, since we would attend everything at a distance, without intervention power that would not go through serious judicial disputes. The Government has thus taken the initiative to invite private shareholders to start discussions with a view to recomposing TAP's share capital. The negotiations took place in a spirit of good negotiation and goodwill between the parties, and it was possible, in just over two months, to carry out what others said was impossible. In fact, last Saturday, the Government signed a memorandum of understanding with private shareholders, which allows the State to defend national strategic interests in the TAP. With this agreement, the State will detain 50 % of the capital, private shareholders will have 45 % of the capital and workers will be able to subscribe to up to 5 %. The shares that workers do not acquire will be bought by that private shareholder. But I repeat, the state will be the largest shareholder, with 50% of the capital. We will have a joint representation on the board of directors, but no strategic decision for the company will be taken without the agreement of the parties. In other words, we have recovered, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we always want: no decision relevant to the future of the company will be taken without the agreement of the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the agreement signed, the Government was able to ensure the most important: an effective presence in the future of the company and the defence of the national interest. The State will continue to have a decisive role in defining the strategic plan of the company, ensuring the maintenance and development of the hub, the connection to the Lusophonia, the continuity of the TAP brand and its association with Portugal. The Board of Directors shall ensure the implementation of the strategic plan, and it shall be responsible for the decision on important matters, which are not of the company's current management. However, TAP will continue to have private executive management, which is certainly guided by criteria of economic rationality, as must also happen in such a competitive market as air transport. The day-to-day management of the company will be the responsibility of the executive committee, although linked to the strategic plan validated by the government and accompanied by the board of directors. The agreement reached allowed the presence of a private reference shareholder with a capitalisation capacity and fundamental to the survival of TAP. In a liberalized market, the State was unable to capitalise on the company. He therefore needed a private shareholder to inject capital into the company, making it viable and enhancing its development.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u16	Not supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u17	We have achieved it, in common with the private consortium, the Atlantic Gateway consortium, without litigation and respecting the foreign investment which Portugal needs. From now on we will work side by side in the construction of the future of the TAP, with a decisive word of the State in fundamental decisions, which will be taken not only today and tomorrow, but from here to 2, 10 or 30 years. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conclusion, the Government thus guarantees the permanence of the TAP, a strong TAP, which sustains our presence in the world and will continue to contribute actively to the growth of the Portuguese economy. Once again, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have fulfilled our commitments with the Portuguese and the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u18	Zero answers!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u19	Let's move on to the first round of interventions. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u20	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members, Minister, we all know that phrase which says there is no second opportunity to make a good impression. Well, Minister, you have now had a first opportunity to make a good impression and you continue to fail to respond fully to Parliament and the country. What are the contours, what is the substance and what are the implications of the agreement that the Government has concluded with Gateway to stay with 50% of the capital of TAP? Questions remain unanswered. What justifies this agreement beyond a whim of Mr. Prime Minister? What is the use of the State 50% of the capital if it is the privates who send in the TAP? How much will it cost taxpayers more this socialist whim? With the solution that the previous government implemented, the taxpayers put zero euros in the company and the risk was on the side of the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u21	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u22	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u23	Now they put EUR 31, EUR 9 million and the risk passes to the state. Mr. Minister, why and for what? How is it possible that this government has signed an agreement in which it has more actions but does not send, puts more money but receives less? The truth of this negotiation is that the private, instead of receiving 61 % of the profits, receives 76, 25 % and the taxpayers, instead of collecting 34 % of the profits, are only 18, 75 %. And this, after taxpayers are called to put more 31, 9 million euros on TAP to relieve the private in the same proportion. How is it possible to reject a privatization in which profits were distributed to those who had the capital, the change in a situation in which the State buys 50 % but does not send, has an illegal quality vote but not profit? Mr Minister, it is therefore imperative that the Government fully explain the counterparties, the commitments and the charges of this new position. I repeat, Minister: what are the counterparties that the government has promised to shareholders? What are the commitments you made in the business? What are the charges for taxpayers?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u25	If the State does not send the company or its management options, if the company is private but the risk is public and the money is the taxpayers, it is legitimate to think that this effort to which the Portuguese are called with the relief of the private is no longer useful than to put the men in hand and the political commissioners and supporters of the current Prime Minister within the airline. These are at least the conclusions that are being made known to us through the social communication.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u26	At least it seems!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u27	A few days ago I asked the Minister, in committee, how the State would pay the services of Dr. António Costa's so-called 'friend emissary' in negotiations with the private sector and what kind of people who were strangers to the State would enter into such a negotiation process. I didn't get any answers. Today we know the answer, Minister : the Prime Minister's friendly emissary, with a past linked to the worst ever business of the TAP, the Brazilian Maintenance and Engineering, to whom the Government of Eng.o José Socrates, through Minister Mário Lino and Paulo Campos, bought his shares in the VEM Brazil against the will of the Ministry of Finance itself, now has his payment as administrator appointed by the State at the TAP. He was appointed to one of the six places the State requested that they be placed there for the benefit of the agreement in the context of negotiations on the future of TAP. And, as if this scenario was not questionable enough, the press also notes that the Prime Minister is preparing to appoint as President of the TAP the owner of such an illegal quality vote, the one to whom the private, in the thesis, has to go to ask permission to buy and sell: the Director-General of the Socialist Party. This is what the press says is going to be named president of the TAP. The man who deals with the human resources and money of the socialist machine and whose passage through the government was marked by his resignation, alongside Armando Vara, because of the scandal of the Foundation for Prevention and Security. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u28	Mr Minister, every day that passes, the perception that the PS government has developed a scheme to save the face, placing the PATT on an uncertain and turbulent route that can definitely compromise the company's future. Each passing day it seems that, basically, we are talking about EUR 31, EUR 9 million of taxpayers, the increase in the percentage of private profit, to the detriment of taxpayers. And the truth is this: we are talking about six places for administrators at TAP, where there seems to be room for everyone, without criteria and without ethics. Mr. Minister, the country needs and demands answers. Nothing will erase the first bad impression that has resulted in the explanation of the agreement the Government has concluded with Atlantic Gateway. But you now have a new opportunity to demonstrate to the Portuguese that this is no more than a whim of Dr. António Costa, a scheme to save the face that will be expensive to Portuguese taxpayers and that can tragically threaten the future of TAP. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u29	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u30	Mr President, Minister, on the day we are debating again the future of TAP, the first word of the PS Parliamentary Group is to greet the Government for today's decision in the Council of Ministers to assign the name of Humberto Delgado to Portela airport. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Although the PSD about this has not strictly said anything because little tells you the symbolism of the assignment of the name of Humberto Delgado to Portela airport,... [[PSD protests, with PSD member Emidio Guerreiro beaten with his hands at the end of the bench.]] ...is 51 years ago about the murder of Humberto Delgado, who was the founding president of the TAP. As such, this was a happy and fair decision of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] PSD intervention was the voice of bad conscience regarding the process of privatization of TAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was the voice of the bad conscience because you know that they provided bad public service by the way they tried to privatize most of the capital of TAP. The PSD and CDS always told us that there was no alternative to privatization of most TAP capital. You lie to the Portuguese, you lie to the country and this agreement signed between the government and the private consortium, which could have been signed four months ago, proves that there was an alternative. The Socialist Party has always argued that the State should be the biggest shareholder of the TAP, that capitalization should be made in partnership with the private, but who should send in the strategic future of the TAP would always be the State. You led the process of privatization in a speedy, untransparent way and in the secret of the cabinets. It is worth recalling that former Minister of Economy Dr. Pires of Lima stole whenever he was able to Parliament when TAP was discussed in the previous legislature and he always took refuge in the Secretary of State. on the other hand, it is no less said that it is the second time that the current Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, who has the responsibility and protection of the TAP, comes to Parliament in this Parliament to debate the TAP with the parliamentary groups, and even scheduled a third coming to Parliament, the Economic Commission, to discuss this matter. There is a totally contrary position to that of the former Government and the former Minister for Economic Affairs. It is a position that it has to lead this process with transparency and also in defending the public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u31	With transparency? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u32	Already in this legislature, the Socialist Party reported that the privatisation process that was being led by the previous TAP government was a process with dead angles and hidden information. After a few days after that debate, it was known that the TAP announced the end of the abolition of some routes from Lisbon airport and port airport, questioning up to the port hub, a strategic hub for the country and the north region. We trust that this agreement will again bring the importance that the airport of Porto has always had in the management of TAP, air transport in Portugal, to the North, with the former government, with privatization, achieved and allowed these routes to be deleted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD and CDS used TAP for political confrontation, social confrontation and parliamentary confrontation. You arrived at the summit to sign a privatisation contract the day after you were dismissed by this Parliament. You hastened to privatize TAP, knowing that there was a new parliamentary majority that was against your privatisation process, were dismissed by Parliament, but even so you stopped signing the privatisation contract. [[PSD protests.]] I perceive the bad conscience and the nervousness of the bad conscience,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...because whoever has to explain to the country are the gentlemen. [[PSD laughter.]] You have to tell the country why you have not promoted the agreement that this government has been able to promote four months ago and why you have signed a contract after you have been dismissed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u34	What was the matter? What information was he hiding in the secret of the cabinets? You have to explain to the country! You also have to explain to the country how, in the middle of privatization, they have appointed a new board of directors for the National Civil Aviation Authority (ANAC ) paying millionaire salaries. [[PSD protests.]] They have the opportunity to explain to the country why they appointed the board of directors and started paying them million dollars! You haven't explained yet! It's another explanation that you have to give about the TAP process! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u35	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for letting Mr. João Paulo Correia intervene. Apartes are natural, it is a perfectly natural figure, but the speaker has the right to speak quietly and thank that this would happen. Please continue, Mr. João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. I was talking recently about the million-dollar salaries of ANAC administrators, such political commissioners appointed by the former Government, PSD / CDS. This agreement reached by the current government meets the Socialist Party's electoral commitment. TAP, with this agreement, will always be protected. TAP is essential for national sovereignty. The state is the largest shareholder and will always have a decisive word in the company's strategic future. TAP is back in the hands of the state! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u37	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. and Members of the Government, the urgent debate for the PSD today to call us an invitation for an exercise not of the art of representation, formal, but of a parliamentary performance inspired by popular wisdom, which has long identified: « Look at what I say, do not look at what I do ». The history that the PSD brings us is simple: to revisit the process of « re-reprivement» of TAP and to enclose a narrative that, by means of smoke curtains, try to « fight and give again », as Humberto Pedrosa confessed at the exit of the recent agreement with the Government on adjustments in the actionist structure of TAP. « Look at what I say, do not look at what I do » — and the PSD states in its document that the privatisation of TAP in 2012 had been postponed by « an unfavorable international environment » but in early 2015, after a year in which TAP presented a technical bankruptcy situation of EUR 500 million, a liability of more than EUR 1000 million and a loss of EUR 85 million, the government to which you sent decided at the beginning of 2015 to relaunch the TAP sale process in a much more unfavorable national and international situation. The result was written in the stars: a sale at balance price, for « friends », for just over EUR 10 million. « Look at what I say, do not look at what I do» — the pretext of « urgent recapitalisation needs », the previous government announced an immediate capitalisation of EUR 150 million by the Gateway consortium but the « fresh money » that entered the TAP almost all over came a short-term loan of EUR 120 million by the national bank, in turn part of the restructuring of a loan of EUR 730 million, guaranteed not by Mr Neeleman's planes or by Mr Humberto Pedrosa's buses, but by the State. Because what is really in view of this is that the re-proprivement operation of the TAP in November 2015 and the following of the recent re-reprivement operation only served Mr Neeleman's interests for the recovery of his airline — the Blue — at the expense of the Portuguese public record. In fact, Mr. Neeleman's main asset — the Blue — has accumulated losses of EUR 63 million up to the third quarter of 2015, while it is known that the survival of the company is dependent on the Brazilian public bank, which has constituted one of Mr. Neeleman's financial support. The other support has been the national bank and the Portuguese state, which has been, and, by the way, will continue to be, the guarantor of this business, either in terms of liability or in terms of debt, meanwhile renegotiated. It has always been this way in big privatisation businesses: private companies buy companies not with their own money but with the assets of these companies or bank credit, with public guarantee. This is what is announced with the ground at the airport belonging to the TAP or with the recovery of the financial situation of Blue at the expense of the purchase by TAP of 17 aircraft that were inactive in Brazil and which were worth an cash of EUR 400 million, this value clearly overvalued against its real market value.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u39	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u40	in this respect, they all rise against the decisions of Mr. Neeleman and Fernando Pinto regarding the cuts of connections to the airport of Porto and the announced Porto-Lisboa air bridge in an operation whose results are highly doubtful and, above all, directly contrary to the interests of the populations of Porto and the northern region.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u41	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u42	I will now finish, Mr President. Even from the regional point of view, what is in view is that the only way to defend the public interest is the existence of a public TAP managed according to criteria of economic efficiency, certainly, but also managed on behalf of the public interest reflected not only in its inalienable role of being one of the main exporting companies, but also in the fact that it is an indispensable lever in the connection of Portugal with the PALOP community and with the Portuguese diaspora spread around the world. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u43	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, TAP is indeed a good brand and is, above all, a very important company for the national economy. The PSD/CDS Government has found a good solution for the TAP, which would protect taxpayers, guarantee the necessary capitalisation of the company, guarantee the hub in Lisbon, guarantee the connection to the Lusophony, guarantee the public service to the islands and safeguard the strategic importance of national airports.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u46	It was out of mere stubbornness and out of the will to undo that the Government of Exa put all this at risk. That is why, Minister, and because 'the word given is an honest word', as has already been mentioned, I want to ask you very specific questions because this debate deserves to be clarified. I ask you, Minister : in terms of best management and good management practices, how can a company be well managed by 50% / 50%?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u47	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u48	Is there a risk of permanent conflict paralysis or not? Or, then, there is something else that Mr Minister is hiding and that is why he has to say here clearly what is behind this.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u50	The agreement provides for, Mr Minister, the quality vote of the administrator on behalf of the Government. My question is this: can this be understood or not as a golden share? Yes or no? Please tell me about non-social accounts but well done accounts, how much the State will pay in the recapitalisation of the company.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u51	That's in revocable bills!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u52	What commitments will the State assume in the new renegotiation of bank debt?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u53	In non-socratic accounts!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u54	With this agreement, is it true or not that certain groups that could no longer have the power of pressure and blackmail before the State? Yes or no? What will be the State's involvement in the necessary renewal of the fleet of TAP? Can you confirm — by the way, I have already heard you say that yes — if the State triples the appointments of the administrators in the TAP? Now, Minister, let me ask you, and I also ask you to answer clearly: given the inconsistency of what the Socialist Party has said about ANAC, will you or will you not review the salaries of the administrators on a low basis?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u56	Let's first hear the former Minister of Economics and the former Minister of Finance. Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u57	Mr Minister, the previous government in the agreement opted for a simple criterion, that of the reversal to the State in case of failure to comply with the agreement made with the consortium Gateway. My question is very simple: does the State have the same clause in the agreement? Yes or no? I hope, Mr Minister, clear, simple and objective answers. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u58	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the previous government, PSD / CDS, over years on end, acted as TAP's main enemy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u61	It has suffocated the company; it has bound it to unacceptable constraints; it has conditioned its operational management; it has caused permanent instability; it has left the unsustainable business situation of the former VEM in Brazil, that they now speak; it has prevented the renewal of the fleet in the PGA, that they now speak, with the start of privatization; it has created the conditions for chaotic situations for the passengers and workers of the TAP (in particular in the summer operations) ; it has approved illegal and unconstitutional diplomas, already after the elections of 4 October, just in the opposite direction of what the PSD now says, i.e., assuming responsibility for the State, with public money, for the debt that TAP should have as a privatized company.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u63	The Government that cancelled the privatisation of TAP in 2012, claiming that the buyer did not have the necessary bank guarantees for TAP's debt, was the same government that guaranteed that debt to the new buyer in 2015 without any cost to the new buyer. Mrs. Members, in October, the State assumed a value which would amount to more than EUR 760 million of contingent debt, contrary to what is stipulated in the specification of charges, materially changing the conditions of the invitation to tender, already in direct sale within 24 hours, without authorization from the Assembly of the Republic and without any prior control. This is what happened in October, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, with the Government already resigned and in mere managerial functions, a new Resolution of the Council of Ministers ordered the Public Prosecutor to celebrate with Gateway the conclusion of the sale of the TAP, approving the minute of the privatisation agreement and determining immediate effects on the decision that should be signed at night. This is what happened when this matter was in the hands of the PSD/CDS government. [[CDS-PP protests.]] This is a small sample of the shameful curriculum that PSD and CDS present in relation to TAP. The same ones who are now outraged, convene debates and point their fingers at others for what caused them to be the direct ones responsible for the privatization of the TAP and for the situation to which the company arrived. [[PCP and PS applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these last few months have proved that such « difficulties» which made it « impossible» to capitalise TAP by the State, eventually only lasted as long as the government wanted. These last few months have proved and confirmed that we were right when we warned what would be the result of this privatisation and the entry of these interests into the company and its control. That is: the scandal of the business around the fleet of TAP with the planes; the scandal of the announcements in relation to the land of the TAP reduced ; the scandal with the subcontracting of the regular operation; the scandal of the attack on the collective hiring of workers; the 'capitalisation' made with the company's own resources. This solution presented by the current government has already merited the clear divergence of the CFP, which considers it to be—and is! — imperative to meet the needs of the country and to safeguard the future of TAP and national sovereignty. And that means not trying to legalize what is illegal, but, yes, cancel what has to be annulled and enforce the law, unlike the previous government which has repeatedly and consciously violated the law and the Constitution of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u64	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the various debates that took place in this House on this matter, the Greens always considered that the decision of the previous Government, PSD / CDS, to hand over to the private a company such as TAP was a colossal mistake. The size of the error that the privatisation of the TAP represented was so evident that it was worth the opposition of citizens of all political quadrants, which led, including, to the creation of movements to stop the process through the judiciary and also to the opposition of the workers, who organized themselves to present two petitions to the Assembly of the Republic with thousands and thousands of subscribers to challenge privatization. However, in isolation, the PSD/CDS Government continued with its purpose of delivering TAP to the private sector and, following the process, it presented us with a book of charges that was no longer a book of deceptions, a book of lies, in which, for example, the buyer was required to — stop! — win public tenders to ensure air connections to the regions of Madeira and the Azores. [[PSD protests.]] Now, to require the buyer to win public tenders is, in fact, something that only reminds a completely disoriented and completely obstinate government. But we don't stay here. The worst was yet to arrive, and arrived. It came with the formalization of privatization, a grossly illegal process because the PSD/CDS government consumed the sales business when it was in management—and therefore, without powers to do so—and consumed the business when it had already been resigned by this House, exorbiting widely its powers; illegal because it gave bank guarantees to the business, passing over its legal requirements; and illegal also because it sold TAP to buyers who, in the light of Community law, are prevented from buying, since effective control is required to be in the hands of national or Europeans, which is not clear and clearly the case. [[PSD protests.]] We are therefore in a very unclear and so unclear process that we can't even see where the public interest was in the middle of it. But then we heard the PSD question where the public interest is. That is what we should ask the former Government: where was the public interest in the sale of TAP to private people? [[PSD protests.]] This is, above all, a process full of illegalities and, if the process is filled with illegalities, its cancellation would, in our view, be the most correct path and solution that best guarantees the interests of the country and that better guarantees the future of the TAP. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with this enthusiasm, I see that they are also defending the annulment of the process! Now let's know! Nevertheless, we recognize that the current government, by maintaining the majority of capital in the public sector, naturally increases the possibilities for public control of decisions that are being taken by the administration of the TAP. Therefore, Mr Minister, we welcome the fact that TAP's strategic decisions now depend on the government. But it is important to ensure that there will be no diversion to other air transport companies, particularly to companies where one of the members of the Gateway has interests. We are talking about, for example, the possible sharing or diversion of routes; we are talking about any trade agreements that may benefit other companies, including companies where one of the members of the Gateway has interests and is in danger of the TAP. I would like to ask you, Minister, the following: in the context of the agreement that the Government has established with the consortium, is this matter guarded or guaranteed? If so, how?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u66	At the end of this first round, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, expressions such as « beer » or « teimosia » have been used here because what is at issue is too important for Portugal. The reason for our intervention on the TAP, the reason for our agreement with private shareholders was that the national public interest was not careful in the solution that the PSD and CDS Government left Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Otherwise, we see: they said here that the risk was in private. Mrs. Members, I agree with this statement, because the management was in private, the company went to the private and, two years from now, we would probably be zero in the company's capital and now zero in economic rights — and with this I reply to Mr Hélder Amaral — but with a little nuance: if things were going wrong, the company would return to the state under the conditions in which it was. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is no greater risk than that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! They're talking about costs and risks. So, you deliver a strategic company to Portugal, to Portuguese and to the Portuguese economy as is the TAP, take the state of the company at the end of two years, but, under the conditions in which they put it in the privatisation process, if it went wrong, it would return to the decapitalized state and in breach of obligations, and say that the risk is in the solution now found? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, yes, with this solution, the State will have a word to say, it will assume its position as a shareholder with 50 % of the company, as the largest shareholder of the company. The State will assume its responsibilities but will also have a decisive word in everything that is strategic for the company, such as: the approval of the strategic plan, in this case its amendments; the monitoring or monitoring of the implementation of the strategic plan; the setting of objectives; the establishment of management policies; the approval of the business plan and budget; the hiring of large amounts of transactions on liabilities or on the assets of the company above certain non- delegated milestones; the modification of the organisation of the company; the modification of the headquarters or fiscal household. They are matters in which, from now on, the word of the State will be indisputable in the process and which with you would be zero. With you the state would be out of TAP, from now on! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We in the TAP will be defending the interest of Portuguese and Portuguese from now on. We will be in a situation where we have 50 % of the capital — so the state will be the biggest shareholder — and we will be setting the appropriate rules for managing the relationship with private shareholders under the parasocial agreement, which is always held in these circumstances, and there all the doubts that Mr Hélder Amaral is very interested in seeing resolved will be duly resolved. And it is obvious that we will find good relations and good understanding because, from now on, the partnership between the State and private shareholders will be the rule in the implementation and strengthening of the future of TAP at the service of Portugal and Portuguese. We will also be involved, as the largest shareholder of the company, in the debt renegotiation process; we will certainly talk to the financial entities that have been lending loans to TAP for the purpose of restructuring the liability, because this is important to the company, but we have not made any commitments at this level, nor has the State made any additional commitments, than to be present in this renegotiation, because that is in the interest of TAP, it is in the interests of the company. The State will thus have an added role in critical matters such as those mentioned here. The State, from our point of view, has developed the best way to safeguard the future of the company. I would also like to make a reference to two matters. Mr Luís Montenegro, perhaps because of distraction, certainly, or perhaps because so many matters relating to the privatisation of TAP have been approved so quickly, I am very surprised that you are not familiar with the opinion of the UTAM, which you cited here. It is that in the time when you were still a government, in the pre- privatisation phase, UTAM itself said, in relation to the whole privatisation process under which those phases were made—and this was done under the Privatization Decree-Law—that this decree-law repealed the decree-law which obliges the UTAM to appear. It is a document of the UTAM, of your time and that you don't know, and that's why you came here to raise a question that doesn't make any sense. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at this stage, I would like to end with a reference to a question by Mr João Paulo Correia on the question of Porto, which has been very controversial these days, to once again clearly state the government's position on this matter. With this negotiation process, Portuguese in general will be served and well served by TAP. The port will continue to be a relevant basis for TAP operations, from now on Mr Deputy. But we are not going to interfere in the decisions of the executive committee on routes or frequencies. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Calm down, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, calm down! Maybe it's worth hearing! Maybe they like to be careful now. I would like to tell you, Mr President, that I look very carefully at the availability which today the consortium has shown me to maintain and strengthen dialogue with economic agents and with the regional authorities in favour of TAP, in favour of service to Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u68	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going into the second round of speeches. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Mr. Virgílio Macedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the reasons why the public came to buy 11 % of the TAP were that this company was strategic for the country. The Minister himself said that the government would have an unmistakable word about the TAP strategy in the future. But at the same time, he also said that the government — still now, he said — would not interfere with the definition of routes, that this is a matter for the executive committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u70	Privatization interfered! There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u71	But, Minister, what is the strategic management of the airline anyway? It is not the definition of hubs, it is not the definition of routes, is it not the definition of the markets that serve? What are the strategic issues that effectively interest the government in the TAP? If it is not to have a word in these matters, what is the interest of the investment being made by the Portuguese taxpayers? What we know is that this state investment will cost the Portuguese taxpayers EUR 32 million. It is EUR 32 million to buy 11 % of TAP to meet a whim of Dr. António Costa and to appoint six administrators on the board of directors. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u72	It is effectively loaded that it is not yet known what are the objectives of this capital repurchasing in the TAP, but names are already known for the board of directors. They're priorities, Minister! Mr Minister, allow me to ask you whether or not you agree with the option being made by the TAP executive committee in order to abandon, empty the port airport. I am concerned about your statements that you are not going to intervene in this route definition. Does this mean that it agrees with the strategy that is being followed by the company? For the government is the airport of Porto strategic or not? As a future shareholder of 50 % of the capital of TAP, will you or will you not intervene and recommend that you keep routes from port?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u73	Now you want some? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u74	Is it reasonable that a businessman in the north of the country who wants to travel to Barcelona, Milan, Rome, Brussels, to export, to create wealth to our country, has to leave his home in the morning and arrive at the destination in the middle of the afternoon and on the return have the same difficulties because he has to scale up in Lisbon?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u75	That's self-criticism!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u76	Is this attempt to drain passengers from Porto airport to Lisbon not a way to justify the possible construction of a new airport in Lisbon? Will this Government of the Socialist Party not recover what the other Government of the Socialist Party wanted, which was to build a new airport in Lisbon and a third crossing over the Roof? Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, this 11 % repurchasing process of the capital of the TAP is another process of this government, it is another tedious process of a modest government. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u77	On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, this debate called for with urgency... Moreover, the call that the PSD has for urgency is an incredible thing: ask for an urgent debate, made a TAP sale process urgently... So urgent, so urgent, that the only difference between that urgency and today's is that today is day and the other day was night! [[PSD protests.]] In fact, with this agreement the public interest is safeguarded, because the State is back to the capital of TAP. If you say that having 50% is nothing or nothing, what happens if the state has less than 50%, which is still less than 50%? The State is the largest shareholder of the TAP and who says that the share of capital is 50 % / 50 % and insists and insists that it is 50 % / 50 % is because it devalues the position of the workers, which, in fact, is not new.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u80	This is a case in which, in fact, you have the capital of workers in favour of the private sector and, more importantly, they do an even better exercise, i.e. VV. Ex.as they understand, it is not known why water load, that private people who are essential to the economy are better to defend the public interest than the public itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u82	This government has demystified the single strategy, the unique path, the unique sense of the capitalisation of TAP. It was possible to demonstrate today that there was another way of capitalizing the TAP and it was not better only because you swallowed the State, induced the State into a mistake, a achievement that could not be undone in any other way. The solution found is a denial of the unique and unalternative forms that pointed, within two years, to the complete exit of the State of TAP. That's what you guys wanted. The great difference, the difference between this side of the right-hand side and this side of the left-hand side is that while you wanted a TAP without the State and the State without a flag airline, of reference, without a Portuguese airline to serve Portugal and the Portuguese,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...we defend the country, we defend national companies, we defend the sector and public service and we defend the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u83	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the curiosity of this urgent debate is that the PSD is asking the Government of the Socialist Party to correct the excesses that the PSD itself has negotiated with the private... [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] ... so that, in essence, a sensible attitude is taken, which is to safeguard the public interest and national interest in the management and development strategy of the TAP. It is, in fact, an evolution of this debate, which began with great focus but which basically ended with a path exit, which cannot fail to be resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u85	That of the "road exit" will have a lot to tell you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u86	In any case, what is most important is that we consider that the government does not have to ask for favors from the private consortium, it has to assume, in fact, the position of majority shareholder in the company...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u88	... and to be able to interfere, where appropriate, in the management and strategic and operational choices that may jeopardise the future and development of the TAP as a public company of flag, a strategic company essential to the interests of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u90	If the State accepts, as Mr Minister said yesterday in an interview with a television channel, all the decisions that the new TAP Executive Board is taking, if all this is validated by the Government, as regards strategic planning of routes, the development of the company and the investments decided upon, if the Government in this revitatization again puts its hands under the privates, as it has recently done with the reprivatization of BANIF, abdicating, in this case, to assert the public interest, then Mr Minister, we must state that the Left Block does not support government government action. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Why does the government not make known the famous contours of the so-called strategic plan of the TAP, which many talk about but which remains in the secret of the business? Why is it that the shareholder State, even with the previous 39 % shareholding in capital, has remained silent all this time in relation to decisions of management strongly detrimental to the interests of the company, namely the elimination of unjustified routes, such as the case of routes of / and to port or code-share agreements between TAP and Blue, which only benefit Blue, because TAP made the decision to reduce routes to Brazil? Finally, we question the elephant in the porcelain store. Does the Government not think that 15 years of unquestioned but bad management of TAP by Eng. Fernando Pinto with so many white areas for explaining and always oriented towards the repetition of the same recipe, i.e. preparing the TAP to be private, with negative results that accumulate every year despite the different reasons that can be evoked, some more intelligible than others, would not justify a few words of comfort on the part of the Government, accompanied by a "we are sorry but cannot be" position and leading to a change in the management of the company?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u91	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what has been demonstrated is that the Government's announcement to all the main decisions of David Neeleman and Humberto Pedrosa make the great announcement that the TAP would again be controlled by the State a purely formal matter, without visible practical effects.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u93	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u94	We, in the Block, are not going to give up. We will continue to fight for the Assembly of the Republic and through it, all the public will continue to express their opposition to decisions that call into question the future of the TAP and the public service that it has been the guarantor for more than 70 years. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u95	On behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If this debate does not improve, and I am afraid it will not improve, it can be known as the big mistake of'management', and I would like to try to explain why. Mr. João Paulo Correia, of the Socialist Party, ends his speech with the expression « TAP returns to the hands of the State ». [[Protests of PS Members.]] Mr. Deputies, I have always defended privatization in the forms of the previous government. The honourable Member says now that the state is in charge. Mr Member, if the State sends and has 51 %, as Mr Prime Minister has said, then it must respond differently to the demands of the City Council of Porto and the issues of the Port. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] You cannot come to say that the state sends and that the TAP is public and when they have a claim they say: "Oh, the problem is private, because we don't get into management! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a'short leg' lie and deserves a better explanation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u97	But do you want me to order or don't you want me to order? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u98	To the left on the left of the Socialist Party, I will dedicate some of my prayers, because I understand your suffering. The press office of the Portuguese Communist Party says : « Legalization of the privatization of TAP does not serve the interests of the country». But, Mr Bruno Dias, say something there about the matter, because you, suddenly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u99	Didn't you hear? Oh, my God! Is he here now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u100	Of course, if you were concerned about the privatisation of TAP, you would have put that in the « management » agreement, but they did not put it, and, as they did not put it, perhaps now have fewer instruments to defend that position. The same is true of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u101	We have a lot to talk about your position regarding the privatisation of TAP!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u102	I will not mention here everything Mr Heitor Sousa said, because it is fresh, it was not long ago, but said that after all, the state pays, that the taxpayer pays and that the decisions are all in the hands of the private. The honourable Member has made an excellent analysis! So, what are you waiting for to show your usefulness and do more to change that scenario from your point of view? Finally, I realized that you don't like it, you don't agree, you don't want it, you don't want it, but you accept it, which says very well about the interests that you are defending, which are others other than those of the country, or at least of your coherence! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Minister, it is expected that the State will accept either in the strategic plan agreement or in the negotiation agreement. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] And if you accept the agreement of the strategic plan, you have to say much more to the questions I have asked you, in particular what is there, but you have not said. The agreement also states that the State cannot have more than 50 %. Question: but can you have less? If you have less, in a future restructuring, it means that perenniality, that you are talking about, and that Mr. Prime Minister so much appreciates, is still where? Stay where? That is why I say, Minister, to conclude, that this is indeed an enlightening debate. You had no idea other than the previous government about the need to privatize TAP, capitalize TAP, find a strategic partner for TAP, and we found that strategic partner. He was a strategic partner of the Lusophonia that placed Portugal on the route of Latin America and on the routes of Africa, as was important, i.e. protected the hub of Lisbon. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u103	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u104	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Minister, either of the questions asked to you at the outset by the Social Democratic Party or by those I have made—and I have tried to do them very clearly, and I know that we will have an opportunity to speak again on the subject, if you agree to appear in the Committee on Economic Affairs, because I will be there to repeat them—I leave this little appeal to you, because you still have time to turn this debate into something useful: what is the parasocial contract that exists? [[Show me!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u105	Answer any little thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u106	What are the agreements? What are the conditions? This is to see if we understand the goodness of this agreement. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u107	On behalf of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I appeal here that the Minister should hear, consider and reflect on the words we have heard recently. In other words, I appeal to the Government to listen to those who defend a firm State intervention as an shareholder to defend the public service and the interest of the people, with the links of Porto and Lisbon, the diaspora and everything else,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u109	The PCP should be happy with this business!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u110	... even of those who say this today and who, a few months ago, have assumed themselves as defenders of the total delivery of the company to the interests of the large economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u111	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u112	What is the position of the PCP?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u113	It is worth hearing this call from those who argue that the State assumes itself as an shareholder, to defend the public interest. Try it, Minister, to listen to those who talk like that! [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u114	The PCP has not yet said whether you are happy or sad with this business!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u115	But in fact there is one doubt and that doubt must be clarified. So, after all, what are we staying on? Oh, my God! So, ladies and gentlemen, who fill their mouths with the sacrosanct market, with the contribution of the private to the growth of TAP, with capitalization, do you now want the state as the shareholder to prevent the closure of routes? Oh, my God! So, you didn't know, and we warned you that it was going to happen, that, with privatization, it would be shut down broken? Oh, my God! There is all that was announced for the port, and yet not realized, more that has already been realized, with the closure of the links to Athens, Bamako, Turin, Bucharest, Manaus, Belgrade, S. Petersburg, Bogotá, Panama, Hanover, Talin! This is the result of the fabulous management by private interests in front of the airline, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congrats from PCP MP Antonio Filipe.]] [[PSD protests.]] That is why, as far as the famous privatization that the PSD was defending is concerned, we are in doubt! The PSD is afraid that we speak of these things, it is outraged and insurgent when we refer to what is happening today with the miraculous privatization that it defends and that it unlawfully and unconstitutionally imposes on the Portuguese people!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u116	Legally? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u117	We're where we were! We continue to defend the public management of the TAP, we do not go to the ziguezagues, as some, more disoriented, appear today to ziguezagear between the defense of public management and the sacrosanct private management. [[PSD protests.]] For the PCP, this solution does not correspond to the country's needs,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u118	... but it is true that by keeping the majority of capital in public hands they increase the public control possibilities of decisions taken by the TAP administration, in particular being the largest shareholder state in the company, so the CFP will not cease to exercise the strictest scrutiny in the way that such control is carried out. But it is no less true that the risks of TAP destruction come from exactly their private management and those who are in control of the company, in executive terms, to the extent that the TAP Group tends to be put at the service of a strategy that is foreign to it and that interests Gateway shareholders, who have other more strategic interests for them than the TAP. In fact, what is also important to register today and leave to the Government as a reference, in relation to the concerns of the present and the future, relates to the processes of expiry of collective bargaining and the need for the immediate end of these processes, as well as the end of the intention of subcontracting regular services in other companies, including Omni and White, such as those for the air bridge announced between Lisbon and Porto, the completion of the situation of the scandalous business of the purchase options of Airbus A350 and Embraer, which Azul had stopped and ended up being selected for TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u119	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u120	I will finish, Mr. President. The same applies to the areas of the TAP reduced and the question of the area of assistance on scale. We believe that, in this matter, once again, the affirmation of our proposal continues to be current, that the defense of TAP goes through the reversal to the public sphere and the effective public management of the flag airline. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u121	You now have the floor for the last request for further clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is interesting to see how the PSD and the CDS today speak so much in public interest, when, in this process of privatization of TAP, they simply ignored the public interest. Then it is also interesting to note Mr Hélder Amaral's concerns about why in the agreements on the left, not being TAP. Mr President, it is simple that there was only one agreement in the agreement. If there was no agreement on TAP, I didn't have to stay in the deal! Elementary, dear Mr. Hélder Amaral! Simpler it couldn't be! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Minister, I have a question to ask you. We have come to see a wave of news about the possible suspension of routes by TAP, especially from the city of Porto to several European capitals, and also about TAP's intention to suspend Lisbon / Porto links at night. It is a matter which has already been brought here several times today, but I would like you to tell us whether or not the government has the conditions to prevent these suspensions from happening. More: I think it would be very important for the Minister here today to clarify whether this apparent threat of suspension of flights from port is the result of the intervention of the current government in the TAP process or, on the contrary, it was the business of the PSD/CDS Government that allowed possible changes in routes, particularly on the routes of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u123	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u124	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u125	It is that, if it is, as we think, a result of the previous government's business, then the question wins other contours and has to be made differently. What does the current government think about doing to solve another problem left by the previous government, the PSD Government / CDS? Oh, my God! What does the current government intend to do for, as Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo says, to avoid emptying the airport of Porto, whose threat stems from the business of the former PSD / CDS Government? Oh, my God! The question must be put in these terms and that is how I put it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u126	At the end of this second round the Government has the floor of the Secretary of State for Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I was listening to the various speeches and Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo did not want to believe what he was listening to. In fact, if a few months ago the state was willing to stay out of the TAP, what does that mean? Oh, my God! I do the following exercise: if the State were outside the TAP, what would that mean in terms of route definition? Oh, my God! What would that mean in terms of emptying airports? Oh, my God! If the State had no intervention and the business was going wrong, what would it mean, ultimately, to keep the share and the liabilities and exercise the right to repurchase, as was planned in the initial business? Oh, my God! This is what I can't understand! It is very difficult to understand how the State would be outside, when, now, the PSD Parliamentary Group defends a position of resumption and redefinition of routes and other strategic projects that should belong to or ultimately belong to the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u128	It's state interventionism!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u129	It is also of interest to reinforce that the State is a majority shareholder and will therefore not abdicate its majority position. It will not abdicate, this is the message that is important to convey.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u130	Why? Doesn't it do any good? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u131	Therefore, the State does not abdicate its majority position, in particular in defining the strategic plan for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u132	The strategic plan is the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u133	The solution presented by the previous government was an irreversible solution in privatization. in this debate, in fact, we are not discussing a percentage in social participations, we are discussing a model, which needed to stop, of privatization of the TAP by 100 %. That's what needs to be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, the privatisation of TAP by 100 % was not inevitable. We have said, and we have again emphasized that this government has prevented this situation from becoming inevitable. We are talking about a company that is one of the top 10 in the country, which has so much importance for the Portuguese economy and for Portugal's affirmation in the world and in the Lusophonia and that the previous government understood that it had to privatize 100 %, no longer having any influence on its strategic decisions. Regardless of the hurry, the previous government was already in management or willed, the PSD and the CDS considered that the State had to quickly abdicate from having a word to say at the destination of this flag airline and signed a contract with private shareholders, in which, in addition to immediately selling 61 % of the TAP, they still gave these shareholders the option to be able to purchase the remaining at the end of only two years, leaving the State to have any role in the company. And, in this desperate hurry to create a finished fact, with the signing of the contract, they also created another legal fact that objectively impairs the national interest: if the business went well, the private would have the profits and, if the business went wrong, the State would be obliged to buy the TAP, assuming the liability created, however, exclusively by the private. Those who in the PSD and CDS now question the risks and responsibilities that the State assumes with the agreement that the current government has signed are the same ones that have allowed the State to be responsible not only for existing liabilities but also for possible damage to the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u134	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u135	In fact, TAP is too important for the country to keep the State from its strategic decisions. That is why the government has negotiated with the private consortium the recomposition of the capital. He did so successfully, he achieved the goals he had set and that others considered unrealistic. The memorandum of understanding that this Government has signed with private shareholders allows the company to capitalize and respects the legitimate interests of private investors — I repeat, respects legitimate interests — and does so with the pure interest of preserving the State a central role in defining the company's strategic options. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, what the government wants is a strong and prosperous TAP to contribute to the development of the country and to affirm Portugal in the world. The agreement we have reached is very important, it is an important contribution to achieving it and demonstrates the commitment of the State and Government to a key enterprise for the Portuguese economy and the entire Lusophone economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Fernando Virgílio Macedo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u136	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now closing this urgent debate. Mr Pedro Nuno Santos spoke for an intervention on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This was not a debate about this government's decision to privatize 50 % of the TAP, this was a debate about the decision of a government to stop the total privatisation of the TAP. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u138	That was the debate we had here today. [[P.S. and P.P.P. Mr António Filipe.]] This was the destination that you had kept for the Portuguese Air Transporter ( TAP ) company, which was the destination that they left to the TAP, the destination, which was worked on on time by this government. [[PSD protests.]] It is with great disembarkation that today we all witness a great concern of the PSD, by the voice of Mr. Virgílio Macedo, with the closure of routes,... [[The government's laughs.]] ... with the devaluation of the North, with the devaluation of the Francisco Sá Carneiro Airport by TAP. Because this closure of the routes was announced to the country even before this negotiation was concluded! [[PSD Member Protest Fernando Virgílio Macedo.]] It was the result of your government's decision! [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u139	It's a big disembarkation! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD is a party that respects the market economy because, when privatized, it privatizes because it understands that decisions should be made freely by those who buy the company. And, therefore, of two : either Mr Virgílio Macedo joined the public control of TAP, or here today perhaps the most relevant, most important criticism to the decision of the previous Government : privatize the TAP, devalue the TAP! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u140	And thus, yes, devalue the North, devalue your land, your city! [[P.S.'s applause.]] That decision which was taken by this government resulted in a negotiation process. In two months, a negotiation process was initiated which ends in agreement and allows the Portuguese State to regain strategic control over the TAP, from which you had dispensed. The Portuguese state, today, has strategic control of an important company, is today the majority partner of TAP! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the fact that he is the majority partner of the TAP will allow the Portuguese State what Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo here, that is, in the strategic issues for the development of the country, also for the development of the North region, the State may have a word to say. And that is why this was a debate not on the decision to privatize 50 % of the TAP but on the decision of this government to block the total privatisation of the TAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u141	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, the requesting party has the floor Mr Emídio Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u142	Is he going to "put the rape in the bag" and say: "is there no longer anyone who spoke?" Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to regret that the Minister with the protection of this subject has been stolen from answering very precise and concrete questions during the debate. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u144	...that different benches here have raised and that, in the end, if you had hidden behind Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, which has no longer come here to do more than an attempt to end politics, with politicists, as is usual. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in good time the PSD has called for this debate, because the behaviour of the PS and the government in all this process has been a brutal irresponsibility! [[PS protests.]] And during this debate it was quite clear how the Socialist Party sought to escape the central issue, what we are discussing today, bringing distraction maneuvers, such as airport namings or, then, as other things that nothing has to do with this debate. This is because what we are discussing today, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is this two-and-a-half-page agreement, which is what is known to all of us, and which is supposed to be the agreement that the government has made with whom it has won the privatisation of TAP. It's good that the radical left parties, with the PS included,... [[Rice from PS and PCP Members.]] ... take advantage of this moment to discuss what was the privatisation of TAP. They do so because the data are all available, because the process is transparent, because the previous government put everything on the table, in view of everyone. [[Ah!...]] [[Protests from PS and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u145	What do we have right now? We have two and a half pages and supposedly a parasocial agreement. [[Don't look at me!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u146	Minister, if you have an agreement, leave it here now! If you don't have it, then you and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I never thought that irresponsibility was so much, to the point of closing a business of these without defining essential preconditions for the development of this company. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, where is the Socialist Party of António Guterres, who defended the privatization of TAP? Oh, my God! Where is the Socialist Party of José Socrates, who placed the privatisation of TAP in PEC 1, PEC 2, PEC 3 and PEC 4, and who, however! , it went further and placed the privatisation of TAP in the Memorandum of Understanding which it negotiated with the troika and which it signed in May 2011? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] Where is this PS? Many of your leaders are the same. In addition, many of them were part of these governments, particularly those of José Socrates, which led Portugal to the pre-bankrota, which signed the Memorandum of Understanding and at that time defended the privatization of TAP. [[Well remembered!]] [[The CDS-PP's laughs.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u147	What's changed, then? In good rigour, until today, no leader of the Socialist Party can explain what has changed, even if one perceives the position of the Socialist Party! Otherwise we see: the radical left affirmed, and states, that the privatisation of the TAP made by the previous government was illegal and that it had to be reversed. at the sound of this sound bit, Dr. António Costa was soon very proud to proclaim that he would promote the reversal of all this. Until I said in Brussels on 18 December, as already mentioned here, that, with the agreement, the State will resume 51 % of the capital of TAP if it is not with the agreement, it will be without the agreement. To this state of soul, I have no doubt, all the radical left reacted with joy and applause, in an attempt to maintain its interests: the Communist Party would maintain its trade union interests in the company; the Left Block because it did; and the Socialist Party because it finally realized that it had changed. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] And what really changed was a whim of Dr. António Costa. This is the great change of the Socialist Party! [[PSD laughter.]] All this negotiation and this agreement now signed with the privates who bought the TAP are no more than failed acts to satisfy a capricho of the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u149	And once again, the Prime Minister and his government are not fulfilling the promise. Once again, the given word was not honored! This is because, contrary to what the Communist Party and the Left Block wanted, privatization has not been cancelled, nor reverted, nor even considered in this debate today, here, illegal by the Government or the Socialist Party. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u150	And what do we check? That, in fact, in spite of the contagonism, Mr. Members of the Left Block and PCP are available to swallow frogs, elephants and even planes... [[Laughing.]] ...to maintain such coherence that may somehow not condition this business. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests of BE Members.]] But then what changed? What did you get? It's all still the same! The company is private! The strategic plan, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, on which Mr Minister has so often been questioned here, it is the same as in December, that of the privatization of the previous government! You haven't changed a line! That's why everything's still the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u151	So what are they complaining about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u152	There's a difference: the state is injecting money back into the TAP! The state is putting money back on the taxpayers at TAP! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That's the big difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u153	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u154	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u155	And contrary to what was said, and what was said, you are again side by side with the private in what future commitments will be, not knowing what it will cost the Portuguese at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u156	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u157	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall finish as I began: in good time, the PSD called for this debate. The State bought and purchased 50 % of the capital of the TAP, little to 51 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u158	The lie has a short leg!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u159	But it's 50%, it's a draw! But above all, ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than EUR 30 million head, now,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u160	Mr President, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u161	... it is a lot, but even a lot of money from the Portuguese taxpayers to satisfy a whim of António Costa! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u162	Mrs. Members, I declare the urgency debate required by the PSD. We move on to the second item on our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment of draft resolutions 87/ XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Launch of a cultural intervention programme in Brazil following the fire at the Museum of the Portuguese Language of São Paulo ( PSD ) and 148 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government deepen institutional and operational cooperation between the Trucks — Institute for Cooperation and Language and the entities responsible for the implementation and maintenance of the Portuguese Language Museum with a view to restoring the Museum and restoring the technological acquis ( CDS-PP ). To present the PSD's legislative initiative, Mr José Cesario has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fire that has recently completely destroyed the Museum of the Portuguese Language of São Paulo has united all the benches of this House, in solidarity that we then all manifest to the Brazilian authorities, starting with the government of the State of São Paulo, and the Roberto Marinho Foundation, responsible for the enterprise. However, it is clear that the importance and meaning of this Museum compel us not to be alone in words, no matter what they are. I said - at the time and we reaffirm - it today that Portugal has a beautiful opportunity here to engage directly in the effort of valuing Portuguese culture that the reconstruction of that museum means, giving body to a set of initiatives, duly articulated with the Brazilian authorities, which contribute to our greatest presence in Brazil and in the world. We therefore understand that this will be the time to accelerate the series of challenges that have involved government and diplomatic officials from both countries in recent years in order to set up some flagship projects on both sides. Of course, I refer to so many times discussed the Portuguese School of São Paulo, a demanding and excellent educational project that can significantly extend the set of Portuguese schools in luxophone countries, after the very recent creation of the congeners of Cape Verde and São Tomé. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u164	It's been a long time since we got beat up for this kind of school. We have no doubt that the affirmation of our language in the world begins exactly by the development of daring projects and that they become international references. in the same line, we also think that the governments of the two countries and the states of São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro now have the ideal opportunity to realize some of the possibilities already identified for the creation of Portuguese and Brazilian cultural centers on both sides of the Atlantic. We are sure that we will be able to translate into practice the political priority regarding our Atlantic relationship with Brazil and the other CPLP countries, taken over by all previous governments and recently reaffirmed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Of course, this effort would be successful if we managed to involve in this cultural affirmation program some of the most significant Portuguese root entities that exist in Brazil. This is the case of the Royal Portuguese Office of Reading of Rio de Janeiro, of the Casa de Portugal de São Paulo, of the Portuguese Offices of Reading of Bay and Pernambuco, of the Literary Grémio de Belém do Pará and also of several other entities in several Brazilian cities. in reality, the definition of a cultural program of this type would only recover and manage articulate several projects and initiatives that have been developed in recent years, rationalizing human and financial resources with diverse origins. For all this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, here we bring this draft resolution, thereby translating into practice our commitment to actively collaborate with the Government and other sovereign bodies to develop an external policy with a truly national logic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u165	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u166	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP today presents in this Chamber, together with the PSD Parliamentary Group, a draft resolution that places Portuguese cooperation and language at the heart of the political debate, in particular by recommending to the Government the deepening of institutional and operational cooperation between the Camões — Institute of Cooperation and Language and the entities responsible for the implementation and maintenance of the Portuguese Language Museum with a view to restoring the Museum and restoring its technological acquis. As Mr Cesario has said here, in fact, we have witnessed, with this fire, an endless and very regrettable loss of heritage, in addition to the loss of a human being, which is absolutely insurmountable. Let me begin by saying that the Portuguese language, spoken by peoples of various countries and continents, is more than 250 million speakers, has always been and will be, for the CDS-PP, an essential structural dimension of our foreign policy. Our language is a rich and unequal means of building and strengthening our identity, valuing our history, disseminating our culture and expanding our influence in the globalized world. In parallel with this understanding, and we cannot ignore it, it adds that the Portuguese language is today an inescapable economic means of strengthening our human and material resources. These initiatives naturally arise from the recognition of the importance of the language as an irreplaceable heritage and following the tragic fire that broke out at the Station of Light, in São Paulo, where the famous Portuguese Language Museum was installed, news to which we witnessed with particular regret and dismay. In fact, the Portuguese Language Museum was no longer a museum, it was not just a museum in São Paulo, it was a museum of all Portuguese speakers in the world. As it is known, the virtuous formula of this museum resides in its deep and creative interaction with the various audiences through unforgettable permanent and temporary exhibitions, as well as extraordinary literary experiences. in this sense, much of the heritage value was not, fortunately, affected, to the extent that it may be reproduced again. But it is still a very important loss for Portuguese, either for Brazilians or for Portuguese. We know that we live in difficult times, but it is in difficult times that choices have to be made. We must therefore work together and take advantage of the difficulties to dare to see beyond immediate. The time has come for Portugal, within the framework of cooperation, particularly through the Institute of Cooperation and Language, to contribute to the development of a programme agreed with Brazilian entities, including the Roberto Marinho Foundation and those responsible for the Portuguese Language Museum, in order to rebuild this museum and support its reconstruction and restoration of the acquis, giving life, aesthetics and dynamism to the Portuguese language. Similarly, we follow in a very committed way the statements already made by Mr. Minister of Culture, Dr. João Soares, who, at the time of the outbreak of the tragic fire, deplored the deadly victim and said that the Portuguese Government is absolutely available to help in the recovery of the Portuguese Language Museum. In statements of the time, the Minister for Culture said it was a tragic, absolutely regrettable event in what was surely the most important Portuguese-language museum in the world, with a remarkable dynamic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u167	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u168	I shall conclude, Mr President. As the language is a common denominator to our peoples, we understand that there is a very fertile ground to intensify a constructive relationship in a space that is expressed in a common way, but also so that cooperation can be synonymous with the benefit of the entire Lusophone community. Mr President, I would like to say that the year in which we are going to sign 20. the anniversary of CPLP, this will be a good occasion to be able to redefine what will be a new strategic vision for CPLP. We hope that this tragic event will serve as an appeal to our conscience and that it will help us to refocus the Portuguese language within the CPLP. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u169	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u170	Mr President, I welcome all the Members present and also the promoters of this draft resolution, stressing the importance of the Portuguese language in the context of the Lusophony and not only in the context of the world. contrary to what the PSD points out in the text of its draft resolution, the recent fire in the Portuguese Language Museum in São Paulo, Brazil, did not itself emphasize the importance of our cultural relationship with Brazil, as a country of lusophonia. This importance exists daily in our bilateral relations with Brazil, within the framework of CPLP, on our day-to-day, on the day-to-day of thousands of Portuguese and Brazilians who live there, emigrants or immigrants, or simply sharing a common language, leisure or business space. The responsibilities for maintaining this extraordinary common heritage, five centuries old, lie with the two countries and both, say the passage, have been, as far as their possibilities are concerned, at the height of this huge challenge, although, as we know, the enormous difficulties that this challenge entails. The draft resolution of the CDS certainly meets the concerns of the Government and, as Mrs Teresa Caeiro said, the Minister of Culture was quick and unequivocal with the message she sent immediately, transmitting the intention of the Government not only to be supportive of technical means, but also with the institutional solidarity of the Portuguese Government towards this tragedy that was felt with this fire. however, the PSD recommendations in its draft resolution are poorly perceived, insofar as they impose processes in some unprepared way, namely the creation of the Portuguese school in São Paulo, which was planned by the previous government, which is, it is true, being evaluated and subject to negotiations between the Portuguese and Brazilian authorities and that, say, it is passing, has been the subject of resistance up to the state of São Paulo. This is because the costs associated with it are indeed important and it is necessary to understand where their financial sustainability comes from. It is not enough to celebrate efemerids, announcing measures, it is necessary to know how to implement them. Also, as regards the Portuguese cultural centres that are mentioned in your draft resolution, I remember that this is a measure of the responsibility of the Camões Institute and, as you know, this Institute mentions that cultural centers only exist in capitals, and we already have a capital, Brasília, with a cultural center of great importance. It is not enough for a Secretary of State of Culture to invent commitments, it is necessary to realize that they exist, already administratively stipulated and stipulated in the public administration. Therefore, the priority is to provide the Cultural Center of Brasilia with the appropriate resources that enable it to function as a pole of cultural action in Brazil. On the other hand, the choice of permanent structures may not always constitute a unique, ideal mechanism for promoting culture and language, and this same goal can be achieved by different models. Since now, the Government has ensured an intense partnership between the various institutions that already exist on the ground and the consular network in Brazil and the Cultural Center in Brasília, supported by the Portuguese institutions and will be given an intense renewal of the bibliographic, audiovisual and exhibition collections of libraries, with a great interaction with the Virtual Camões Cultural Center. As Mrs Teresa Caeiro said very well on 20th. the anniversary of the CPLP will be an excellent opportunity to strengthen the importance of the Portuguese language. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u171	Mr Jorge Campos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We share concerns about the Portuguese Language Museum in São Paulo, partially destroyed by a fire last December 21st. It is a unique and undisputed equipment of cultural relevance. In a virtual museum, explore the digital possibilities in order to provide an interactive journey around the spread of Portuguese in Brazil in contact with local peoples. This is a very important particularity. It is therefore a remarkable example of understanding Portuguese not as an ontological source but as part of a complex cultural exchange. It is in this perspective that we face these problems. With regard to Mr José Cesario's proposal from the PSD, it seems to me to go a bit beyond the reasonable starting point of the fire of the Museum of the Portuguese Language of São Paulo for a very vast and very wide programme of achievements in Brazil, all the more so, then through the Lusophonia and the CPLP. I do not want to enter this debate now, but Lusophonia and CPLP is something we will have to reflect on. This is a strategic issue for the Portuguese people and, if it is true that we are unyielding defenders of our language, I believe that no one will question it, the truth is that some of these concepts require updating. When it wasn't, Mr. José Cesario, it would be enough to say that there are already no Portuguese speakers in the CPLP. I would say that there is one country in which only 4% of the population speaks Portuguese and another where they are only 40%, that is the case of East Timor and Mozambique. We must therefore, in fact, reflect on these issues and, of course, we must make an increased effort to disseminate and disseminate the Portuguese language. We fully agree on that. Where we no longer agree is when the honourable Member says that he intends to make our presence in Brazil even more evident. I understand, but this reminds me of other things, Mr President, I am sorry to say to you, particularly the times of Luso-tropicalism. It is not the problem of having a very ambitious programme with these characteristics that can certainly favour what we want to value. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD defend, in particular, the rapid creation of the Portuguese school in São Paulo, the cultural promotion programme in Brazil, finally, there are very varied measures listed, and it is said that there have been very varied formal and informal meetings between those responsible for the two countries, of which there have been...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u173	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u174	I will now finish, Mr President. I said, it is said that there were very varied formal and informal meetings between those responsible for the two countries, of which important clues that need to be continued. If you could give us an explanation on this matter, it would be interesting to know where we are and whether the proposals you make are consistent with the demands made, even because you have been in power for four years and will therefore have something to say. Finally, we reiterate that it is our understanding that...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u175	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u176	I will finish, Mr. President. The Portuguese State has an obligation to manage a cultural diplomacy for dialogue between free peoples, for literary artistic sharing and the Portuguese language in a logic of reciprocity and balance. This is our point of view. We reiterate the commitment of concrete support to the Brazilian people and the city of São Paulo in the face of the devastation of the Portuguese Language Museum, symbol of interculturality and cultural sharing among the peoples. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u177	Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Inaugurated in 2006, the Museum of Portuguese Language quickly consolidated as one of the most visited museums in Brazil and South America and therefore became a reference in the promotion and defense of Portuguese. On December 21, 2015, a fire of great proportions reached the building where the museum was located in the historic Station of Light, in the heart of São Paulo. The greatest loss of this sad day was undoubtedly the death of Ronaldo Pereira da Cruz, official of the museum who performed firefighting duties. As for the acquis, the State Secretary of Culture of the State of São Paulo reported that, in the case of a museum based primarily on digital content, its recovery is possible with the use of existing backups. As for the architectural heritage, the damage in the neo-renascentist-style building, which became known as the visiting room of São Paulo, are very considerable and affected the iconic Tower of the Clock. It is still curious that São Paulo has a meeting place with the language, culture and Portuguese history and that something similar has never been considered in Portugal. This issue must be examined in the light of an unmistakable fact: the absence of the definition of a true language policy, which is underpinned by concrete, coherent and articulated measures within and outside the country. in the initiatives presented today by PSD and CDS it is interesting to see that the pretext of the intervention to support the reconstruction of the Portuguese Language Museum, this intention that we do not dispute, it is verified that they now intend to implement other measures, which they could even have applied by their own motor vehicle through the Government that they integrated and which was defeated in the elections of 4 October. Moreover, the absence of consistent language, teaching, culture and identity policies for Portuguese people, especially for those who reside outside the country, had serious consequences. in fact, here is a special greeting to the commitment of the Portuguese communities, their collectivities and associations and schools in the work of teaching, learning and the dissemination of our culture and our language through this outside world. We must also not forget the important action taken by migrants against the attempt of the majority PSD/CDS to close consulates and destroy their public character, with the reduction of financial, technical and human resources and their delivery to private entities. It was indeed a missed opportunity for PSD and CDS to have listened to the CFP proposals, for example the need for strategic investment in language policy and a serious culture policy. The CFP considers that the way ahead must be through the promotion, expansion and qualification of Portuguese language and culture teaching, close cooperation with other Portuguese countries and people of official language, the guarantee of the constitutional right of Portuguese children and young people in the diaspora, the free learning of Portuguese as an identity language, the reorganization and adequacy of the consular network, modernising it, qualifying it and adapting it to the needs of Portuguese to reside abroad and to the new realities of migration movements. And finally, by defining a true policy of language. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u179	Mr Pascoa has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese communities in Brazil have always had a great deal of concern about betting on cultural associations and related to language promotion. And, within this philosophy, they have created over 200 associations that are dedicated to promoting Portuguese culture and language over the years. It is also time for us to move forward in this direction. In addition to the great institutions we have, it is time to create, turning to reality, the Portuguese school of São Paulo and also the Portuguese cultural centers, both of São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, since in Brazil, despite the political capital being Brasília, the economic and cultural capitals are Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. I also remember Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas that in Vigo we have a Portuguese cultural centre and, as I know, Vigo is not currently the capital of Spain. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u181	Therefore, we do not see any incompatibility in which these two institutions are betted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u182	Thank you for finishing, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u183	All right, I'll be done, Mr President. I want to say that in the previous government, as mentioned here, political and diplomatic institutions were involved in several meetings in order to enable the three works, since this involves both the Portuguese Government and the State of São Paulo, and the Brazilian Government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u184	Mrs. Members, the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 87 and 148 / XIII ( 1. a ), we move to the third point of our order of business, which consists of the general assessment of draft law No 129 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 5 / 2011 of 2 March approving the Law of Portuguese Honorary Orders, incorporating the Order of Trucks under national orders ( PS ). To present this initiative, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, because of a coincidence, I would not say happy, because the reason for the previous discussion will not reflect it, we have the opportunity to discuss the centrality of the Portuguese language as a factor in valuing the culture of the peoples who use the Portuguese language. We could see this legislative initiative—which basically recovers a bill already approved in the 1980s by Law No. 10/85, which added to Portuguese honorific orders a national order, the Order of Camões —, specifically aimed at valuing Portuguese culture services and the recognition of the language as a factor of approximation and cement between Portuguese communities and all the peoples who express themselves in Portuguese, as an additional factor in making this valuation and, while one of the people who uses the language— it is true that it is our language, but not just our language— we also have the possibility of making it reflect at the highest level, through those who are the instruments of honoring national and foreign citizens who stand out in use, promoting and launching the Portuguese language around the world. In fact, a few years ago only two years ago, we celebrated the 800 years of the Portuguese language and it was precisely in this context that it seemed to us that it would be the right time to recover the Order of Camões, integrating it between the national orders, and creating this possibility of autonomous distinction, either with regard to the Portuguese language or with regard to the connection with the Portuguese communities abroad. In fact, we could say that this is already possible through either the Military Order of Santiago da Espada, or the Order of the Child Dom Henrique, orders that also pursue similar purposes as regards literary merit or the expansion of Portuguese culture. But with this initiative we intend to highlight and give a centrality proper to the language and its valorization, because, here, what is being sought is this distinctive criterion of approximation — I say again — of all the peoples who express themselves in Portuguese and of all the Portuguese communities living abroad, who use it in daily family communication, but also as a projection factor of our culture and language, which is of all these speakers who today, on a global scale, have an unquestionable dimension and should therefore not fail to reflect on our honorary orders. This is not a point of arrival, this legislative initiative that we are presenting. It is a starting point for a debate, which must of course mobilise Parliament, which must also take special attention in conjunction with the Presidency of the Republic, because we are talking about a fundamental area of Mr President's intervention. We therefore, of course, express complete availability for this dialogue to be conducted in an open, structured manner, so that there is the consensus that has always been possible to gather around our national orders. We are perhaps of the few peoples in the world who have the happiness of celebrating their national day, recalling the memory of a poet. And not many people can do it. It is said that in Portuguese poetry and soul goes a bit of a poet in all of them and, therefore, we remember Luís Vaz de Camões also through a national order. Let us remember that the Day of Portugal is the Day of Portugal, of Camões and of the Portuguese Communities. In fact, it has a consistency in valuing the language, as cement, as an aggregate element, and therefore we hope that in this role that honorary orders should play, which is also a role of comprehensive and democratic recognition of the services provided to the language and the relationship between the peoples that express themselves, there is, by paraphrasing the poet: « (...) strange boldness! Strange! / That, by giving short death to the human body, /..., we can «... have its long life memory! » to all those who stand out in the projection of the Portuguese language from the outside world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u186	Mr António Filipe has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the statement made by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves by introducing this bill, I would say that there is little more to say than in fact to express our agreement with the integration of the Truck Order into the legal framework of the Portuguese honorary orders. Indeed, it seems reasonable to me that the considerations on the basis of the existence of this Order of Trucks may have cabbage, because it has its own specificity. The existence of this honorary order is reasonable and therefore makes every sense that, in the legal diploma that fits all the Portuguese honorary orders, the Order of Camões has its specific place, with the exact determination of the criteria which must preside over the allocation of this distinction by the Portuguese State. It seems to us that this is an important initiative in the sense of valuing Portuguese language and culture in the world, and here I would like to express on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group our agreement with the initiative proposed here today by the Socialist Party. [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u188	Mr Nuno Magalhães, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, there is not much more to say than to reaffirm our generic agreement with this proposal, which we have also discussed, an initiative which has gathered unanimity in a discussion held 30 years ago in the Assembly of the Republic. And that is why we work and we will work, so that we can continue in this unanimity, at the time very well stressed by someone who I admire, then Mr Narana Coissoró, who said that the initiative was used to draw attention to the fact that Portugal is a country scattered around the world, a "foreign nation in the land", quoting Professor Adriano Moreira, and that all those who contribute to promotion and dignity in any part of the world of Portuguese must be recognized by our country. Therefore, continuing to quote Prof. Adriano Moreira, « Everyone is composed of change», the importance of the language remains. So let the times change, but let this will be maintained, the desire to recognize those who dignify and promote the Portuguese language, the desire to strengthen the ties between the Portuguese in any part of the world. That is why it seems to us that this initiative is important, but, as has been said, it is relevant, and we also stress the openness expressed by the proposing party, by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, that Camões in Canto IV of Les Lusíadas, about fame and glory, that honours should be deserved and not inherited and should be done with effort and merit. That is why we need to examine a number of issues, for which we note the openness expressed by the proposing party, in particular the need for this issue of orders to be heard in advance by the Council of Orders and the President of the Republic to be able to have an essential intervention in this same consensus. I think that, if this is the case, and I am sure that it will be, we will be able to achieve the objective which Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves of challenge, and well, he has launched: on 10 June, since we have the privilege of celebrating our nationality on that day, we can honor our greatest, the greatest, the poet, and this order of power not only be in force as to be assigned. for our part, we will be here to maintain the consensus started 30 years ago and to take this path, wishing it to bear good fruit. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u190	Mr Marques Guedes, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the Social Democratic Party obviously there is no hesitation in being available to examine this proposal, since it enshrines an appreciation of what is one of the most valuable assets of Portuguese culture and of Portuguese civilized being, which is the Portuguese language. however, as has already been mentioned and, moreover, I have had the opportunity to speak to the authors of this Socialist Party proposal, there is work to be done, firstly, a joint work with the Presidency of the Republic. in accordance with our Constitution, the President of the Republic is the master of the Portuguese honorary orders. In the past, legislation on honorary orders has always been worked and articulated, as constitutionally it must be with the Presidency of the Republic. at this moment, we have a President of the elected Republic who has not yet taken possession and therefore the new chancellors of the orders, under the Law of Honorary Orders, we do not yet know who they will be. So, here is a work ahead, a work to be resumed, with regard to what was done in 1986 and 2011, when, for the first time and for the second time, changes were introduced in the law on honorary orders. There is full availability on the part of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, however, pointing out that, in the matter of joint relations between the organs of sovereignty, it should be required - and it is a suggestion I make to the proposers - that this proposal be lowered to the committee, without a vote, so that the joint work with the Presidency of the Republic should be done before the Assembly of the Republic begins to take voting positions on this matter. I think that's the right attitude, that's how it was in 2011, when the last amendment of the law on honorary orders. for my part, I would strongly recommend that we follow the same procedure in 2016, with a new Presidency of the Republic, with a new body of chancellors of honorary orders. And I think that all of this is compatible with the deadlines for proposals themselves to be presented with this legislative initiative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u192	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill, presented here by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, aims to integrate the Truck Order into the existing regime of national orders. I think this project, from a formal point of view, and even part of its subjective interpretation, is absolutely consensual among all of us and will obviously deserve the approval of the Left Block. Not wanting to break this consensus, I must say that I disagree with this version of the exaltation of the Pilgrim Country on other lands as a way of valuing Portuguese culture and Portuguese language. I think it is possible — and in this regard, we have just had a debate on the question of the Portuguese Language Museum — to value the Portuguese language, the services provided to Portuguese language and culture, without always having to look for such old references that I think they are no longer necessary for the creation and consolidation of a national identity, and this identity is as necessary today as it was in the past. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u194	So I just want to say that, yes, we accept that it is necessary to value the Order of Trucks, it is necessary to recognize the work of those who provide a service to the culture, of those who provide a service to the language, but I also want to make clear that we have different views on how this appreciation and interpretation can be done. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u195	For a second speech, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very telegraphically, I wanted to leave three brief notes. The first is that, of course, the Socialist Party's availability to the committee, without a vote, is total of this diploma. In fact, what we want is an extended consensus, so if that is the method to be adopted, there is no opposition on our part. I would also like to note, reassuring the idea of the possible readings we find here, that the pluralism of the language also means we find here several different readings and, perhaps, agree in the spirit, even though all the benches look differently to the Order of Camões. for our part, we look at these references as current references of a language that is of peoples that are equal and free and equal in this use of the Portuguese language and not with a revitalizal spirit, but with a spirit of projection for the future of what today unites us, the peoples that we use the Portuguese language, and also the various Portuguese communities that, from outside the world, use the Portuguese language as well as their language and, therefore, on an equal footing with others. I would end by recalling the Poet again, using the quote which Mr Nuno Magalhães had recently used from Canto IV, saying: Let us therefore put the effort so that it may then be possible to recognize the merit of the third parties who deserve it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[At the moment, President Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u197	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us move on to the next item on the agenda, which is from the joint assessment of draft resolutions 71/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of the transitional period provided for in the status of teaching career of university and technical higher education, ensuring conditions for the completion of doctoral studies and correcting injustices ( BE ), 146 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes the creation of a new transitional regime for the completion of the degree of doctor and effective hiring with public links of public higher education teachers ( CFP ) and 150 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to ensure fairness in the application of transitional schemes for public higher education education ( PS ) and petition No 541 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the National Federation of Teachers ( FENPROF ), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures relating to the right to employment stability of teachers and researchers in higher education. To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2010 a set of laws was approved which allowed teachers of public higher education to have the conditions to complete their doctorates and to be linked to their institutions. This guarantees their appreciation, the stabilization of teaching staff and the maintenance of their careers. The fact is that the State has failed to fulfil its obligations and today many teachers do not benefit from the exemption of propines for the completion of this doctorate, having to spend large amounts to continue their training, entailing a particularly difficult financial effort. And we must not forget that austerity policies also affected these teachers and their families. Besides not having availed themselves of this exemption from propines, these teachers saw their working hours, in many cases, increased, with more curricular units, more teaching hours and more students, rather than their students, that is, the reduction of teaching service to have time to complete their doctorate. So today we have two specific problems linked to these teachers and to the teaching career: firstly, all those teachers who have completed their doctorate have not been linked to their teaching establishments; and secondly, there are still a large number of higher education teachers who, for various reasons, have not been able to complete their doctorate studies and today, at the end of this transitional period, who will soon see their life very difficult because of these problems. That is why we are bringing here this draft resolution of the Block of Left, which aims at three essential points: firstly, to extend the transitional arrangements of higher education teachers up to three years, ensuring the exemption of propines and the time-free service for obtaining the degree of doctor ; secondly, to ensure the effective hiring of teachers who have delivered their doctorates and have fulfilled their teaching time; and thirdly, to comply with the principles and rules arising out of Directive 1999 / 70 / EC of 28 June 1999 on end-term employment contracts, which determines strict limits for the renewal of contracts or labour relations, limits after which they should be considered successive and as concluded without end, which has not been fulfilled until today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u199	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I would like to greet FenPROF and all the petitioners who have subscribed to the petition that motivates this debate, as well as the parties who have presented initiatives to answer the question which is put on the table. It was the struggle of the teachers that made a transitional regime exist—in fact, this transitional regime, we all remember, was achieved against the will of the then Government of the Socialist Party, which, at the time, had published the Statutes of the University Teacher Careers and of the Polytechnic Higher Education—and it was the struggle that succeeded in improving this transitional regime. And it was also the work of some parliamentary groups here, in Parliament, so that there was a transitional regime that would create the minimum conditions so that a group of teachers could enter the teaching career in conditions of minimal justice. However, with the change of government, PSD and CDS — which, curiously, had made some of the amendments that had been incorporated into the transitional regime feasible — they have made their implementation impossible when they were government, by means of the usual under-financing in institutions and limitations to their autonomy and, if so, by effectively preventing the time-limits for obtaining the degree of doctor needed for career entry, and by preventing in practice the exemption from the payment of propane in the doctoral programmes of the teachers concerned so that they could get that degree. Finally, in practice, preventing the regime from occurring and consolidating. What we are dealing with today is the need to solve this problem for reasons of justice and also for reasons of need of the system, because the system needs these teachers. contrary to what many people say, most of these teachers have already been subjected to a contest, which is in practice a public contest, of public selection, before a jury. There are therefore a number of issues to be resolved here: on the one hand, we need to create a time limit for those who have not been able to use the dispensation time in the service and who have not had the pay permit to still enjoy these rights; on the other hand, it is also important to create mechanisms so that those who already meet the legal requirements can already enter the career, because they have been blocked this access to the career; and, finally, it is necessary to create mechanisms so that those who are still in doctoral programs are free of the benefit. And then, of course, it is necessary to review the concept of transitional needs itself and end this misuse by making everyone in the institutions fill and respond to the permanent needs of the institutions. The CFP has always been very clear since the first discussion on the Status of the Graduate Course of Polytechnic Higher Education, and its basic position is that all teachers who met the requirements, including obtaining the doctorate, should automatically enter the career in a final appointment regime. Finally, this was not possible and therefore what we continue to defend in this context is that, at least, the conditions of justice are ensured to respond not only to the injustices imposed on these workers but also to the needs of the system, because we cannot simply accept that, at one time or another, these teachers will disappear and much less we can accept that these teachers will continue to be hired in the run-up period, in degradation, because, from the moment they cannot renew their contracts, the situation will be even worse and the final hiring will be even worse than what is already happening today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u201	To present the PS draft resolution, Mr. João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today, in the Assembly of the Republic, we discuss three draft resolutions that signal a clear concern about a matter that should have been resolved for a long time. As a general rule, the transition of public higher education teachers to an indefinite contract condition depends on the conclusion of a doctorate. And since 2009 the doctorate has also become the reference qualification for the career of polytechnic higher education teachers. The approval of Law No. 7 / 2010 and Law No. 8 / 2010 sought, through a transitional regime, to enable all teachers of public higher education to have real conditions to complete their doctorates, linking their institutions. It was then established a period which ended in August 2015. In this particular case, it happens that it did not meet the commitments and obligations to ensure the qualification of teachers. It failed in two absolutely decisive aspects: in the dispensation of teaching service, essential for carrying out research work and in the exemption of propina by enrollment in the doctoral course whenever it constituted a condition of access to career progression. But it has also failed in another equally decisive dimension: in the face of interpretative discrepancies and numerous differences of application in different institutions, no uniformizing guidelines have been presented, thus exacerbating a situation of manifest injustice. Ensuring fairness in the application of the transitional regime is essential for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. in this sense, we recommend that the Government, together with the institutions, take the necessary measures — all necessary measures — to correct situations of inadequate application of transitional provisions, either of the Statute of the University Teacher Career, or of the Statute of the Polytechnic Higher Education Career. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the other hand, it is important to stress the importance of labour stability for all teachers. We are, of course, talking about a right of all workers — the right to access stable employment, the right to access non- precarious employment — as indeed determines the Community directive which obliges the Member States of the European Union to limit the use of end-of-term employment. As in other professional areas, submission to precarious contracts, as if it were a mere temporary need, is also a reality for many teachers of higher education in our country. The term contract has gone from exception to the rule of often too much in our society, constituting a vice whose consequences are particularly harmful to the level of wage and professional devaluation. For PS, it is essential to meet two fundamental principles: to respect the European Union's framework for the stability of working bonds for the exercise of permanent functions and to enhance competitive selection procedures based on the merit of academic and professional courses in access to public functions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after so many cases of teachers who have seen their school load increased rather than being reduced, thus making it impossible to obtain the degree of doctor, after so many cases of disregard for the principle of exemption of propina for these specific cases, after so much time of agony for a large group of citizens, who have seen their rights truly alibi, we are convinced that the Government will find a clear answer to put anything else, nothing less than justice, safeguarding the necessary strengthening of the qualification of public higher education. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party reaffirms, in this way, today in the Assembly of the Republic, its commitment to the valorization of work and knowledge, inalienable challenges for the construction of the future of our country, for the construction of the future of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u203	For an intervention, Mrs Nilza de Sena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, and also as rapporteur for petition No 541 / XII ( 4 ). ( a) the petitioners. Three draft resolutions are also under discussion on the theme of the transitional system of public higher education career status. The PSD Parliamentary Group chose not to present an initiative on this subject precisely because it had already done so on 11 June 2015, revealing its concern about the subject. At the time, none of the parties in this House spoke against, and the Socialist Party, including, voted in favour and abstained from the Communist Party and the Left Block. We have found that the Socialist Party is now presenting a project inspired by the drafting of our initiative, with some entries, perhaps by different sense of responsibility in this matter. The subject we are discussing today is dated, but it requires very careful attention to the outstanding cases. The transitional regime, proposed in 2009 by the ECDU (Study of the University Teacher Career) and the ECPDESP (Study of the College of Political Higher Education) applied to assistant teachers and invited assistants, assistants and trainees who, within five years, delivered their dissertations to obtain a degree of doctor, which allowed them to enter the career. It was with the PSD's contribution, with Law No. 8 / 2010, of May 13, that this period increased from five to six years in the case of assistants and trainee assistants. The PSD supports the qualification of the teaching staff, both in universities and in politics, but does not forget that, in the case of polytechnics, the end of the financing of the program Protec (Protect’s Programme of Support for Advanced Training of Higher Education Polytechnics) by the Socialist Party, which could precisely support the teachers of higher school politics in obtaining the degree of doctor, was a strong object to the fulfilment of these same deadlines. The Government of the majority disclosed the understanding last year, if they wish to clarify the application of some of these transitional provisions requested by this House precisely. For this reason, I believe that today the government must blame me and we ask that the teachers who are still in breach be removed. We remember that the Assembly of the Republic has already spoken twice about this matter, listening to the unions and teachers in different situations. There is a rule, which is equal and abstract, on which the Assembly of the Republic has already legislated. But because in this context there are very differentiating situations in the transitional regime, and because each case is a case, we suggest that the Government quantify, make a catalogue, report on the subject and then decide casuistically accordingly. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u205	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor for an intervention, nor for the name of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing here today three draft resolutions, the BE, the PCP, and the PS, associated with petition No 541 / XII ( 4. (a) submitted by FenPROF, which brought together 4167 signatures, and whose petitioners, here present, we have already welcomed. These draft resolutions refer to the transitional regime provided for in the state of the teaching career of public higher education. This matter was thoroughly dealt with in committee and voted in plenary in the previous Parliament, in June 2015, and was common to all parties either the recognition of the existence of situations of injustice (e.g. the undue collection of propines or the undue allocation of educational burden) or the need to take action on the practical application of this scheme. The CDS considers this matter to be serious and deserves careful attention, on a case-by-case basis and also to the set of justice replacement solutions to be put in place as soon as possible. the June discussion resulted in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 71 / 2015, adopted with the votes of the then majority PSD / CDS, as well as those of the PS, and with the abstentions—it is noted that there were no votes against — the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens. however, now, the PCP and BE pure and they have simply resubmitted the draft resolutions initialisipsis words, ignoring the recommendations — to which at present they did not object — made to the government then and subscribed by the party currently in the government. in the CDS, we maintain consistency, so we reiterate these recommendations, which is why we have not again submitted a draft resolution on this subject. In other words, since higher education institutions have not shown equal understanding in interpretation, creating, in the application of transitional standards, situations of unequal treatment that we do not consider acceptable, we recommend that the implementation of the transitional provisions of the Constitution of the College of Polytechnic Higher Education Staff be clarified, in order to know, in substance, how the universe and the types of cases that are in an irregular situation; the disclosure of an understanding of the application of those provisions, with a view to clarifying all aspects that have caused inconsistencies or possible errors of application; and the promotion, together with the CCISP (Coordinator Council of the Polytechnic Higher Institutes ), of the taking, within the existing legal framework, of the measures necessary to correct situations of poor application in view of the correct understanding of transitional provisions. What we do not subscribe to is an extension of the transitional periods, not for another three years, as the Block recommends, not until 2020, as the CFP recommends, thus transforming the transitional into a permanent one. Just as we do not subscribe to the application of equal measures for all cases, because not all cases are equal and we do not want to create new injustices from this standardization. For the CDS, this is a subject already discussed. It is now in the hands of the current Government to carry out the already suggested assessments and clarifications — and indeed, with the support of the PS — in order to find the most balanced and fair answers possible for each case. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u207	For a second speech, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the consistency of the right is also well known in this debate: they say they presented a number of recommendations, but the fact is that the government did not meet them and did not solve the problem of these teachers. And if we are having this discussion today, it is precisely because the previous government, in the face of the difficulties, did not want to solve the problem. Now, it was precisely because these problems continue to exist that the petition of FENPROF, that we greet, and that the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Socialist Party again insist on solving this problem. Can we discuss and discuss the various cases: do we agree or do we not agree with the exemption of tips for teachers who want to take the doctorate to continue teaching? Do we agree or not that teachers have a reduction in the hourly load to finish this doctorate? That's the discussion that's on the table, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. That is why it is necessary, and this is the appeal we make, for these draft resolutions to be approved so that the problem is actually solved. at the time, the argument that the right used to not solve the problem of these teachers was that of subfinance of higher education. Today, we have the courage to return to this issue and admit that the draft resolutions on the right have been approved in the Assembly but have not been met by the right-wing government itself. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u209	Mrs. Members, we move on to the next point, which is from the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 30/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent resolution of environmental problems in São Pedro da Cova ( PCP ), 99 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the complete removal of hazardous waste deposited in the former coal mines of São Pedro da Cova, Gondomar, and the measures to correct and contain environmental impacts on the site ( PSD ), 121 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of hazardous waste deposited in São Pedro da Cova, Gondomar, environmental monitoring of the landing site for information of populations and protection of public health ( PS ), 136 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to resolve the environmental liabilities of the former mines of São Pedro da Cova, Gondomar, and identify each of the actors involved in the decision-making and control chain in the deposition of toxic waste with a view to the clearance of financial and criminal responsibilities, as well as to ensure that amounts unduly paid ( CDS-PP ), 144 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the conclusion of the removal and treatment of hazardous waste in the scraps of the ancient mines of São Pedro da Cova ( BE ) and 151 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Final resolution of the environmental problem resulting from the deposition of hazardous waste in S. Pedro da Cova, Gondomar ( The Greens ). To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problems of hazardous waste have been felt in São Pedro da Cova for more than 14 years. It is 14 years of environmental degradation, 14 years of serious damage to the population, who never gave up fighting for the removal of hazardous waste, and whose struggle here we welcome its fairness and persistence, also greeting here the representatives of the Freguesia Board of the Union of Fânzeres and São Pedro da Cova, today present. [[PCP applause.]] It was 14 years during which the PCP, in the overwhelming majority of times alone, repeatedly denounced the serious environmental crime that was being committed and its consequences for public health, questioning governments and proposing solutions. It was 14 years of delay of the comprehensive solution of this problem. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was between 2001 and 2002 that several tons of industrial waste was deposited in São Pedro da Cova. We are in 2016 and the population of São Pedro da Cova is still waiting to see its problem solved in its entirety. When, in September 2014, after a long process and with many years of delay, the removal of waste began, it was quickly found that existing hazardous waste exceeded the initial estimates of 88 000 tonnes and the margin of 20 % of expected error. But in addition to the wastes more, identified in the defined area of intervention, hazardous wastes were also detected outside the area of intervention and which had not initially been identified. The totality of these wastes and the resulting environmental impact result in high damage to the populations, which is fundamental to solving, and therefore it is necessary to identify and remove all of these wastes and to re-qualify the affected area. On the other hand, the environmental crime in question more than warrants compensation to the populations of São Pedro da Cova for the environmental and public health damage caused and for the late intervention to solve the environmental problem. It is also necessary to ensure that all political and criminal responsibilities in this area are undoubtedly one of the worst environmental attacks in the Port and Country District. The importance of this problem and the fairness of the demands of the population, which remain today, leads us to present again this parliamentary initiative. We do not forget here that this was a problem that could be solved in June last year when the CFP presented a draft resolution that would respond to these concerns. But PSD and CDS-PP understood that it was not important enough and, by voting against, they again pushed the problem forward and the population and the crowd that cope with the problems of waste for a while longer! The commitment we have made to the population of São Pedro da Cova, and which we have reflected in this project, is very clear: the urgent timing of the measures necessary for the accurate clearance of the amount of waste exists and its complete removal, in order to minimize the contamination of soils and groundwater, the clearance of the responsibilities for this environmental crime and the urgent environmental and cultural recovery of the entire surrounding space where hazardous waste was deposited. We propose these solutions today, as we have proposed in the past. Enough delaying the resolution of this problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u211	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Germana Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution submitted by the PSD has as its object a particularly sensitive matter for the population of São Pedro da Cova, Gondomar municipality — the deposition of thousands of tons of industrial waste in the rubble of the ancient mines of São Pedro da Cova. But this, like all the problems, has a story with principle, half and end, we expect. This situation arose in July 2001 with the permission of the then Regional Directorate for the Environment and Planning of the Territory ( DRAOT ) for that landfill. This authorisation was granted without prior and correct analysis of the type and quantities of waste that were deposited there, and there was therefore no adequate soil treatment for that purpose. This situation should have been inspected by the competent authorities, in particular by the Ministry of the Environment. Although this situation has been brought to collation several times and by several entities, in particular as regards the environmental dangers faced by the inhabitants of São Pedro da Cova, only the previous PSD / CDS Government, through an international public contest launched in December 2012 by the North CCDR ( Northern Regional Coordination and Development Commission ), initiated the process of removal of waste deposited at that site, which are considered hazardous by a study conducted by the National Civil Engineering Laboratory ( LNEC ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u213	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u214	In July 2013, the works were awarded, works that were translated into the removal, transport, storage and treatment of waste in a specialized centre. Several actions of appeal and precautionary measures were followed that sought to stop the process, but the former Government always reacted and acted in order to move forward with the removal, until, finally, the work began in October 2014, a work since long and legitimately claimed by the population of São Pedro da Cova. It is never too much to mention that the area considered for this contractualization was based on the study carried out by the LNEC in 2011 and corresponded to the project area that had been authorized in July 2001 by the then DRAOT. But the intervention by the Ministry of the Environment, which in its programme gave priority to the resolution of environmental liabilities, was not left here. In addition to the removal operation, a plan for the characterization and monitoring of water resources was developed with a view to greater knowledge and monitoring of the evolution of groundwater characteristics, in order to protect water masses and to define future uses of the territory and natural resources. The highest priority has always been to create the conditions for starting the planned removal work, fulfilling all legal procedures in order to initiate the resolution of an environmental liability with decades of existence. The previous government has never considered the start of the work as the culmination of the process; quite the contrary, it has followed a stage of assessment of the degree and extent of possible contamination of waste materials, while also finding the existence of additional hazardous wastes in order to be able to determine which appropriate and necessary intervention to complete the requalification of the entire area covered. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as I began: although we are not part of the emergence of the problem, we have contributed in a very significant way to the beginning of the end of this story. And this conclusion is now recommended to the current government, i.e. to conclude the interventions developed by its predecessors, promoting the quality of life of this population through the environmental and landscape requalification of an area of excellence of the Gondomar municipality. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u215	To present the PS draft resolution, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I greet the representatives of the Fânzeres and São Pedro da Cova Board who are present here. I would like to highlight what is most important in the draft resolutions presented here and what has to do with those matters for which we all converge. But, making an appeal to memory, there is something that still does not allow me to evolve by this kick. Appealing to the memory and appealing to the root of this problem of the deposit of waste in the mines of São Pedro da Cova, I would like to remind you that, if there was a bad assessment made by the then Regional Directorate of the Environment and the Planning of the Territory, there was also a total omission by the Municipal Chamber of Gondomar, whose management Mrs. Germana Rocha was integrated at the time. It is good, in these calls for management, for people to remember that.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u217	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u218	I was part of it, I was part of it! Mrs. Germana Rocha was attached at the time and she well knows that until 2004 the House was going to delude the population, saying that it would require information, that it would intervene, and I would never intervene. But it is also true, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are absolutely unquestionable about the negative impact the abandoned mining areas have on the quality of life of the populations and ecosystems, due to the contamination of water at the surface and deeper level and thus the serious health problems that are caused. This problem in São Pedro da Cova is exacerbated by the fact that they have been deposited in the scraps of waste mines from the former National Siderurgia, based at the time in Maia, and that they have come to verify later that they were hazardous waste and that they did not have the proper treatment before the deposit. This process of removal and treatment of waste began in 2010 with the launch of a study by an independent entity, LNEC, which came to verify the hazardousity of waste. A procedure was opened with a view to a competitive process for the complete removal and treatment of these wastes and this process was dragged over time, as has already been said, by several administrative vicissitudes. However, when the waste removal maneuvers began, it was found that the quantity exceeded widely not only what had been quantified in the study and in the book of charges, as it was going beyond the margin of surpluses itself. Given this, it is imperative now that a full quantification be made of the amount of waste to be removed, that such waste be properly removed and transported to a hazardous waste treatment and recovery unit and that, in addition, water monitoring be done at the surface level and deeper in cooperation with local authorities so that there can be information to the population and the preservation of their health.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u219	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u220	In addition, it is important that there is an environmental requalification of this entire area and that the present clock with the clock of history, going to meet the draft resolutions that were presented in this House in 2009, which led to the classification of the Cavalete do Poço de São Vicente and that called for a recovery and requalification of the entire miner complex, an integral and important part of all history and industrial heritage not only of Gondomar but of the entire northern region and even of the Country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u221	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject under discussion is not new. But first of all, I begin to greet the representatives of the Board of Freguesia of São Pedro da Cova, who are attending the session. All parties in this Chamber have a past, have a present and have a future on the question of St. Peter of the Cova. I believe that the people of St. Peter of the Cova will not have come here properly to know who has the honours to have solved the problem and who has the honours to have spoken about the problem. I suppose they came here to know what we have to do with the problem because the CDS, from this point of view, has a long history of having talked about the problem in Portugal, and even in the European Parliament, and of having put a lot of pressure on it. [[BE's protests.]] And let's be frank, ladies and gentlemen. Members: there was a moment in time, which was not as long as this — it was about a year, a year and a half ago — when much of the hazardous waste left St. Peter of the Cova. But we are not here to claim the praise, we are here to know how, once and for all, the problem is solved, and I suppose that is what people want in São Pedro da Cova, because they are tired of living, for more than 10 years, at the foot of hazardous waste. It is that, first of all, they told them that these wastes had no problem, then it was a baldness to know that they were dangerous, then it was another baldness, admitting that they were dangerous, to remove them and, when it finally seemed that the problem was solved, there had been an error in measurement and there were more waste than you imagined and they were more scattered than you imagined. The question is: how can this be resolved? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the answer is not extraordinarily complex: firstly, it is solved by identifying the waste and, secondly, by taking them out of there. The question is as simple as this one. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u223	And what is the next question? Whether there is budget allocation to do so. So that depends only on us. If all of us in this Parliament agree on this budget allocation, we must move forward and, of course, the problem will soon be solved. It is not worth our politicizing and complicating a question that, frankly, is not complicated. I only add that there is one thing we can do, and that not only concerns the people of St. Peter of the Cova but all over the country, so that the same does not happen again, and this implies a very simple thing: that guilt does not die single. Someone classified those waste as inert when they, in fact, were dangerous and toxic and that is someone who has to be held responsible; someone authorized their deposit there, and that is someone who has to be held responsible; someone mismanaged them, and that is someone who also has to be held accountable. thus, we recommend this not only from the point of view of the government, but also from the point of view of communication to the judicial authorities for the full discharge of criminal responsibilities. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u224	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Jorge Campos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block, of course, welcomes the fact that all political parties present in this Chamber are putting forward initiatives to solve a problem that has been dragging too long. Of course, it is also worth noting that initiatives were also presented in the previous legislature and that they were denied by the previous majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u226	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u227	So, in reality, this problem probably could already have a solution in motion. Now, as is public knowledge—and I will tell the story in simple terms—from May 2001 onwards, and for more than a year, thousands of tons of waste have been deposited in the former coal mines of São Pedro da Cova, from the unit of the Maia National Siderurgia. The mines, which are part of the heritage, the imaginary and the memory of the region, and which have worked for about 2000 people, were closed since March 1970. The deposition of waste, at the time considered inert, was made with the agreement of the House of Gondomar and, to what is known, with the idea of environmental and landscape requalification. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, after all, the waste was not inert and there was no environmental or landscape requalification. Moreover, only the involvement of the population, political parties, environmental associations and, in particular, the President of the São Pedro da Cova Board — who is present in the galleries and whom I greet cordially and in solidarity — has enabled a study of quantification and characterization of deposits to be conducted through the Northern Regional Coordination and Development Commission. The study was conducted by LNEC (National Laboratory of Civil Engineering), completed in 2011 and made it evident a situation that constitutes an environmental crime. According to LNEC, there would be 88 000 tonnes of high-risk waste. The presence of lead, chromium, zinc and other heavy metals, toxic substances requiring prior treatment and deposition on appropriate landfills was noted. None of that happened. in the following operation, they were removed to the Integrated Waste Management Centre of Chamusca not 88 000 tonnes, but 105 000 tonnes of waste. This means that after all, the LNEC had been wrong in the accounts, allegedly because — and I quote — the topographical plant did not correspond to the topography of the land at the waste disposal phase. The volume was much higher than calculated and therefore the problem persists, putting at risk both the ecosystem and public health. in fact, it is still unknown the dimension of what remains hidden and which threatens to contaminate, in particular, the groundwater in the surrounding areas. Therefore, the Municipal Assembly of Gondomar, on a proposal from the Left Block, approved a motion requiring a quick, technical and environmentally appropriate solution, going, moreover, to encounter other positions in the same direction. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block Parliamentary Group reiterates the urgent need for measures which, once and for all, put an end to this environmental crime and which, in particular, the Assembly of the Republic recommends to the Government the insistence, with the competent authorities, to follow up on the work on the removal and treatment of hazardous waste that still exists in the scraps of the former mines of S. Pedro da Cova.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u228	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u229	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Left Block Parliamentary Group also expresses its full willingness to cooperate with all other political parties in this House in order to fully clarify the situation and, where appropriate, to clear up responsibilities, taking away the inherent consequences. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u230	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Greens Parliamentary Group, I would like to begin by greeting the Fr. Pedro da Cova Board and, in particular, its President, who is here to attend this session. If Mr President will allow me, I would also like to welcome the entire population of S. Pedro da Cova, which has been absolutely untiring — such as your parish board in particular — in contact with various entities, in particular with the different parliamentary groups in the Assembly of the Republic, in order to resolve this situation definitively. I would like to remind you here that the Group of the Greens has already received, in this very legislature in which we are located, the Board of Referees of St. Peter of the Cova, the purpose of which is precisely to warn us once again - and I assume that the other parliamentary groups too - of the need and urgency of the resolution of this situation. Mrs Cecilia Meireles said that what matters now to resolve the situation is budgetary allocation. « And indeed! But before that, or at the same time, what is essential is that there is a political will to resolve this situation. And give me an idea, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that political will has been failing during successive governments in order to lead us to the definitive non-resolution of the situation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I believe that the importance of these draft resolutions is precisely to demonstrate that we are all committed to a political will in order to resolve the situation, to the resolution of an environmental liability which has tormented, particularly, that town, that region and that particular population. in fact—and other parliamentary groups here have said so —, waste resulting from the extinction of the Siderurgia National da Maia plant was deposited in the former coal mines of S. Pedro da Cova and the great and legitimate fear of the population is that, in view of that quantity and the type of waste, there is a problem of contamination of aquifers, soils and consequently of damage to public health of the populations. They were assured that they were non-hazardous wastes, but it was later discovered that they were, after all, hazardous wastes. People's alarm! A legitimate alarm, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2011, LNEC ensured that waste was in fact highly hazardous and that there was a serious threat of contamination of fraternal sheets. It is true that it was a very long process. at the end of 2014 the waste removal work started, but on a wrong basis, an absolutely wrong quantification base, because it was framed in a quantity of 88 000 tonnes of waste with an error margin of 20 %. It came to be verified after, either in the surrounding areas or in the area of intervention itself, the amount of waste was very much higher. We don't know, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the amount can go twice as far as it has been removed, triple or quadruple! We are talking about a huge amount of waste, which is indeed necessary to know. The Greens therefore come to propose to the Assembly of the Republic a very direct recommendation to the Government to proceed with the complete — underlining, comprehensive — removal! — not only partial of the hazardous waste deposited in S. Pedro da Cova, which promotes an assessment and monitoring of impacts resulting from this deposition and which also guarantees, — an extraordinarily important issue — the environmental and landscape requalification of this area. Basically, I believe that the population of S. Pedro da Cova, after so many years of wear and not yet seeing the situation resolved, deserves the environmental, cultural and social appreciation of its location. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u232	For a second intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the interventions of the PSD and the CDS, it is clear that these parties want to make believe that they were not in the government and that they were unable to resolve the situation in June 2015. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, where was the simple response from the CDS in June 2015 when they voted against the PCP project that proposes, exactly, the identification and integral removal of waste? The CFP is today, as it has always been since the beginning, on the side of the population of S. Pedro da Cova and is available to resolve, ultimately, this problem of the integral removal of the wastes of S. Pedro da Cova and not to stay in the way. It is important to identify the waste and proceed to its complete removal, as well as to the environmental and cultural requalification of the region, fundamental actions to compensate the population of S. Pedro da Cova, which has been so damaged in the last 14 years due to the lack of a solution to this problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u234	Mr Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u235	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I know that the situation of your party may in fact justify the launch of an extraordinary time of voting. But everything has to have limits! [[PCP protests.]] Everything has to have limits! Ask the honourable Member what the CDS did and if I had forgotten that we were in the government. No, Madam Member, I have not forgotten, and I will explain to you that, while you have done nothing but speak, this party, which has actually been in the government, has taken more than 100 000 tonnes of waste from S. Pedro da Cova mines. That's the difference! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]] The honourable Member has never done anything rigorously than speaking and, I must say, in an extraordinarily demagogic way. Frankly, either the subject or the population deserved a little more! on the contrary, this party denounced the situation several times.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u236	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u237	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, this party not only denounced the situation several times in Portugal, as it did in the European Parliament, which contributed a lot to the solution of the problem. In fact, today there is less than 100 000 tonnes or 105 000 tonnes of toxic waste, and that is intrinsically good.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u238	And how many tons are there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u239	And what did the honourable Member do to contribute to that? Nothing! And you know what this party did? He was in the government and, in fact, removed tons of toxic waste there. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u240	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a chance in the House that those who normally close the debates are the ones who are moving forward with the agenda. in the specific case, the Bureau only allowed this final intervention of Mr Cecilia Meireles, of the CDS-PP, which I considered to be the end, because effectively in the intervention of the PCP Member, the CDS-PP bench was directly referred to. So, having time, it was obvious that I had to give the word. In the meantime, Mrs. Germana Rocha asked for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u241	To make an inquiry to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u242	But is it an inquiry to the Bureau about the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u243	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u244	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u245	Mr. President, thank you. The appeal is to request that the Bureau should ensure that a copy of Decree-Law No 239 / 97 of 9 September 9, in particular Article 9 ( 3 ) is distributed to this House, which assigns the responsibility for the authorisation of the deposit to the Ministry of the Environment, in particular to its regional director and not to the Municipal Chamber of Gondomar. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u246	If you send the document to the Bureau, it will be distributed. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will come to the last point on our agenda, which is from the evaluation of draft resolutions Nos 38 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the secondary school of Quinta do Peru in the parish of Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra ( BE ), 19 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent construction of the secondary school of Quinta do Conde, municipality of Sesimbra, Setúbal district ( PCP ), 137 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the Quinta do Conde secondary school, Sesimbra municipality, Setúbal district ( CDS-PP ), 142 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the Peruvian secondary school in the parish of Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra ( PSD ), 147 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Need for urgent construction of a secondary school in Quinta do Conde, municipality of Sesimbra ( The Greens) and 149 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prioritise the construction of the school of Quinta do Peru in the municipality of Sesimbra ( PS ) and petition No 4 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Council of Freguesia of Quinta do Conde and by the Associations of Parents of the Schools of Quinta do Conde, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to take measures to allow You to speak, to open the debate and present the draft of the Block of Left, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to greet the petitioners who are in the galleries and start by saying that the petition that gave rise to this draft resolution is a very fair claim and for many years of the population of Quinta do Conde and the population of Sesimbra. Quinta do Conde is the parish that has grown most in population terms in recent years, with a young population, mainly characterized by young couples with children, and in which the only secondary school that exists, the Michel Giacometti School, obviously cannot respond to all students. It is a school that has been designed for 800 students and which currently counts with 1200. In addition to the obvious overcrowding, it works, like many other schools in this country, in pre-fabricated pavilions, which have been in existence for a number of years and are completely damaged. This school welcomes students who normally pass from 3. the cycle of basic education that transit to secondary education. Students from other schools, the Basic School of Good Water and the Basic School of Quinta do Conde, have no placement in Michel Giacometti School, therefore, do not have placement in the parish, nor in their municipality. It means that all these students, and they are enough, per year, to continue their studies and complete their schooling, which is compulsory, are obliged to leave their council for other municipalities, such as the Seixal, the Barreiro or Setúbal, but also for Almada and even Lisbon, in fact, where they get a vacancy. This is a huge problem and, if we consider the students of the 10. o, 11. o and 12. the years, are close to 1000 students per year that each year have to move out of the municipality to get them to study and complete the compulsory education they are required. This district, as you should know, has a serious disability in collective transport — collective transport is very poor — there are no frequent transports, there are in many cases no connections between municipalities, which complicates the travel of students, which often have to go to municipalities so far from Sesimbra that their daily travel, in order to study, takes three or more hours. This, of course, implies enormous wear on these students and I think everyone will agree that they are not able to promote proper learning and school success to which they are entitled, but it also implies a huge increase, and often unbearable for many families, of travel expenses, of transport costs. And this effort, in terms of expenditure, is made by families, but also by the authority, which supports part of the school passes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u248	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u249	I will now finish, Mr President. As serious as all this is that these students who leave outside the council cannot choose the study areas so that they feel qualified, because they are already occupied by the students who reside in the areas of the schools of the other municipalities. The high school of Quinta do Peru had already approved project, had a land transferred by the City Council, had started activity marked for the academic year 2013 / 2014 and all this was stopped in the previous legislature, by the previous Government of the right majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u250	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u251	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. I now realize that all parliamentary groups have projects and agree on the construction of this school. I welcome him and I am delighted to see that we are all finally in agreement with the need for the construction of the secondary school of Quinta do Peru, in Quinta do Conde, which will serve the students of Quinta do Conde and Azeiton. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u252	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first word for us to address the authorships, teachers, parents, students present today in the Assembly of the Republic to attend this debate so important to the parish of Quinta do Conde and to the council of Sesimbra. [[PCP applause.]] A greeting, also, by the dynamization of the petition which is also discussed here, petition that has more than 5000 signatures and claims the construction of a secondary school in the parish of Quinta do Conde, in the municipality of Sesimbra. This is a demand that is not today, it is long ago, but as time goes by, it has become increasingly urgent. Recently, we had the opportunity to visit several schools in Sesimbra and, in fact, we faced the reflection and evidence of the policies of de-investment in public school and in education, where there are enormous gaps in the re-qualification of buildings, especially with regard to the overcrowding in which schools are located. In fact, the growth in this council and in this parish has not been accompanied by the government's building of school equipment to meet the needs of the young population and to ensure education, an adequate quality learning that students can have greater success in school. That is why today we are also bringing to the Assembly of the Republic an initiative in which we propose the urgent construction of this school and that the procedures for its implementation be developed as soon as possible. It is because, as has already been mentioned, in addition to the issues related to demographic developments, there is only one school offering this level of education, which responds to about 400 students, but most of the students attending this level of education are obliged to leave their land, their council, going to the neighbouring councils, which leads to increased costs that families and authorities have to bear, there is also the question of spending time which, of course, harms these students. Education is a right, education is an investment. Guaranteeing a quality school for these students is an investment that we must all make so that they can have the greatest possible success in their lives. We therefore consider it a huge hypocrisy—we cannot say it in any other way! — that parties such as the PSD and the CDS which, when they were in the government, suspended the process that was under way —... [[PSD protests.]] ... and we agreed that it would run within the framework of the School Park, should be managed directly by the Ministry of Education—and, over these four years, there has been no development towards the construction of this school, now recommend that same construction. We therefore support the struggle of the authorities, the school community, the population, the students and we are here to defend the urgent construction of this school. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u254	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What unites all parties today, here in the Hemicycle, is the presentation of draft resolutions that recommend to the Government the construction of the much-needed secondary school in the parish of Quinta do Conde. What brings us here today, the Plenary, is a problem, but it's a good problem. And it is a good problem because, unlike in many other parts of the country, the population of Quinta do Conde has been increasing and school equipment needs to accompany this growth. According to the latest INE data, more than 50 % of the population of the municipality of Sesimbra lives in Quinta do Conde and about 20 % are children and young people. Having also recently visited the council and its various schools, accompanied by the Vice-President of the City Council, the President of the Municipal Assembly and the directors of the various institutions—which are present here, together with teachers, students and parents, and which I have already had occasion to welcome—I was given to see and prove the real difficulties of the school park and the limitations at the level of secondary education. The existing secondary school, Michel Giacometti, has no effective ability to respond to the demand, currently receiving about 400 students, well above the threshold of the behavior. Thus, many students have to seek a vacancy in other schools outside Quinta do Conde or, even in neighbouring municipalities, which implies travel time, costs associated with this travel and sometimes opportunity costs resulting from limiting the choice of courses possible. The need for this school actually goes through several governments and we can discuss past responsibilities, which, from the point of view of the parliamentary debate, is always a lively time but at nothing solves the real and concrete problem of the people present here. The current PS Government, in the Resolution of the Council of Ministers of 21 January, allocates EUR 340 million to the School Park for the next three years. We therefore believe that the conditions for ensuring the budgetary allocation are met to the extent fair and appropriate for the construction of this new secondary school, for which, moreover, the City Council has already given way to the land and for which there is also an approved project. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u256	To present the PSD draft resolution, Mr Bruno Vitorino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u257	I welcome you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, I welcome the petitioners, the teachers and students present here, the autarchs, in the person of Mr. President, Augusto Pólvora, recognizing the commitment of all present here and of all parties in this same cause, a just cause. Quinta do Conde is in fact a young parish, a great parish that has grown immensely in recent years. The population grew faster than the ability of public authorities to respond adequately to the needs of the same population. I know that well, because I've even lived there for many years. And, of course, I am talking about government at local and national level. Recognizing the efforts of local power in resolving many of its responsibilities, much has been done, but much is still to be done. The same is true at national level. Despite the heavy inheritance of the socialist government, the previous government, PSD / CDS-PP, managed to resolve many outstanding issues, which had long been dragged in the district of Setúbal, in the municipality of Sesimbra, and also in the parish of Quinta do Conde. These are examples of the early joint work between government and authority for the renewal of the Rodrigues Soromenho School and the passage from the Sanctuary of Cape Espichel to the municipality, as well as, and those already executed, of the construction of the Quinta do Conde Health Centre and also of the reinforcement of the pre-school network. But we're going to high school in Quinta do Peru. We all agree that this is a necessity and, having resolved other priorities, particularly in the area of health, you pay a lot of debts in the country, particularly in the area of education, it is time to deal with this school. We cannot only make it clear what some parties in the'management' are trying to do here today. They're trying to pass the idea that it should already be done, and maybe I should, but was there money for that? Oh, my God! No, there wasn't! And where was that money spent? Oh, my God! Do you really think that this type of baco argument, which is basically, repeatedly used, that the previous government did not want to do, that it was not interested in the people, has any adherence to reality? Oh, my God! Do you think anyone believes in you? Oh, my God! I am sorry, but this is « galambices », used by the public in any logic of osmosis, throughout the « germination». [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u258	The truth is uncomfortable!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u259	They are falsifying arguments, without any kind of adherence to reality, that only want to whiten out what was the inheritance of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] The socialist government of José Socrates has effectively destroyed the country. We ran out of money for nothing, full of debts and with very, very high interest!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u260	And, now, is there any money? Oh, my God! They also presented a draft resolution!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u261	Do you want specific examples? Let's go to the school party, to such a party that some did, but that was paid with everybody's money, and let's figure out where the money was that could actually have been spent on building that school, like many others by the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u262	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u263	And let's see what the Court of Auditors audit report says. It is noted that the overall amount of investment planned for the implementation of the Modernisation Programme of the School Park was largely exceeded, and subsequently revised, from 940 million, to the modernization of 332 schools, to 3100 million, covering only 205 schools. Furthermore, for the remaining 120 schools, and to consider the average amount of investment per school, of 15 million, more EUR 1800 million would be needed, adding up to EUR 3000 million already spent, totaling more than EUR 5000 million to meet the objectives of the proposed Modernisation Programme. Initially, we were talking about EUR 940 million! The School Park party, which was a big party paid with all of us money, made several newspaper titles, such as : School Park paid 236, 5 million illegally or School Park paid in one school three million, etc. The question is simple: the debts of the School Park exceed EUR 1100 million. Could the school be done? I could, of course, actually,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u264	But is there money now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u265	... with the debt money we had not made just one school in Quinta do Conde, not 10, we had made 100 schools all over the country! It's worth thinking about! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u266	Also to present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Group of the Greens, I would like to welcome and acknowledge the merit of the petitioners, who, at the beginning of the legislature, went to the Assembly of the Republic to request that something which is absolutely necessary in the parish of Quinta do Conde, which is the construction of a new secondary school, be resolved. Mr Bruno Vitorino said that there were many parties held by several governments and that, because of the parties, there was no possibility of building the secondary school of Quinta do Peru in Quinta do Conde. Sir, we could hear about a lot of parties here. I could even remind you of some parties and many rockets that have aired, in great loss to the Portuguese. [[Protests by PSD MP Bruno Vitorino.]] Look there if you remember some, like BPN, BPP, BCP, BES... you see the party that went to the banks, Mr? Oh, my God! And do you see the damage that has resulted from here to the people? Oh, my God! [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] You see where the money is missing? Oh, my God! That's right! Open... You know, Mr: is that policy is made of options and, indeed, you have not made great choices for the benefit of the Portuguese population. [[PSD protests.]] But I am also referring to previous governments, not just yours! Look, Mr. Deputies, when he gave you to close schools, they were more than forward. They closed schools with few students... it was closing, closing, closing! If they had been so eager to build the necessary schools when we talked about supersurviving... oh, Mr. Bruno Vitorino, you know what's going on here?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u268	It's $3 billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u269	That you were not concerned about the quality of teaching. [[PSD protests.]] Of course not! Your eyes only see numbers in front of you, sir! [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] Quality of people's lives, promoting what is fundamental to the development of the country, that does not see! You have always seen sectors as fundamental as education as a expense! If it was expense, it was necessary to cut, cut, cut...! [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, the Greens have always said, and they will continue to say, that in education what is done is investment. It is a key sector for the promotion of the development of the country and for the qualification of our people. And, honourable Member, school structures are fundamental parts for education. Or aren't they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u270	They are!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u271	Look, Mr President, what happens, as has already been mentioned, is that we have a school population in Quinta do Conde very much higher than that which is the response of the school establishments in that parish, and can also serve other parishes, and the previous government has not made money available for the construction of the school. That was the big question. Mr President, we must recognise the work of great merit which the City Council of Sesimbra has done in this regard, in particular the educational charter and the assignment of land for the construction of the equipment, and by the central power there was no answer. however, there is enormous damage to those families of Quinta do Conde because, according to other Mrs. Members mentioned here, those children and young people have to travel to other municipalities, such as Setúbal, Palmela, Barreiro, Seixal, Almada... These are more costs for families, are hours wasted in transport by those children and those young people. Mr President, we have to look at concrete experiences. This is not wasting money,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u272	We didn't swing, we paid!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u273	... this is investing in the country, it is investing in promoting the quality of life of the population, it is investing in the future of the country! You didn't learn. For you, people only deserved cuts, cuts, cuts... this situation must be reversed, Mr. Deputies. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u274	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u275	I conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: I believe that the population has already understood very well that the PSD and CDS are actually in the opposition. And why are they really good at the opposition? Because they even presented a draft resolution for the construction of the new school of Quinta do Conde. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u276	Welcome, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u277	To present the PS draft resolution, Mr André Pinotes Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, allow me, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, to greet all those who represent the petitioners here today and to mention the whole community as much as possible for the civic commitment with which you have dealt with this dossier, which has contributed decisively, you have to say, for the work we have done here and also for us to reach this apparent consensus, which we will talk about later. I would also like to tell you that this is not really just a regional issue. The desire for a more just and responsible society, more qualified and dynamic, more democratic and civic, necessarily passes through continuous investment in education. Mrs. Members, the demographic recession registered in Portugal in recent years, brutally accentuated by the governance of the PSD / CDS... [[PSD protests.]] You know it's true. As I said, the demographic recession recorded in the last few years in Portugal, brutally accentuated by the governance of the PSD / CDS, configures a scourge in the national panorama. [[PSD protests.]] It is in this sense that the context of Quinta do Conde's parish deserves our special attention for setting up an honorable exception. According to the 2011 Censuses, Quinta do Conde was the highest-growth parish in the whole country, highlighting the fact that 25% of this population is young. however, the overcrowding framework inherent in the shortage of educational supply in this territory has serious consequences, already widely recognized in this plenary. If, on the one hand, the displacements to neighbouring municipalities rise, in some cases, to three hours, increasing the costs borne by family aggregates, on the other hand, indeliblely condition the curricular choices, as well as the promotion of school success of more than 1000 students. Let us be clear: this reality imposes the tremendous challenge of providing this region with equipment that enables the provision of a quality public service, especially at the level of education, despite the framework of budgetary rigour we live in, as well as the financing mechanisms currently available. Mrs. Members, let us be transparent: the apparent unanimity reflected in the various draft resolutions presented today around the building of this infrastructure consists of an illustrious political pinote on the right of Portugal in this Parliament. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u279	The way PSD and CDS present themselves today, in this House, configures a metaphor, happy or unhappy for Portuguese people, as they also present themselves to the country. on the one hand, in the tone of orange, they practice strange hymns to social-democracy, not being practiced in the power of these same ideological principles. [[PSD protests.]] They imperish in the attempt that your legacy of destruction, so well-listed by former Minister Nuno Crato, be erased. [[PSD protests.]] On the other hand, in a tone of more dull blue, an appreciable attempt is being made to erase the participation of the CDS in the government that has most weakened the social state while it was doing a brutal increase in taxes. [[CDS-PP protests.]] This disorientation is reflected in the projects we analyze today. Mrs. Members of the CDS, allow me to elucidate you on a matter. The mention by you of the EUR 340 million, enshrined in the resolution of the Council of Ministers already mentioned today, constitutes a pernicious fallacy that has to be dismantled. Believing that they did the « homework», by knowing your parliamentary practice... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. President, thank you for giving me some tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u280	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few more minutes of calm, because the session is almost over.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u281	You understand the agitation, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u282	It's hard to hear the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u283	I continue to say that the EUR 340 million referred to in the CDS intervention deserves a note on our part because it is a pernicious fallacy that must be dismantled. [[CDS-PP protests.]] It is known that these recently contracted funds are inherent in the renegotiation carried out on 6 December 2012 and are devoted to the payment of debt and also to the payment of illegally contracted debts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u284	These things need to be clarified so as not to mislead the population. These means are not available for infrastructure construction. [[PSD protests.]] Finally, Mr President, I mean that the PSD intervention leads us to see the huge difference between the moment you suspended this project and the way they are presented here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u285	The audit is from the Court of Auditors!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u286	The great difference is that at present, with government responsibilities, all administrative and political initiatives have been stopped so that this establishment is a reality; today, free from the burden of governance, they bear the pains that we all have already assumed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u287	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u288	The PS defends, without prejudice to the other equipment in the territory, the contemplation of the construction of the Quinta do Peru secondary school and, contrary to what you have done in the last four years, we will defend the National Education Service to the limit of our forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u289	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we've reached the end of the debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u290	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u291	He's going to defend the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u292	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u293	Mr President, very quickly, I would like to mention two aspects. Mr. Bruno Vitorino brought here the report of the Court of Auditors' audit, but I leave the following question to him: before this audit, what did your government do for four years to extinguish the School Park?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u294	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u295	It didn't go out!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u296	He paid!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u297	It went on! The CFP presented this proposal. More: Mr Bruno Vitorino, among many, made a reference here, as mentioned in the PSD draft resolution, to which there were funds for the re-qualification of the Rodrigues Soromenho School of Browsers. Where? Have you gone to school yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u298	Ask the President of the House!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u299	Sir, I was there 15 days ago and what we saw at that time...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u300	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u301	... was exactly a school that urgently needs an extension, because students are having classes in conditions that are not at least adequate, including in meals. Do you think that's the solution? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u302	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u303	Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that in this debate we saw clearly a hypocrisy of the PSD and the CDS, that once again there are now concerns here, cry « crocodile tears», but when they were in the government they could have solved the problem and did not do so. And why didn't they do it? Because they preferred to benefit economic and financial groups, to the detriment of public school. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-11.u304	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 38/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), 19 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 137 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 142 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 147 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 149 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and petition No 4 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and also at the end of our agenda today. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the following agenda: from point 1, there are elections for three bodies outside the Assembly, specifically for the Higher Council on Internal Security, for the Committee on Equality and Against Racial Discrimination and for the Higher Council on Information. in point 2, the fifteen-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. A preparatory discussion of the next European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, under Article 4(1) ( a ), shall follow. that of the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process, Finally, in point 4, there will be legislative votes. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 31 minutes.]]
