ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Members are in joint discussion, in general, the projects of lein.o 279 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Alter the Framework Law of independent administrative entities with functions for regulating the economic activity of private, public and cooperative sectors approved by Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ( The Greens ), 179 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Framework Law of Regulators, approved by Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August, and amends the Statute of the Public Manager, approved by Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March ( BE ), and 299 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ( Framework Law of Regulators ) ( CDS-PP ). To present the Green Bill, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, we all bear in mind the controversy about the remuneration of the administrators of independent administrative entities, when the administrators of ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ) experienced a salary increase of about 150 %. However, in one of the most unequal countries in the European Union in terms of wages, and above all in an economic context like the one in which we live, this scandalous immorality was only possible because the current law allows it. In fact, Law No. 67 / 2013, with the help of indeterminate and flexible concepts, leads to the conduct of those who took advantage of the situation being only worthy of ethical censorship. It is therefore necessary to review the text of the law in order to prevent the immorality of this dimension from repeated. It is true that, in preparing for this legislative initiative, the Greens have questioned all the regulators about the salaries they have exercised. But it is also true that, of the nine entities questioned, two have not responded, which reveals not only the respect that ANAC and AMT (Mobility and Transport Authority) have for this House and for the law that obliges them to respond to parliamentary requirements, but also attests to the incompetence of those who drive them millionairely. We can turn around what we want, but an administrator who does not comply with the law is above all incompetent to perform public functions. With regard to salaries, with the exception of the Health Regulatory Entity, all the presidents of the board of directors of the other regulators have dues higher than the Prime Minister, most of them with salaries in the order of €16 000 and €17 000 per month, outside the rest. However, efforts are being made to increase the poverty pensions of the generality of pensioners and pensioners and to increase the national minimum wage. This situation cannot continue. It is necessary to restore some justice in this real refreshment. The proposal made by the Greens is simple: the salaries of these administrators become the highest benchmark in the respective entity's maturity table, plus a maximum of 40 % for representation expenses. In addition, the Greens also propose that the use of credit cards and other payment instruments, cars, communications, premiums, supplements and enjoyment of social benefits constitute remuneration for tax purposes. On the other hand, and since the workers of these entities are literally unprotected, in particular because the administrators discreetly manage the labour rights of the workers without any limit and without any internal or external trade union, the Greens propose that the representatives of the workers turn to speak in all matters concerning them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u4	Finally, and considering that the Assembly of the Republic currently has a merely decorative role in the process of appointing administrators, as in fact it was visible with the position of the previous government, which it had in the appointment of administrators, despite the negative opinion of this House, The Greens intend to strengthen the role of the Assembly of the Republic in these processes, in particular by assigning a binding nature to the opinion of this House and strengthening the regime of incompatibilities of the administrators of these entities. For us, we did our part. We now hope that the rest of the banks will do their work in order to moralize the salaries of the administrators of the administrative entities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u5	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members : We are starting our work today with the discussion of three draft laws which include common proposals in part concerning some amendments to the Framework Law of independent regulatory entities, but which, in the case of Bill No 179/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), the Left Block, also affects amendments to the Statute of the Public Manager, as regulated by Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March 2007. The proposals we make are clear, precise and concise and aim at two clear, precise and concise objectives: first, on the reduction of huge wage inequalities in the state and also in the country, in a country which is the fifth most unequal in the European Union to 25 in terms of personal monetary income; and second, which will contribute to the elimination of unacceptable privileges of public managers, strengthening the application of transparency principles in the determination of salaries of top state managers. The proposals of the Left Block were raised by a singular fact made public on 1 February 2016. It was then known that the salaries of the members of the ANAC Board of Directors had suffered an increase of more than 250 %. All because the Compensation Commission claimed that the dues are in accordance with the framework law, since the previous public institute, the INAC ( National Civil Aviation Institute ), had become an independent regulatory entity, ANAC, on 1 April 2015. Therefore, the link between the salaries of these managers and the framework law does not arise from any manner of pursuing the Left Block to these administrators, but rather from the deliberations of the said Compensation Commission. And in this particular point, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs was right. In fact, as soon as ANAC became an independent regulatory entity, the criteria for fixing remuneration included in its framework law should apply. Only after a series of hearings in Parliamentary committee, of various committees of independent auditors and regulatory entities, and despite the framework law, do include several criteria for the salaries of their administrators, including an ambiguous reference to the Prime Minister's salary, is the fact that, on the one hand or on the other, the audits conducted and the salary grids consulted contain a single reference for the definition of the salaries of the administrations of independent regulators: the salary of the Vice-Governor of the Banco de Portugal. What does a salary of an illustrious vice- governor of Banco de Portugal have to do with any independent regulatory entity? Zero! As it is known, the Banco de Portugal is a special monetary authority which, in statutory terms, does not fall within the framework law of independent regulatory entities and works under the joint protection of the European Central Bank and the Portuguese State. Despite this, the various salaries commissions used and abused this reference to justify million wages in independent regulators. It was thus demonstrated that the criteria for the determination of remunerations, the nullity of the salaries commissions and the convivence of their deliberations in the fixing of million wages for these managers, which constitute an insult to democracy, the people and the country. History shows that there is no possible reform for this type of practice. With such or such composition, with more or less representatives of this or of that, the payout commissions are held in a labyrinth of criteria from which they will not be able to exit. Therefore, the determination of the salaries of public managers, wherever they are, should have as a reference greater the remuneration of the political protection exercised by the member of the respective Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u7	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u8	I shall now conclude, Mr President. It is hardly compatible with the principles of independence that someone appointed by a member of a government has a higher remuneration than he appoints. contrary to what can be invoked, such nominations create invisible links of dependence that do not in any way favor the so-called independence of regulators. In conclusion, Mr President, I will say that these proposals will have an additional advantage: they make everything much simpler and clearer. Simpler, clearer, more transparent, leading to a much greater fight against wage inequalities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u9	To present the draft law of the CDS-PP, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Regulation plays a key role in a social market economy. We can only guarantee true and healthy competition by correcting the failures and attacking the abuses of the market, and this must always be done through strong, capable regulatory entities, but with independence from the government and with autonomy from the political power. That is why the CDS, unlike others, has always argued that regulation should be ensured by independent administrative entities that do not directly depend on a government and do not respond directly to a government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u11	Ensuring the independence of such regulatory entities means having a system of appointment of its holders in which the Government is to be proposed and Parliament has the right to vote on the names proposed by the Government, in particular through a prior public hearing of its members, whose appointment should be for the President of the Republic. We have already proposed a constitutional review in the past to allow this change and we will certainly return to the subject, because this is an effective way to strengthen the independence of regulators.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u13	But we cannot fail to note that in recent years Portugal has evolved, and well, and also with the contribution of the CDS, in the form of appointment and scrutiny of these same regulators. Today, regulators are subject to a prior opinion of CRESAP ( Public Administration Recruitment and Selection Commission ) to assess the ability of each member to perform the regulatory function. Today, Parliament elects the regulators through a prior and public hearing of their members but also through regular, mandatory hearings in the committees, every year, and today there are also established rules regarding the maturity of these same regulators. None of this affects their independence; on the contrary, being the regulators of the State, being the regulators of the public interest, should be subject to clear and objective rules. That is why it is so difficult for many Portuguese to realize why, by establishing the law as the salary limit of regulators the Prime Minister, there are regulators who are receiving much beyond that same value, doubling it and triple it. in this sense, a strong regulator needs, we know, of capable people, and this has a cost, but we cannot accept that the law sets as the maximum reference value the salary of the Prime Minister and then we see, in practice, several regulators to overcome this same maturity, especially in a time of restraint, at a time when so many sacrifices are required to the Portuguese. What we want with this diploma is to ensure that, for each regulator, through the due diligence committees, the effective spirit of the legislator, ensuring that public servants have a limit, and that limit is the salary of the Prime Minister. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u14	For an intervention, Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party generally agrees with the legislative initiatives that are being brought to us today. A strong state ensures effective market regulation and this is achieved only by an effort of regulatory and supervisory entities. It is therefore important to have truly independent regulators. Only this independence ensures its effective action. However, we cannot ignore the origin of these legislative initiatives. However, origin consists of an unfortunate episode, brought to the public, which took place in the previous government by a capcious appointment that intended to favour someone to the detriment of the common good. We in the PS have a clear position on these matters and we generally follow what is brought to us here. Well, it is important to reflect not only on wages and their limits; it is important, more than that, to reflect on which regulators we want, which entities we want to regulate economic activity and markets, or whether we want regulatory entities that, in addition to their economic market regulation functions, have cumulative administrative activities that should compete solely and exclusively with the Public Administration. That is what we have to do today, tomorrow and in the coming days. These legislative initiatives cannot mean the end of them themselves, but the beginning of a long debate that needs to be signed, with commitment and loyalty, with the Republic and the Portuguese State, but above all with respect for the economic agents and for the economic activity that needs to be regulated. This is the commitment of the Socialist Party now and in the near future: to defend the State through effective market regulation, to give power, powers and responsibilities to regulators to fulfil their role and, in fact, to enable them to function well because, thus, the economy that also needs strong regulation also works well, as the State needs strong and well-regulated markets. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u16	Mr Carlos Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2013, the Framework Law of Regulators was approved, whose legal framework introduced a set of rules and guidelines which, at the same time, brought greater transparency to the system and strengthened the conditions of regulatory independence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u18	And ten what he owes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u19	Criteria such as the size, complexity, requirement and responsibility inherent in the functions, economic environment, the need for adjustment and remunerative containment in which the country is located and the monthly maturity of the Prime Minister are the reference framework. in our perspective, the legislation is clear: it set criteria in the form of a recommendation aimed at adapting each entity to its specificity and sector and at the same time served the economic reality of the country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a market economy it is absolutely critical to have regulators capable of defending the values of free and healthy competition. In a modern country we cannot admit the capture of regulators by the regulators, thereby overthrowing the foundations of our economy and democracy. Sadly, there have been abuses. But I ask, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, were the beacons incomprehensible? Was the legislator not clear about what he wrote? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is clear that the abuse of wage increases for stratospheric values was a real insult to the Portuguese population, in a country that had just left a bankruptcy and was experiencing tremendous difficulties with pay cuts in wages and pensions. This situation was at least obscene. But, incomprehensible and inadequately, while seeking to introduce restrictions on regulators, this left-wing government has changed the rules of remuneration of the administrators of the General Deposit Board, putting an end to all existing limits in a scandalous way. Do you not feel that dues for you — you, left-wing government — are inadequate, unjust and excessive? Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, this is not a question of legality, it is a question of ethics and morals. Don't you feel ashamed? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] I also ask: what justifies the administrators of the General Deposit Box to increase four or five times more than the Prime Minister? Oh, my God! In politics, coincidences are rare and things are usually what they seem. Unfortunately, for Portugal and for the Portuguese, it seems that this left-wing Government is seeking to weaken those who have the task of regulating markets and at the same time to strengthen operators. If that's what it's meant to be, they assume it in front of the Portuguese! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u20	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will only read a part of the intervention which the CFP made three years ago when the law in force was passed in the House: « What the articulation of this bill allows, as it is written, is that an administrator of one of these entities can earn twice what the President of the Republic earns, with more than 40% in representation expenses, and after leaving office, to stay home without doing anything for two years and win as much as the President of the Republic. In the meantime, the workers of these entities are denied the link to the State with the imposition of the individual employment contract.'
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u22	Back up, again!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u23	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the CFP said this in plenary. PSD and CDS-PP made mucosal ears. It was not for lack of warning that they passed the law that is in force. Do not now pretend to be scandalized and surprised by the law that you approved three years ago in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u25	It is necessary to change the scandalous situation that has been caused, but it must also be seen — and, taking advantage of this debate, we must not forget — that while we are discussing salaries of administrators who have increased 150 %, we continue to have a lack of conditions and means on the ground to fully carry out the tasks of the workers, systematically resorting to outsourcing, exacerbating inequalities, injustices and enhancing problems that must be avoided and not caused by placing two, three or more labour and wage regimes for the same functions, by the regime in force. This is the concrete reality that exists and cannot be omitted when we discuss these situations and these entities. The CFP has already stressed that this framework law of independent administrative entities, such as in the previous debate on the Statute of the Public Manager in force, both determined by the PSD / CDS government, has aggravated injustices and asymmetries that have already been felt in Portugal in terms of wage distribution. Labour income represents an increasing share of the wealth produced and, on the other hand, the highest wages in our country do not stop growing. What the CFP proposed this week in the Assembly of the Republic was that there could be limitations on salaries in the public and in the private to index remuneration to the Prime Minister's salary and to contribute to a real attenuation of wage asymmetries.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u27	This is because the remuneration policy in the State and also in the independent administrative entities should not aggravate the situation that exists, but rather contribute to a fair distribution of wealth. That's the meaning of what the PCP defends. When we look at the initiative that the Greens Ecology Party has launched and allocated to this plenary session, we welcome it, as well as the innovative, just, appropriate and rigorous solution that does not harm the workers of these entities and that it also defends their status and working conditions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u28	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the CDS presented this legislative initiative, it also did so for a matter of consistency. The law says that there is a reference to the salaries of independent administrative entities, regulators, which is the salary of the Prime Minister. If this is not being checked in practice, here we are to correct the law. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u30	We do so in harmony with what we have said in the past, but we also do so in consistency with what we defend for the payment of the salaries of public managers, exactly unlike the hypocrisy that fats on the left benches. from here a little more than an hour, we will vote in this Parliament an initiative of the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u31	These are the PCP proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u32	... to limit the payments of the managers of the General Deposit Box...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u33	No, no! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u34	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u35	He's lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u36	...and the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, which come to say that they want limits, will churn that same change.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u37	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u38	To conclude, Mr President, today I read an article from someone who said « some spread their legs » and « others join their kisses ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u39	Yes, and you shake your wings!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u40	Looking at the incoherence of the left benches, I only remember that child music: « Crazy, crazy, crazy chickens walk»! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u41	For a second speech, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u42	Mr. President, Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, there are chickens and there are chickens!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u43	V. Exa had cock!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u44	And there was a cock in the previous government, of which you were also part, called Sérgio Monteiro, who was Secretary of State! Mr Mota Soares puts it this way: « The current law requires an opinion from CRESAP and requires a hearing from the Assembly of the Republic ». It's true! But we had a Secretary of State who appointed an administrator for a regulatory entity without passing through CRESAP and without passing through the Assembly of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u45	You want to talk about this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u46	If you want, we can exchange chromiums! Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, Mr. Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro appointed an administrator without going to CRESAP and without passing through the Assembly of the Republic. Do you know what's happening now?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u47	You want to talk about this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u48	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u49	I will finish, Mr. President. It is happening that aviation companies will challenge the fines that this board of directors has decided, fines worth half a million euros!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u50	You want to talk about this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u51	You see what cock we're talking about? Oh, my God! I think Mr. Pedro Mota Soares should propose to Mr. Former Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro a medal to defend the public interest! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u52	Mrs. Members, we will proceed to the assessment of Decree-Law No 41 / 2016 of 1 August — in the use of the legislative authorization granted by Article 131. Article 140 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) o and by Articles 148. a 150. o, 156. o, 166. o is 169. that of Law No 7 -A / 2016 of 30 March, amends the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons, the Tax Code on Added Value, the VAT regime in intra-Community transactions, the Decree-Law No 185 / 86 of 14 July, the Code of Seal Tax, the Code of Municipal Tax on Property and the Code of Single Circulation Tax[ Parliamentary Assessments 19 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PSD ), 20 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) and 21 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) ( BE) ]. First of all, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal, in 2016, grows less than in 2015. Portugal is growing half of what the government predicted six months ago. Portugal grows less than the euro area average. Not satisfied with this reality, what does the government do? It throws enormous fiscal instability on the family and on the economy. Let's see what the press says: ‘Hundred opens the door to rise in the taxes of petrol, cars and credit’; ‘Progressive tax increases IMI in 2017’; ‘New property tax may make double the seal tax’; ‘For the CFP, heritage includes buildings and shares’; ‘Middle class IRS can increase by the next year’ ; « For PS and government, the sun when it is born is for everyone, but there are those who will pay more for it» ; « Solar view and exposure can cause IMI to rise». This instability, Mr. President, proves that even the wise words of Prof. Teodora Cardoso,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u54	What an inspiration!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u55	...saying that changing taxes every six months takes confidence, it makes you think about what they're doing, soon savings and investment fall, the economy doesn't start.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u56	Take a good look at Delphi's oracle.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u57	In view of this, Mr President, we all find it difficult to know what is the increase in taxes we are currently considering, such is the confusion. in the summer, in hiding, during the European Football Championship, the government approved an increase of IMI (municipal property tax) for all families — I repeat, for all families — and worsened by 300 % the solar exposure factor and the landscape. The government has not changed all weighters of the same value: those who fall down decrease half of what others increase. This proves one thing: the government only wants to collect revenue. It's a shame! It is a foolish, unfair decision that we want to revoke. We want to put the regime in place again. Those who hide behind the government will have to speak and vote today if they want this unjust rule to come into force. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u58	Mr João Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To understand a little what is at stake with this Decree-Law, we do not even need to quote its title, just mention its designation. We are talking about Decree-Law No 41 / 2016 of 1 August. [[Rice from PCP MEP Rita Rat.]] We ask ourselves: a decree of August 1 will pour on what? Will it be on irrelevant matters, on the laughter of Mrs Rita Rato or on other gender issues?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u60	You do this so many times!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u61	Don't! It covers nothing less than an increase of 300 % in a tax which also affects all Portuguese citizens. This is no less than a coefficient which was relatively reduced from 0, 5 % to 20 %. That is, if the owner of 1. the right floor pays a certain value of IMI, the owner of 1. the left floor can pay 20 % more, because your house is turned to the opposite side of the other floor. It is a substantial change in value and substantial change in discretion. And it is not by chance that this criterion currently has such a low value. It has a low value because it is discretionary and discretionary, from a fiscal point of view, cannot have the amplitude that is now introduced, for a matter of justice and equity. But this Decree-Law has greater perversities. If the issue of IMI has already been discussed and is obviously unfair, the question of IUC (the single circulation tax) is much more serious. What happens with the introduction of a limitation to the exemption of IUC for people with disabilities is a totally incomprehensible social insensitivity. Subjecting people with disabilities to have a certain level of CO2 emissions on their cars in order to continue to be exempted is a totally unacceptable social insensitivity. What is at stake is not the disability of the person, the level of disability, the percentage of disability. Don't! What is at stake is whether the car pollutes more or less, as if people who already have difficulty suffering from this exceptional circumstance — or their families — should now have to worry about the level of CO2 emission of their car in order to remain free of IUC. It's a shame! in recent days, the parties that support the government have tried to put the PSD and the CDS in a completely irrelevant fiscal discussion at present. This question of the possible rate for certain types of buildings, as already noted, has to be much discussed among the parties of the majority before they need to be discussed with us. Therefore, it is not worth wanting to put the CDS to discuss any taxes on those who have the most, because we will continue to discuss what you did last summer, which was to increase taxes on those who have the least ones, those who have disabilities and who now have to worry about the CO2 emission of your cars, those who—a chance of trouble! — live on 1st. the left floor, because when they bought the house the 1st. The right was already sold! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this discretionary and this brutal increase in taxes is for all and for all is unfair. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u62	Mr Jorge Falcato has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Decree-Law, which concerns the amendments introduced to the collection of the single circulation tax, is revealing the lack of knowledge in general of the reality of the life of people with disabilities and their families. It is a demonstration of the need to consult people with disabilities and their organisations when legislation on matters that concern them. In fact, this is a recommendation contained in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities that Portugal is a signatory. The reality is, for example, a young man who has a monthly income of €400 for him and his companion and who bought a truck with money borrowed by the parents. If this Decree-Law were not changed, this couple would have to pay €400 of IUC, funds impossible to arrange for who has an income in which nothing remains at the end of the month. This young person would be left without the only means of transport he could use in the region where he lives. Also a family of seven people — two of them with motor disabilities and who had to buy a van with suitable features for the transport of two electric wheelchairs — would pay 300 € of IUC. These people did not buy vans for any other reason than to meet their needs and based on the principle that the Portuguese State would not break the confidence that citizens have in the commitments that the State takes with them. These people should not be charged with a decision they made years ago without imagining that the rules would be changed. from the analysis that we made of existing cars on the market, we concluded by the existence of a large supply of cars with characteristics suitable for the transport of wheelchairs that correspond to the parameters established in this Decree-Law and that actually have CO2 emissions below 180 grams. Mr President, that is not what raises any problem. The problem is in the vans, because some models exceed the exemption standard introduced by this Decree-Law. We don't defend the blessing of buying luxury cars just because someone has a disability. We defend the need for people to have access to cars that are suitable for their disability. We therefore propose that the exemption quota be increased to €250 and that the restrictions introduced apply only to vehicles purchased after the entry into force of this Decree-Law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u64	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: on this summer, with regard to amendments to the IMI Code, the PSD and the CDS have again succumbed to purer demagogy and populism. Seconded in the media by the advance of the custom, they strongly criticized the government which, supported by the parties on its left, would have allegedly decided—it is no wonder! — to tax the sun and the sights. Now they shouted, "Even the sun pays taxes! » ; any day, efabulam « until the air we breathe will be taxed! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” In support of the truth and seriousness of the political debate, it must be remembered that it was a government of the PSD and the CDS that in 2003 introduced in the IMI Code the coefficient of quality and comfort.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u66	After all! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u67	This coefficient includes elements such as location, construction quality and the existence of leisure equipment such as swimming pools or tennis courts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u68	Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u69	... influence the tax heritage value and consequently the value of the IMI to be paid. If the PSD and CDS want, with regard to the coefficient of quality and comfort, to speak in taxation of the sun and the views, then they must make a meaculpa and assume that they have introduced these elements into the IMI Code...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u70	After all! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u71	... and must also recognize that it was a PSD and CDS government that recently carried out an update of the property heritage values that resulted in a brutal increase in IMI and that elements such as solar exposure, location or views were used, such as now so hypocritically critical. If the sun or views are taxed, then there is no doubt that this is the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u72	Increases by 0, 5 %, to 20 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u73	As for the PCP, our positions in defense of the IMI breakdown are known. Again recently, in the State Budget for 2016, the CFP proposed the reduction of the maximum rate of the IMI, which was approved and which will translate into a reduction of the IMI for many families, proposed this which the PSD and the CDS continuously rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u74	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u75	With the contribution of the CFP, a safeguard clause was introduced to avoid sudden increases in the IMI. We also defend the extension of the IMI exemption to low-income family aggregates, and it is precisely because we defend a fairer IMI, which degrades taxation on low-income families and low-tax buildings while at the same time paying more appropriately to large real estate owners and luxury buildings that, in the context of these parliamentary assessments, we will present a proposal that the 20% increase in location and operationality related only apply to real estates of more than €250 000. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u76	I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves to give information to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the Decree-Law under consideration, have put into the Bureau proposals for amendments submitted by the Block of the Left, which fall to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u78	For an intervention, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has some difficulty in understanding the parliamentary views of the PSD and the CDS, especially because of the diletious indignation of these two parties. In fact, there is undoubtedly a change in the location and operationality coefficients proposed by this Decree-Law, but these coefficients, such weighting already existed, and there was by the hand of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u80	Well remembered! [[PSD and CDS-PP Member Protests João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u81	Despite this being an autonomous tax—so, it is important to realize that in 2013 and 2014, automatically, and not at the initiative of any taxpayer, the PSD/CDS government has raised to the municipalities about 500 % to 600 % more revenue due to this change and automatic evaluation for all buildings, and at that time I have no news of any indignation. I must say that I sought, looked for, looked for and showed no indignation on the part of the PSD, nor on the part of the CDS on any effect of the sun view, the sea view or any weighter that had been introduced at that time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the Socialist Party Government now wants to put on the table is a differentiation so that this assessment is more accurate and fairer, so that in fact we are approaching the value of the commercial value. And we know how difficult and different this is for many families who make this differentiation even in the same building, choosing — Mr. João Almeida, let me say — 1. the floor and not the last, precisely because it's cheaper. In this case, this assessment is necessarily a zero change in the tax revenue for the State, unless the Authority or the taxpayer takes initiatives. However, at the 2016 State Budget, we did not see so much concern with citizens when the government proposed a maximum rate of 0, 45 % for the IMI. at that time, the PSD and the CDS did not manifest themselves—in fact, the PSD abstained and the CDS, although it did not abstain in this case in particular, it abstained as to the reintroduction of the safeguard clause. They have therefore been well apart from each other, preventing there from being a crowd for all citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This is no longer to mention the expressed concern about the exemption from IMI for low income, in which also in this case PSD and CDS did not worry about helping that clause be reintroduced. Therefore, it is a very delightful concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u82	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u83	Allow me just one more second, Mr President. With regard to the single circulation tax, I also find the concerns expressed here incomprehensible, because what is at stake here is whether we want the support of the carrier with more than 60 % of the disability to actually be directed at the people who need it or for the payment of luxury vehicles. If we make a small approach to vehicles with CO2 emissions exceeding 180 grams per kilometre, we have a notion of Porsche, Maserati and Ferrari, but of very few vehicles purchased by disabled people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u84	Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary, Mr Pedro Alves, will give further information to the House. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is to inform that, with regard to the Decree-Law under consideration, he has also introduced to the Bureau a proposal for an amendment to the CFP initiative, which goes down to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u86	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think there is some truth in what Mr. João Almeida says when he talks in the summer because, in fact, it was not the summer Facebook posts on the issue of the IMI this initiative would never have existed. It will also be one of the first cases of direct transformation of Facebook post into a legislative initiative for Portuguese political science. What happened? What happened was that, at the first moment of confusion, a number of right-wing leaders were convinced that the government had introduced a new criterion. And they were very shocked by the nature of the criterion. However, it was quickly perceived that the criterion already stood in the law and had been applied, very peacefully, for three years, to almost all urban buildings in the country. But, as there was all this controversy, it was necessary to find something to justify it. And then it was the weight of the measure. And, Mr President, your mathematics is, at least, delirious in terms of the tax increases it provides there, but above all with this peculiarity: it is that re-evaluation, in this diploma, can be requested by municipalities and individuals, and the criterion increases both taxable value and lower taxable value. The municipalities rarely ask for reassessments. Therefore, if any effect this new weight of criterion has in relation to existing buildings, it is probably that of lowering taxation, insofar as revaluations will be generally requested by individuals and not by municipalities. with regard to the second question, which is the question of the IUC, first of all it should be said that the criterion of emissions, which is qualified as « shameful » by Mr, is and is applied peacefully to the same situations in the ISV (vehicle tax ). Therefore, it is not clear that it has been applied for four years by its government to the ISV and, suddenly, when transported to the IUC, is shameful. What's the matter? It is my concern that no scope of tax expenditure should be exempt from some rationality and that a citizen who buys a car, such as a Ferrari, a Bentley or a Maserati, only to cite three examples more or less unequivocally, has an exemption of IUC which represents a tax expense three or four times higher than that disabled citizen who buys a truck suitable for his needs. And it is precisely to avoid this disproportionateness that the ISV Code limits the exemption—and already limits the exemption—and precisely in the same sense if this exemption is introduced into the IUC. in our view, the limit that was set was sufficient to safeguard the special needs. Once we have accepted this principle, which we agree with, the Government does not see any objection to correct the limit so that other vehicles that it deserves to cover are covered. I recall, moreover, that in the same State budget that authorised this measure, the deduction for families with disabilities was increased by a value, in fact, which will correspond to a tax expenditure four or five times higher than that involved in this amendment to the IUC. Concreteing what he had just said, there must be rationality in these tax support. Finally, I would like to say, reading the parliamentary assessment of the Left Block, that there is one thing in which, in my view, the honourable Member is quite right, which is the question of the application of the law over time. That is, that, above all, with regard to imported vehicles and therefore in the same category of new vehicles, does not make sense that this tax applies to the already constituted situations and should only apply to vehicles purchased in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u88	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: with regard to the parliamentary review of the Left Block, we have already made proposals for amendments to correct what Mr. Secretary of State has also now acknowledged as plausible to improve, and we are available to work in the field of expertise in this regard. with regard to the parliamentary assessments presented either by the PSD, or by the CDS-PP there is not much more to say that it is not the hypocrisy of this debate today. The two parties that have made a brutal increase in the IMI and who have rejected the maintenance of a safeguard clause that guarantees people that the abuse they promoted was at least still contained within certain patamares, now come here to put a Robin dos Bosques cover and say that they want to save people from the increase of IMI they themselves have played. It is indeed an act of hypocrisy and, on our part, it does not deserve a serious debate, which would be necessary, on a tax that is indeed a tax that can be greatly improved. And it is curious how, in the face of all the amendments made by the Left Block, including measures aimed at defending the home of families themselves and permanent versus other situations of second, third and fourth dwellings, never on the side of the PSD or the CDS has been given an opening for serious debate. No, they prefer political chicana. This is in fact the « beach» where PSD and CDS like more than « catch sun». [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u90	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u91	Now, on our part, we do not give to this petition. And I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we deserved a better opposition in the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u92	Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves has the floor to make a few more announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u93	Mr. President and Mr. Members, it is to inform that, with regard to the Decree-Law under consideration, amendments tabled by the PS Parliamentary Groups and the CDS-PP have been submitted to the Bureau, which are down to 5. the Commission. The draft resolution No 473 / XIII was also included in the Bureau ( 2 ). ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Article 43. that of the Code of Municipal Property Tax approved by Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November in Article 12. the Decree-Law No 41 / 2016 of 1 August, which, in the use of the legislative authorization granted by Article 131. Article 140 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) o and by Articles 148. a 150. o, 156. o, 166. o is 169. the Law No. 7 -A / 2016, of 30 March, amends the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons, the Tax Code on Added Value, the VAT regime on intra-Community transactions, the Decree-Law No. 185 / 86 of 14 July, the Seal Tax Code, the Municipal Property Tax Code and the Single Circulation Tax Code ( PSD ). This draft resolution will be voted on today during the voting period.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u94	For a second speech, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I intervene first to bring justice to the authorship of this amendment which has been introduced, i.e. this table and these coefficients that have been introduced in the State Budget for 2007 by the Government of the Socialist Party of José Socrates.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u96	It was in 2003!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u97	This is to be heard, particularly by Mr Paulo Sá. It is a matter of doing justice to those who effectively have the merit or merit of having introduced this matter into Portuguese tax legislation. Secondly, I wanted to say the following: Mr. Secretary of State said that at some point it was necessary to arrange any little thing to fuel this controversy. Mr Secretary of State there, the government was very generous with the opposition because, in fact, an increase of 300 %, a coefficient of 0, 5 % to 20 % is any weight. So we appreciate this ability that has given us. Then I wanted to tell the Portuguese Communist Party that we have taken good note that the privileged Peniche, Seixal and Alcochete have nothing to regret about this brutal increase in the coefficient they will pay more, for the simple fact that they live in a place that has a view to the sea...!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u98	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u99	Therefore, it will be very useful to clarify the population of these councils itself. Finally, I would like to tell Mr. Secretary of State that there are many more Portuguese disabled people with cars over 10 or 20 years of age—and therefore with high CO2 emissions—than Portuguese with Maseratis or Ferraris. It is appropriate to have the notion of what the country is to then have a fair fiscal policy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u100	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to leave two notes. Firstly, the tax system must be objective and therefore comfort clauses must exist. If there is a pool, the owner of the house must pay more than if it does not exist. She's there, or she's not. Whoever introduced subjectivity was a government of the Socialist Party of José Socrates.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u103	But with a minimum weight. Now it is a new socialist government, with the support of the PCP and the Left Block, which increases subjectivity by 300 %. And why do you do it? It's not just for people to pay more; it's for everyone to pay more because they need the money. And they need money because they are desperate to pay for an irresponsible policy, which has spent on spending, and to pay for it they need more revenue. They're going to get money everywhere, either in the sun or in the landscape. And, yes, Mr. Paulo Sá, do not wonder if tomorrow, with your vote, the air we breathe is also being taxed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u104	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 166 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Defines a phased payment scheme for premiums due by higher education students and creates a special payment scheme by beneficiaries of social action grants by making the third amendment to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August ( PS ), 158 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Freeze the value of propines for the first, second and third cycles of higher studies ( BE), 159 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions ( BE ), 128 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines as the only consequence of failure to pay the tip the non-recognition of the academic act ( PCP ) and 298 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — It prohibits the increase in public higher education ( CFP ). To present the PS bill, Mr. João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, in the Assembly of the Republic, we discuss five bills dealing with important issues of higher education. The Socialist Party is pleased to see the debate in Parliament as an absolutely essential reality for the construction of future Portugal. Let us start by remembering what is one of the most significant commitments of the socialists: to extend the social base of higher education in our country. It is clear that the return of a state of normality to Portugal presupposes the resumption of a path of valorization and deepening of qualifications, particularly at the level of higher education, where our delay becomes more intense. The PS perceives higher education as a right of all citizens and here, in the Assembly of the Republic, we do not escape the discussion on the conditions of access and frequency of this level of education. We do so, from the outset, because we believe that a country must have the basic conditions in knowledge, science and culture to combat unemployment, precariousness and low wages, to the integrated and sustainable development of the economy and to Portugal's affirmation in this case in Europe and in the world. What the PS has done, throughout history, through education and higher education is a whole program, a whole vision of the country we want to build. For PS, qualifications are not, never, a cost, but an indispensable investment in the future. By not running away from the important discussion on the conditions of access and frequency in higher education, the PS Parliamentary Group was proposing, in the discussion of the State budget for 2016, the freezing of the maximum value of propines, as well as the proposal for the creation of a national regulation of fees and emoluments, whose basic study is expected to be known very soon. Today, the PS Parliamentary Group presents to this House a proposal establishing a mandatory universal mechanism for phased payment of propines. A seven-service payment mechanism, which does not exclude the possibility of each institution offering alternative payment conditions. A mechanism that softens the effort, sometimes so considerable, for which students and family aggregates are summoned in the act of payment of the tip. A mechanism, finally, which establishes another principle of the most elementary common sense, that of which those who receive the scholarship should not pay the tip before effectively receiving the support to which they are rightly entitled. Mr President, this proposal has not solved the many problems that students, especially the most deprived, face in higher education, but it allows to add a new degree of justice, also going to the meeting—it is important to remember—an old and old demand for the student association movement. Enlargement of the social base of higher education must be widely seen, not focusing solely on the discussion of the value of the prosins which the PS recognizes as excessive and one of the highest in Europe. It is important to ensure adequate and enhanced funding for school social action and also measures with another latitude, so that no student is left behind due to financial constraints. We therefore also welcome the remaining initiatives under discussion, the CFP and the Left Block, which seem very relevant to this discussion. With regard to proposals for freezing the value of propines in all study cycles and although of course we do not want any institution to increase the value of the propine, it would not be fair to force the stabilization of this provision in equal form and proportion in institutions that already apply the maximum allowed value in the law and in those that perhaps with some effort and social awareness have adopted a lower value in recent years. Nos 2. o is 3. the conferent study cycles of degree of Master and Doctor is an additional question, which is the absence of a maximum propine ceiling. But this fundamental and difficult-to-resolve problem, given the lack of resources available to the country, does not find a response horizon with these proposals either.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u106	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u107	On the other hand, in reference to the existence of an extraordinary mechanism for debt regularization in higher education and the lack of recognition of the academic act as the only consequence of the non-payment of the propine, the PS expresses openness to discuss these bills, although it points out the need to adjust the proposals at times and proportions that differ from those suggested.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u108	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u109	I will finish, Mr. President. The country's effort to qualify the new generations and to reduce social inequalities is a challenge that must mobilize everyone, in a growing and ongoing effort, of the Government to the institutions, of the Assembly of the Republic to the political forces and social movements. Mr President, to finish, whenever a student, whenever a young Portuguese is forced to leave higher education due to deprivation of resources, the country must be ashamed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u110	To present the draft laws of BE, Mr. Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that brings us here today is obviously important and the Left Block demonstrates the openness and importance it gives to these issues. And it is also here that the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Socialist Party bring to the discussion the subject of the tips, but not always for the best reasons. We look at the reality of public higher education in Portugal and we can highlight a clear and direct relationship between the decrease in the funding of public higher education in recent years and the increase in the value of the tips, whether in a bachelor's degree or in a doctor's degree. This relationship, which in fact questions the very reason for the existence of propines and the appearance of propines in the early 1990s, obliges us not only to think seriously about the problem of higher education financing but also about the problem of the debts that students are forced to contract to continue studying in higher education. The Left Block started this legislation with a very simple question addressed to all public higher education institutions in Portugal — universities and politics — which was the following: what is the weight of the tips in their budgets? by the answers of the institutions that answered us — and were more than half — we reached a frightening number: on average, the tips weigh 23 % in the budgets of these institutions, but the truth is that we have higher education institutions today where the weight of the propines reached, in previous years, values like 51 % and 53 %. We are now admitting that it is the students who pay more than half the costs of higher education, particularly the institutions where they study. The Left Block therefore brings two essential proposals to this House. The first proposal is to freeze the value of propines for 1. o, 2. o is 3. the cycles of higher studies, for two very simple reasons: first, if there is an opening to discuss a different policy of propines for the country and if this opening means obviously a reduction of the weight of propines in higher education, then the first step is exactly to freeze the absurd. And when we talk about 'freezing the absurd' we are admitting that the proposal of the Left Block will not even decrease the values that are practised today in masters and doctors in higher education, values of €10 000 and €15 000, but to admit that institutions cannot increase the absurdity, we are stagnating the absurdity. Another extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines gives the opportunity of students who have given up studying, who have been separated from higher education,... [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] ...to re-study and have a period of shortage for payment of this tip, which in fact, in the medium term, is a measure that helps the student, helps families and helps higher education institutions. The Left Block also wants to demonstrate here full openness for all parties to discuss all these positions, all these measures, in the field of expertise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u112	To present the draft laws of the PCP, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings to the debate a matter of utmost importance for public higher education students, mainly for those with a more fragile economic and social framework. It will certainly not be new to any of the Members. Members here present that the frequency costs of higher education are highly penalizing for students and their families and impose a social screening, preventing many of them from having access to this level of education or being forced to abandon it because of financial disability, making higher education more elitist, to which only a few students will have access. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u114	As is known, the economic and social crisis that has plagued the country has materialized a huge deterioration in the living conditions of the people, as well as a huge reduction in the available income of families. Students from these families find themselves in a situation of particular fragility when faced with the costs of higher education frequency, from propines to rates and emoluments, through the shortage of social support, which prevent them, not rarely, from continuing their studies. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u115	The successive amendments to the Basic Law on the Financing of Higher Education have led to a path that always leads to the disresponsibility of the State for one of its most important social functions, imputing the burden of expenditure to families and condemning the institutions of public higher education to chronic underfunding, thus grossly affecting the constitutional principle of the right to education and its highest levels of education, making the tips an obstacle to that desire. The tips never served for quality, as was justified when they were reintroduced, and they always provided funding needs of the institutions. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u116	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u117	So much so that today the revenue from the tips is used for current expenditure and represents about a fifth of the budget of the institutions of higher education. The PCP has always defended the extinction of the tips, as well as the full freeness of higher education in all cycles, in order to guarantee the right to access and to school success to all students. This runs counter to the measures of successive governments, particularly violent in the former PSD/CDS government, which used budgetary constraints as a justification to break free from the obligation of higher education of citizens and to promote the mercantilization of education. In the face of an economic and social framework of great fragility in which most Portuguese people live, as mentioned above, and not abdicating their position of principle, the CFP presented the two draft laws currently under discussion. With Bill No 128 / XIII ( 1. a ), contrary to what is currently in force, and how to protect families and students with the greatest economic weakness, in addition to allowing them to continue the studies, it is intended that the non-payment or delay in payment of the propine will have as the only consequence the non-recognition of the academic act, not penalizing the school course of these students, and that the act carried out automatically be recognised as soon as the payment of the propine is regularized. The fact that the 2016 State Budget has not been recorded the non-increase of propines compared to the previous year meant that the institutions have increased the propines with the consequences for all students. in draft law No 298 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), the CFP proposes not to increase the tip in public higher education for the school year 2017 / 2018, in order to avoid dropout due to economic difficulties in which many students and their families find themselves. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u118	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a set of bills on propines and their form of payment in higher education presented by the PS, the PCP and the BE, which, moreover, do recurrently, and the only difference is that this time, PCP and Block support the government and therefore already live well not with the extinction of the propines but only, and as Mr. Louis Monteiro said, with the freezing of the absurd.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u121	The issue is, in fact, recurrent, but the CDS forms its consistency of position whether or not it is in government. Therefore, in terms of freezing the value of propines, I recall that propines are one of the pillars of the financing of the system enshrined in the law. I also recall that the increase in the maximum value of propines 1. the cycle is indexed to inflation and therefore we are talking about increase in the house of 7 € per year — repeat, 7 € per year! — at a time when higher education institutions have public funding ceilings, which were contracted with the Ministry of Education in July, where they are captivated, i.e. cuts of EUR 50 million, when, at the same time, it is intended to reduce the precarious employment of teachers and where the number of graduates is to be increased, I ask whether this court makes sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u123	This is because we cannot, at the same time, reduce funding sources and increase quantity and quality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u125	More: if this measure is intended to increase the frequency of university education, the right instrument is the School Social Action, the scholarships, where there is room for improvement of scale, after the previous government had considerable gains of efficiency and process. That is where we help those who need the most, not without criteria, at the same time, to the detriment of the quality of the institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u126	All right! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u127	Moreover, the freezing of the proposal for the two. o is 3. the cycle conflicts with the autonomy of the institutions, such as the micromanagement attempt that the PS follows, by proposing the phase of payment of the propines in seven benefits. Why not in 5, 6 or 10? Most of the institutions already practice this same phase-up, so this proposal becomes outdated. Finally, and with regard to the proposals of the Bloc and the CFP which aim to avoid unforeseen situations of incapacity for payment of propines which prevent the frequency of the course or completion, we naturally recognize the existence of situations to be addressed. But we do not think that the proposed solutions, namely that I can complete a three-year course without paying the tips and then have another five years to regulate the debts,... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ... above all because higher education institutions will not have a way of looking for these values, nor will they have a way of being compensated unless the Block or the CFP understands — which is not written in their proposals — that the State is obliged to sacrifice the entities for this amount. It seems to us again that what makes sense is to use the School Social Action as part of the autonomy of universities, ensuring that local funds are set up to deal with these situations. I would like to end by taking advantage of all students placed in higher education, this year 43 000 — number that has risen since 2014 — and all the other students and their teachers the greatest successes this school year. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u128	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Given the beginning of the school year, and, as Mrs Ana Rita Bessa said, many students are now going to start their course in higher education, what is important to mention in this debate is what many families are just right now feeling at the expense of their children in order to be able to study. That is why, as many families are currently facing this difficulty, it is very appropriate for us to make this discussion in view of this reality. We are in a country that has these characteristics: it is from countries where families spend more on higher education. Interestingly, we are from countries, also at European level, which have the lowest average and minimum wages. If the honourable Member is to see the reality, for example, of Germany and to compare it with Portugal, she realizes that it is quite unusual, because the wages in Germany are much higher and students do not pay their bills. So when we say that we are against the tips, we are not inventing, we are not saying something that does not exist in the rest of the world, we are simply saying that education is a right, that the State wins with qualified people. The whole country wins with that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u130	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u131	... the economy gains from this and the state has a responsibility, which is to ensure education. But no. over the years, what have successive governments been doing? They were deresponsible to the state and putting this burden to a large extent on families, and this is a burden that families today have to confront. And Mrs Ana Rita Bessa says: "No problem! There is something miraculous called “School Social Action ”! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Therefore, anyone who needs to resort to School Social Action. This is to live fully in the world of the moon, because the honourable Member knows—and even knows, by the action of the previous government, that has diminished the universe of students with access to the School Social Action—that only the people, families and students who are at the threshold of poverty are able to have access to the School Social Action. Then what are we dealing with? With numerous students, families find it difficult to take on this task, to give up, to leave higher education and their dream of having a certain qualification. This is a wrong reality! The Greens assume they're against the propines. But it is not possible to eliminate the propines,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u132	...we want to say clearly that we follow the need to freeze the value of propines and work proposals to reduce, ultimately and progressively, to the end the cost of propines. I now leave this note: the tips were not created with the intention, it was said, to finance the institutions but, yes, to go to the law, to improve — but the State would not be irresponsible — the quality of higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u133	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u134	It's all wrong! We have denounced it at the time and what has happened was that the tips are financing higher education and that the educational establishments are completely dependent on the tips. This is totally wrong! The State must assume its responsibility and we must assume the education of higher education also as a right and something that the State needs. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u135	Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, whom we have now heard, reminded me of the Prime Minister when he spoke in plenary yesterday. The honourable Member also lives in another reality, because she has no idea what you've been saying. [[Protests from the PCP and the Deputy Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] You know why? It is that the number of pockets per year increased last year and previous years, and increased more than in the past. Mrs. Deputy, go study. You do well to understand the numbers and learn that reality is different. You're so wrong, Mrs. Deputy! [[Protests by BE, the PCP and the Deputy Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] The eligibility threshold has also increased to 800 €, Mrs. She's wrong! It may be very critical of the previous government, but at this point it has been praised by all. Go study the numbers, which does you good, not to say nonsense. [[Protests by BE, the PCP and the Deputy Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block, the PCP and the Socialist Party brought to debate three very timid proposals on higher education. There goes the time when the Left Block defended universal and free higher education so that everyone could access to what cannot just be a luxury. We were talking about putting an end to the tips, a new financing law, and we finally arrived here and, puf! , nothing, "the mountain has bet a mouse"! Next comes the PCP, which was even more ambitious in the past legislature, to propose a new financing law, a new Framework Law on Social Action School, a set of measures to put an end to the tips, but we arrived at the debate and nothing! We have proposals to model the payment, to model the penalties. I would like to ask you to try to find an institution in Portugal that does not already practice this type of management of the payment of propines. Just tell me one or, then, get a student that the universities have expelled because they have not paid the tips. Tell me one! [[Protests from the PCP and the Deputy Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] More: If there are students leaving higher education... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u137	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to keep quiet so that you can finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u138	If there are so many students leaving higher education, I ask: then why did your government end up with the Retomar programme? Why is that over? It was the program that paid people more to study. Answer me! Then we have the PS case. A few months ago, the PS defended propines / zero! They said: “We want tip / zero! » but now come here and, puf! , they want the tip paid for benefits. Tell me the name of a university, Mr. João Torres, that don't let students pay the benefits. Tell me a university or a polytechnic! Then we have the principals, the association leaders and students to say: « This is an intrusion in the autonomy of universities». In fact, students themselves and rectors say: “It’s loaded! We're puzzled! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Protests by BE, the PCP and the Deputy Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, now you have the pleasure to ask the Socialist Party, the PCP and the Block: what are you going to do today? Are you going to do what you did in the past about the number of students per class? They announce the number of the bread and circus — or just circus — because there is no bread — and they say: "Finally, the low initiative without a vote, because we are not going to vote for this". That is what happened to the number of students per class, in which they made a great propaganda and when they arrived here, once again, puf! That's what happened. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something that seems very relevant to me to mention and to which I ask for your help. It is because they are so concerned about students and about the conditions for funding universities, I make a proposal, which is even benemerita and very simple: they pay what they owe to universities and politicians. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u139	It is that EUR 50 million is late for the 35-hour charges. Pay for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u140	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u141	Mr President, I conclude by saying that there is a matter that is important for students to be able to study with quality and conditions are the scholarships of the School Social Action. Unfortunately, students have been used to scholarships for many years after 100 or 200 days, but this habit is over, because in recent years the scholarships have been paid in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u142	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u143	last year, on September 24, more than 4000 scholarships were paid to students—4518! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Today, in the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, there are 3200 scholarships analyzed and there is not one pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u144	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u145	Mr President, I conclude by saying only the following : Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do your job, don't get into college life. Pay what people owe, pay what students owe. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u146	Mrs. Members, having concluded the debate of the projects of lein.o 166, 158, 159, 128 and 298 / XIII, we move to the next item on the agenda, which consists of the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 93 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repeals the requalification scheme ( BE) and 74 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repeals the Legal Regime of Requalification of Workers in Public Functions ( PCP ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, today, we will translate this new parliamentary majority into justice for those who work, in recovery of rights for those who work. The previous government was particularly violent with public service workers, most likely because they guarantee public services and social services of the State and also because they want to attack the public service provided by the State, the social rights of workers, Portuguese and Portuguese. over the years when PSD and CDS were in government, the attacks on public service were many. The freezing of careers and wages, the withdrawal of holiday days, wage cuts and the increase in working hours were a reality. And, between 2010 and 2015, the actual average hourly profit of public servants decreased by almost 30 %. It was a brutal attack during the years of austerity promoted by the CDS and PSD. In three years, the State lost about 80 000 public servants, twice as much of what was required by the troika, and at the same time tried to replace these workers, because their work was needed and public services needed them, for those who were afraid of losing the unemployment allowance they were entitled to in any way. The previous government has done much for the destruction of public services, but on top of this, it has created a real regime of injustice, a real blackmail regime on civil servants called ironic and erroneously'requalification regime', which was indeed a means of dismissal. As the Constitutional Court prevented the PSD/CDS government from being able to fire public officials, they arranged this requalification regime, in which, arbitrarily— and the Ombudsman also said so, it is not the invention of the Left Block, when 600 workers from the Social Security Institute were sent to requalification without any legal basis—the worker, in his public service, does not know whether the next one will be chosen to go to requalification. And why are you going to requalify? It is certainly not because it is surplus because, if it were, it would not be replaced by any CIS (employment-inclusion contract) to the unemployed or the beneficiary of the RSI (social income of insertion) which is obliged to take up that job which should be taken over by a worker. And arbitrarily, these workers can be chosen for a regime of real social violence, in which if they have a recent contract they will even be fired, but if they have an old contract they see their salary to be reduced, only with a small part of their salary, 40 %, making it impossible for them to govern their lives, and so they end up terminating their contract. After what happened with requalification, especially for social security workers, we have to ask ourselves if those day care centres would be there, if they were home, if those children were to become workers so that they had become surpluses and the previous government had decided that they did not need them. That's not true! Public services need workers to provide quality services to people. People demand this, and we, as a political power, also demand this from public services and therefore we must recognize the rights of these workers and value them in their public service. This regime did not go through an injustice, it did not go through an error for the workers, it did not go through a disaster for the public services and, therefore, there is only one thing to do: to repeal this system of injustice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u148	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The revenue is not new, it is indeed very old — withdrawing functions from workers, imposing loss of rights and wages, psychologically pressing to force the so-called friendly terminations which they hypocritically call terminations by mutual agreement. It was exactly this that the PSD/CDS government imposed and that in just over a month, between June and July 2013, I literally wanted to hurry. The PSD/CDS Government, on the eve of August, wanted to issue a redundancies regime for public administration workers, such was the rush to fire public officials, degrade and privatize social services and functions of the State. The final example may well be Pedro Mota Soares, from the CDS, then Minister, here today present. As the Minister of the CDS sent about 700 workers, who were not surpluses, to the advance of dismissal, were essential for the operation of social security services. It has even come to the point of sending to requalification presidents of child and youth protection committees, members of multidisciplinary teams to support courts, disabled people and cancer patients. Mr. President and Mr. Members, between 2011 and 2015, left the Public Administration 78 000 workers and, if we go back to 2005, 100 000 workers left. But the previous government, PSD / CDS, found little and took the goal of firing 30,000 workers. We have no doubt that there are no more workers in public services, there are fewer workers, and it is necessary to ensure that a permanent job corresponds to an effective bond. The CFP has always rejected the said special mobility schemes of the authorship of the former PS Government and then the so-called PSD and CDS requalification regime. We defend a regime for valuing public employment, linkages, careers and remuneration to ensure public services that meet the needs of the people and fulfil the social functions of the State. It is not possible to remember this process without speaking of the script for the reform of the State of Dr. Paulo Portas and of what this perverted the social functions of the State enshrined in the Constitution. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is proof that it has been worth and is worth fighting. The workers have fought a lot against this measure for the last three years. In January 2014 and February 2015, we brought this same proposal to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic, the revocation of the requalification regime, and to date, twice the absolute majority of the PSD and the CDS rejected it. Today, we correct an injustice and take a step in the replacement of rights. for our part, we will be here to go further in valuing public employment, fighting for the end of defrosting careers, increasing wages, combating precariousness and defending jobs with rights. That's why we're here! [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u150	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On these initiatives presented by the Left Block and the CFP, which aim to eliminate the requalification regime of employees of the Public Administration, the PSD is interested in starting this debate by making it clear two aspects. First of all, naturally and calmly, the PSD assumes the authorship of the diploma of requalification of workers. And the PSD is convinced that this is also a fundamental instrument in the strategic management of human resources of the Public Administration, which has only and exclusively as an end to improving the performance of workers and thus achieving a more agile and effective response from citizens and companies who use the Public Administration. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u152	This was also intended by the PSD as part of its reform for administrative modernization. But, Mrs. Joana Mortagua, I would like to bring you to the story that you have revealed in the debate that you started and explain to you what social violence is. however, to explain what social violence is, I have to explain what the Socialist Party Government left the PSD in 2011. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u153	And the scenario is completely devastating in what you refer to, that is to the social violence of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u154	Did they fix or do worse? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u155	What the PSD found when it arrived to the government was a folder, with two separators, Mrs. Member : in a separator there were hundreds and hundreds of employees of the Public Administration who had no jobs and in the other separator we found identified the human resources needs in the various services of the Public Administration. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Question: What was needed for the Socialist Party to do in a responsible attitude? The Socialist Party should have made the right adjustment. The Socialist Party should have analyzed what is the offer of available workers and what are the human resources needed for the country in the Public Administration. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u156	The Socialist Party should have carried out what it had promised: training actions, in order to enable these human resources available to respond to the services they needed. What did the PSD find, Mrs. Member? The PSD found these distressed and forgotten workers,... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ...without anything they've done for them. [[Protests of PS and PCP MEP Rita Rato.]] The truth, indeed, Mrs. Member, and I will remind you, is that this operation began with the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u157	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u158	Mr President, let me just finish this idea because I am not reading a speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u159	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u160	Madam Member, what happened was that special mobility was initiated precisely by the Government of the Socialist Party and the PSD had to give it a way out, and it did so motivating the workers and responding to the services they needed. Let me tell you, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u161	Madam Member, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u162	I'm done, yes, Mr. President. Madam Member, we have classified this attitude of the Left Block and of the PCP as another radical, foolish and opportunistic attitude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u163	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u164	Mr President, I would like to say, in conclusion, that VV. They are not respecting neither the Government nor social dialogue, because there are meetings between the Government and the representatives of the workers at the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u165	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u166	It's VV. They are not respecting the time of social dialogue. Thank you very much, Mr President, and I thank you for your time. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u167	Mr Luís Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by greeting the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block for bringing these two legislative initiatives to this House. I would like to welcome them because these initiatives allow us to delineate what has been the last four years of governance of the PSD and the CDS and the last nine months of governance of the Socialist Party: the last four years have indeed been marked by a clear attack on the Public Administration, public officials and services provided by the State to the citizens and the last nine months have been precisely the opposite. It was four years with clear examples of cuts in wages; four years of unilateral decision to increase the working hours of civil servants; four years of an unfair legal regime of requalification. in these nine months, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, it has already been possible to correct past errors in working hours, based on an acquired right of civil servants and also gradually acquired rights in wages, but also in terms of requalification. What we are doing today is actually formally ending up with an unfair legal regime of requalification. I say 'formal' because, informally, the government, since the first day it took possession, has also done work, has done so to end this regime. Thus we understand the work that has also been carried out in the relocation of employees of the Social Security Institute. And it is not a relocation by the circumstances of being satisfying an individual interest of the workers! No, the relocation is essentially due to the circumstances of those workers being necessary, especially at the time when the social situation in the country was dangerous. Mrs. Carla Barros said everything here: the PSD had to give the employees a way out, and she pointed them to the street door. That was requalification, it was a regime that pointed the street door to public officials! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would also like to say, in conclusion, that the Socialist Party, as a progressive and humanist party, has always argued that the problem of public administration was not that of civil servants. on the contrary, an efficient and efficient public administration needs motivated and valued public servants. What you have not done is what we are doing in these nine months: to restore the dignity of civil servants to a public administration at the service of the citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u169	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What brings us here today is worth the greatest attention. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are facing almost a miracle, a « touch of Midas », a ability to transform into roses « the bread that the devil has massed ». [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] In a short time, the Government and this left plan to make an extraordinary event: the announcement of the end of the requalification regime. People wonder, then, will the termination regime by mutual agreement in the Public Administration really end? No, it is certain that the termination regime by mutual agreement in the Public Administration will not end. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u171	What will end is the name, and the government, however, has chosen another one. The requalification regime is over and the Vocational Valuation regime is created. That's why the left runs. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u172	You don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u173	Invoking God and the Devil, he says to run for people, for justice, for the vulnerable! But after all, run by vocabulary, language domain! In short, a rebranding agency, as you now say!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u175	Here is also the consistency of the Left Block and the PCP, before cocks prodded today—as the leader of the PCP Parliamentary Group himself says — some chickens with the legs to give!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u176	Stupid chickens!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u177	For the sake of justice and intellectual clarity, it is said and reaffirmed that no one has been fired under the requalification regime. The workers who had access to this scheme joined a retraining program, gained new skills, had vocational training and some decided to... [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u178	You have to piss higher than you can't hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u179	...rescind by mutual agreement, others continued in the Public Administration, but none were dismissed. It would be important to at least safeguard the acquired rights of workers who have acceded to this scheme. What will happen to workers who, however, have voluntarily acceded to the regime, and who have the expectation of disengagement from the Public Administration with the compensation provided for in the law? The answer, according to the proposals that are under discussion, seems to be the loss of what they legitimately expect. And here it must be said: “Don’t cut everything! », even when you just want to cut the name! It is undeniable, even from those who contest it, that the regime in question has good things. In fact, it is enough to read the press: « Lisboa led terminations by mutual agreement in the authorities. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u180	It was Prime Minister António Costa, as President of the City Council of Lisbon, who led the withdrawals by mutual agreement in the Portuguese authorities! Don't worry about it! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u181	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u182	I shall conclude, Mr President. So the Portuguese ask: don't cut everything and take advantage of yourself as much as possible. Otherwise, the extraordinary miracle of reinvented words becomes thorny for many, who, in good faith, trusted the Portuguese State. May the Holy Queen, who exchanged bread for roses, be an inspiration to the majority. But VV. Ex. For now, they only reach the thorns. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u183	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Soares, available for the purpose of 13 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u184	Mr President, hearing the PSD invoke the Devil is no longer strange to me. But the Christian Democrats, so advocates of the doctrine of the Church, come here to bring the Devil is that it is something of the other world. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Finally, Mr President, there was no employee dismissed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Ladies and gentlemen, they have referred us to the fact that they have to terminate by mutual agreement, because otherwise the last path was even the dismissal. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u185	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u186	I shall conclude, Mr President. The great difference between a progressive party and another that is said to be humanist is that we do not push anyone and we will not impose wage cuts, nor push anyone for dismissal, contrary to what you have done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u187	For the last intervention, and thus closing the debate, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With great sincerity, I did not have the illusion that the CDS and the PSD would come to apologize to public officials, because what they did, they did - with deliberate intent, which was to fire public officials. We didn't get the illusion of hearing that from the CDS. [[PCP applause.]] But, Mr President, I also tell you, very frankly, that I was not expecting to hear you call your benchman Devil, who made social security workers eat « the bread that the devil has heaped up», because that is indeed unacceptable. [[PCP applause.]] I invite you to turn around and ask your banking colleague, then Minister of the CDS, whether cancer patients, disabled people, child protection committee chairs and young people at risk, social security members who joined multidisciplinary court support teams were surpluses and there was no need for them. Mr President, on our part we know that there are no more public officials, there are less public officials, because what is envisaged in the Constitution, as regards the social functions of the State, the existence of a public school of quality, universal social security and solidarity, a National Health Service, requires public officials and, therefore, we will be here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u189	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u190	I shall conclude, Mr President. Today, there is a fundamental decision to respect the struggle of workers. It was not a miracle, it was the struggle of the workers who today, with another correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, forced us to revoke the unacceptable regime and, on the part of the CFP, to start a path of valuing work and workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u191	Mrs. Members, completed the discussion of the projects of lein. 93 and 74 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) we will move to the next point of our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 289 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Clarify fiscal neutrality in non-conventional therapies through the first amendment to Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August, the basic framework for non-conventional therapies, and Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September, which regulates Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August, in respect of the professional exercise of non-conventional therapeutic activities ( PSD ), 252 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Includes non-conventional therapies in the Health Bases Act, making the third amendment to Law No. 48 / 90 of 24 August, with amendments introduced by Law No. 27 / 2002 of 8 November, which reinforces the correct interpretation of Law No. 45 / 2003 of 22 August, and Law No. 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( PAN ), 293 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the VAT Code with a view to exempting the provision of services performed in the field of non-conventional therapies ( CDS-PP ) and 301 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Exempt from VAT the provision of services in the exercise of non-conventional therapeutic professions recognized by Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( BE ), together with draft resolution No 465 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the nullity of the interpretation made by the Tax Authority in respect of the retroactive collection of VAT for the services of non-conventional therapies regulated by Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( CDS-PP ). To present the PSD initiative, Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The objective of the PSD on this initiative is to clarify tax neutrality (tax on value added) in non-conventional therapies. It is very expensive for the PSD to be fair and fair in tax treatment. For us, it doesn't make sense that some professionals are subject to VAT and others are not because of the practice of the same activity. We are sensitive to the problems of users and health professionals. The professionals of non-conventional therapies are not doctors, they are not paramedics, but they have to be treated with equity and justice, and the same is said of the users. This initiative arises at the appropriate time, because the PSD, in 2003, with Law No 45 / 2003, established the framework for the activity and exercise of professionals applying non-conventional therapies and, in 2013, with Law No 71 / 2013, regulated access to professions in the context of non-conventional therapies. Therefore, this path and clarification become feasible, because they improve the regulations already in force. Where non-conventional therapies are administered by doctors, the Tax Authority shall apply the exemption scheme resulting from Article 9 ( 1 ). the VAT code, which leads to a distortion of competition between services of an identical nature, impairing the free choice of patients and penalizing professionals of non-conventional non-medical therapies. As mentioned above, the legal framework for non-conventional therapies and the exercise of the professionals who apply them, established by Law No. 45/2003, recognizes them as health treatments, so, regardless of whether they are provided by doctors or professionals, they should be exempt from VAT in the same way as the other health services. In addition, the Competition Authority has issued a recommendation to the Ministers of Finance and Health to promote the regulation of the tax framework to which the provision of non-conventional therapy services is subject. It adds the Competition Authority :« Although before the entry into force of Law No 71 / 2013 it could be questioned whether the provision of TNC assistance services..., non-conventional therapies, «... offered a level of quality to users equivalent to what is offered by doctors, that law and the regulations adopted in 2014 and 2015, (...) created a framework that appears complete with regard to the professional qualifications of persons who are entitled to perform activities within the scope of the TNC. Do not keep on seeking. ” in these terms and in the face of the doubts and difficulties generated by this alleged new understanding of the Tax Authority, a legislative clarification is necessary, which is interpretative and not innovative in nature, since it is simply explaining the non-discriminatory will of the national legislator, which is determined by the principle of fiscal neutrality affirmed by European Community law and jurisprudence. We conclude and reiterate that the reference in the new Article 8. o -A of Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September, to paramedical professions serves only and exclusively for tax purposes within VAT, with no other effect or scope in this equation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u193	To present the NAP initiative, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current legislative framework, with regard to non-conventional therapies, has led to varied interpretations, as a result of the lack of regulation and clarity of certain standards. Access to these treatments by citizens and the exercise of the profession are limited by tax discrimination, since VAT rates are taxed which are not applied to their counterparts in conventional medicine. This is a cause that the NAP has defended since its genesis, having approved in 2015, mostly in the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, the creation of the Municipal Day of Natural Medicines. last year, we brought the issue back to the Assembly of the Republic with a proposal to amend the VAT Code precisely, but without success. We therefore want to continue to contribute to the elimination of the semi-dangerousness that still surrounds this activity. In order for fiscal fairness to exist, it is necessary to amend the Health Bases Act, which will ensure the neutrality of VAT as a fundamental principle, and to require equal tax treatment in similar activities, i.e. that they practice the same type of acts or services. Above all, we intend that the activity of professionals of non-conventional therapies, both in the preparation of diagnoses and in the application of treatments, produces tax effects identical to those of the exercise of conventional medical care, both in the legal sphere of those professionals and in their respective users. Medicines or therapies, conventional or non-conventional, constitute forms of citizens expressing their right to choose. in this area there are still prejudices and it is also up to the State to guarantee social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u195	To present the CDS-PP initiative, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The practice of non-conventional therapies was legally framed in 2003 and then regulated in 2013 during any of these periods, PSD / CDS governments. It was a long period of 10 years to regulate these professions and was, in our view, an essential step towards the safety of both users and professionals. however, the regulation of the profession was not unequivocal in relation to the tax framework of these professionals, and this led to the fact that, over the past 13 years, the same professional activity had a different framework at VAT level, according to the financial service in which the various professionals were enrolled, leading to the fact that they had to charge their customers and others not, but this was certainly not the spirit of the legislator. More recently, the Tax Authority has notified a number of professionals — in fact, it continues to do so — opening tax enforcement processes to various therapists who did not charge their customers VAT, not because they had fled to the tax but because the financial services where they were registered determined their inclusion in a VAT-free activity. On the other hand, for the practice of the same health acts, doctors who practice non-conventional therapies are exempt from VAT. Because this situation is unfair and discriminatory among professionals who practice the same health acts, because it also distorts competition, as stated by the Competition Authority on the subject of an exhibition by the Portuguese Association of Acupuncture Professionals, which recommended to the Government the correction of this discriminatory situation (in fact, the Competition Authority also said that "The analysis carried out by the AdC...", Competition Authority, "... did not allow to identify any public interest that would justify this distortion of competition. ), and still, because this would not have been the legislator's spirit, as I have already stated, the CDS presented a draft law that intends to regulate the tax framework of these non-conventional therapies in the VAT field, exempting them, and a draft resolution that aims to see corrected the retroactive collection of VAT to these professionals, thus requesting that the Tax Authority revise its interpretation, applying the principle of fiscal neutrality. Mr. President and Mr. Members, I recall that we are dealing with professionals who are accredited on the basis of requirements of the World Health Organization, who have training plans approved by the Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation of Higher Education and by the Directorate-General for Health, and who are recognized by the central administration of health services. This will therefore be a situation of the most basic fiscal justice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u197	To present the initiative of BE, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Non-conventional therapies are health activities. Yes, starting from a philosophical base other than the so-called "conventional medicine"; yes, they apply specific processes of diagnosis and therapeutics themselves; yes, they provide assistance in terms of healing pathologies, relieving symptoms and improving people's health status, so they are health activities. And we are not, the Left Block, that we say, is the World Health Organization, for example, when recognizing these activities, it is the Portuguese legislation that since 2003 recognizes non-conventional therapies, and it is not by chance that it places them under the protection of the Ministry of Health, are the users in Portugal, millions of Portuguese, who have already resorted to and resort regularly or will resort to non-conventional techniques and therapies, because they know that when they go, for example, to a osteopath or acupunctor, they are dealing with symptomatology and are improving their health. This is a health activity recognized, including by other health professionals, who, for example, already apply some of the techniques. There are public hospitals in Portugal where averages, nurses, orthopedists, for example, other health professionals, already recognize the validity of techniques, such as acupuncture and others, to treat pain and other pathologies, so they are health activities. The Left Block has always defended a tax treatment equal to other health activities, that the provision of service of these therapies should be exempt from VAT, and therefore the Left Block, including, submitted for several years and in several State budgets this proposal for the exemption of VAT.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u200	It happens that in the summer of 2015 the Tax Authority decided to have the following interpretation: these activities must pay VAT at normal rate and, moreover, compulsory and retroactive charge should be made to these professionals four years. This action, which began in 2015, has consequences: the failure of many of these professionals working in the field of non-conventional therapies; an incentive for sub-invoicing, tax evasion and non-declaration of activity opening, as everyone realizes, since, if you have to charge VAT, then you have to pay VAT, at 23 %, there is an incentive for you to escape the delivery of your own statement of start-up activity. Worse than this is the sending of all these practices and health activities again to the clandestine. And, it is said, the activity of these activities in the underground brings many problems, the first of which is the security to which they are used. In other words, the safety of users and users cannot be regulated, it is not possible to separate the wheat from the juicy. it is not possible to separate what is a true professional from another who may not have sufficient training in the area, and therefore it is also the safety of the users concerned. In conclusion, Mr. President, the Left Block presents a bill that goes in a two-way way: to recognise and guarantee VAT exemption for non-conventional therapies and to nullify all processes of retroactive collection, thus saving the activity of these professionals and, above all, safeguarding the safety of users. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u201	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens have long considered it necessary to work towards improving and clarifying the recognition of non-conventional therapies. This need comes not only from the importance that the sector represents for our economy, from its importance as regards prevention and treatment in health, but above all because it is necessary to create the conditions for citizens to respect freedom of choice when they opt for non-conventional therapies. It is therefore important to ensure that access to these therapies is carried out as safely as possible, but it is also important to remove the clear inequalities that occur today in terms of tax treatment. This differentiation between duly recognized and accredited non-conventional therapies and conventional therapies, in our view, makes no sense. It does not make sense that professionals of non-conventional therapies duly recognized are not exempt from VAT when other health professionals are exempt, even when they make use of these same treatments. As it is known, non-conventional therapy professionals are currently in the arms with serious problems that are mainly related to the application of VAT by the Tax Authority and this reading of the Tax Authority is creating many difficulties for these professionals, many of them living even under threat of bankruptcy with all the problems that this represents. As if not enough, these professionals still face the allocation of retroactive effects to the interpretation made by the Tax Authority. We therefore need a legislative clarification on this matter and I do not intend to make any value judgment here on the opportunity of the initiatives we are now discussing, since the State Budget for 2017 is at the door, we believe that the discussion of these proposals would also have a complete bearing on the discussion of the State budget. It is precisely because of this that the Greens have already expressed their intention to re-submit the three proposals on this subject in the State Budget for 2016. The first proposal aims to equate the non-conventional therapies recognized and accredited under the law to conventional therapies, an equalization for all purposes, and therefore also for tax purposes. The other two are proposed to amend the VAT Code in order, on the one hand, to place the therapeutic products used in non-conventional therapies at a rate of 6 % and, on the other hand, to exempt from VAT services carried out in the exercise of duly legalised professions at the level of non-conventional therapies. In conclusion, I just remember that the CDS-PP abstained from these proposals that The Greens presented in the State Budget for 2016, including our proposal that the CDS-PP now submits in its bill. We will therefore expect that in the next State budget the Greens' proposals on this subject will also have the CDS-PP vote, especially the proposal that corresponds to the one presented by the CDS-PP today, although it has abstained from the Budget presented last year. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u203	Mr Domingos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law of the NAP, the CDS, the Left Block and the PSD have in common the problem of VAT collection or not in the provision of services of professionals of non-conventional therapies. Of course, we recognize all the legitimacy of those who defend their exemption by combining non-conventional therapies with conventional medicine practices and other paramedical activities and those who advocate the application of the VAT rate to non-conventional therapies. There is a consensus on this: the need for clarification. But there is also another need: to deepen the discussion of the specificities of each area of the different methods used in the so-called « non-conventional therapies ». Law No. 45/2013 initiated an opening to the basic framework of non-conventional therapies and through it created great expectations for its professionals. But Law No. 71/2013 goes much further by regulating the exercise of the profession of non-conventional therapies, extending to its range by also introducing traditional Chinese medicine in the list of non-conventional therapies. However, its rules do not make any reference to VAT taxation nor to the equivalence of paramedical activities so that it can be unequivocally implemented to collect VAT at the exemption rate. On the other hand, the regulation of non-conventional therapeutic activities is not fully satisfied with the many technical and scientific requirements, particularly with regard to the creation of curricular plans in higher education establishments with the degree of graduation. Therefore, we understand the relevance of the question of exemption or not of VAT collection to non-conventional therapies, but we also recognize the need to be deepened by avoiding different interpretations such as that of the Tax Authority to charge VAT at the rate of 23 %, but on the other hand that of the Competition Authority to recommend non-recovery, i.e. its exemption. In view of these differences, we believe it is necessary that this dichotomy of yes or no to VAT collection for non-conventional therapies should be clarified in discussion in the specialty as to its exemption, but at the same time, while not forgetting the need for compliance with all its regulations, in particular the curricular plans provided in higher education establishments with a degree of graduation, in accordance with the law. in this perspective, we will be contributing to the solution of a problem that has not always been treated with the relevance that is necessary, the defense of all health professionals and the protection of their users, regardless of their choice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u205	For one last speech on this agenda item, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today several projects that aim to change the legal order governing non-conventional therapies. While it is certain that tax issues cannot be devalued, the CFP understands that tax reasons alone cannot change the legal regime. More: the issue that is raised in the various legislative initiatives under consideration cannot be removed from problems that persist in non-conventional therapies, from the outset to the failure to complete the regulatory process. The regulatory process, which we cannot fail to mention, has been stopped for 10 years by inaction and deresponsibility of successive governments, as happened with the previous Government, PSD / CDS, which passed its responsibility to the Assembly of the Republic and that the previous majority, PSD / CDS, did not want to resolve either. They did not deal with the tax framework and did not regulate the law as it was envisaged in the legislation, undermining the expectations of professionals and while protecting the absence of regulation in this area. Regulation is of utmost importance not only because it involves the practice of many professionals but, above all, because they use non-conventional therapies certainly hundreds of thousands of people, who have the right to see the quality and safety of interventions and treatments provided and prescribed by the State. And, above all, regulation must contribute to the dissipation and weakening of the numerous doubts that still persist about these therapies, as should include the forms of articulation with the National Health Service and with public services. As we stated in 2003 and 2013, the CFP considers that the problems that still persist are urgent and that at nothing contribute to the credibility of non-conventional therapies and the continuing doubts. from the CFP, we are available to discuss and analyse concrete proposals in the field of expertise, but we are alerted to the following fact: the Assembly of the Republic has fulfilled its role, which is necessary to regulate what has already been approved here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u207	Mrs Carla Cruz, a few years ago I gave the wrong information because she said it would be the last intervention when, in fact, we still have two Mrs. Members who subsequently signed up to intervene. You therefore have the floor to Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to point out that the CDS recognises the importance of better regulation of these therapies, but this cannot call into question the survival of non-conventional therapists who are currently in a tax recovery situation. Therefore, regardless of whether this issue will be resolved in the future, whether we are discussing this matter in the field of expertise and whether new legislative proposals may arise to conclude the regulation, this fiscal issue must be urgently resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u209	Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We agree that the debate on non-conventional therapies does not end in the fiscal issue. In fact, contrary to what the CFP says, the last two PSD/CDS governments dealt with these issues. In 2003, with Law No 45 / 2003, and in 2013 with Law No 71 / 2013. The Socialist Party is that it wants more debates on these issues,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u211	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u212	... but over the course of six or seven years that he was in the government, purely and simply did nothing, he left this matter to the abandonment, he left it to the free will of the institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u213	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u214	To finish...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u215	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u216	I'll be done. Mrs Carla Cruz, whom the CFP considers less tax fairness and justice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u218	... that the CFP considers that tax fairness and justice are not sufficiently strong and strengthened values for Portuguese society is that it seems very strange to us! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u219	Mrs. Members, having no further speakers inscribed, I give the discussion, in general, of the projects of lein. 289, 252 and 293 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 301 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), in conjunction with draft resolution No 465 / XIII ( 2. ( a). I note that they are included in the agenda for registration and vote but, as you know, without time for debate, the motions for resolutions Nos 3 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the withdrawal of the reservation under Article 10 ( g ). the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Organisation for the Exploration of Meteorological Satellites ( EUMETSAT ), adopted at Darmstadt on 1 December 1986, 15 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement for the Creation and Status of the European Public Law Organisation, signed in Athens on 27 October 2004, and 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approved Protocol No 12 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, open for signature in Rome on 4 November 2000. That's how it's done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic card. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records the presence of 215 Members, to whom the presence of the PCP Member Ana Virginia Pereira and of PS Hortense Martins, Miranda Calha and Wanda Guimarães, who have not been able to make their electronic registration but who will then be present with the services, making a total of 219 Members present, which means that we have quorum to proceed to the voting process. Let us then begin by voting No 126 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulating on the certification of elimination by the World Health Organization, the eradication of rubella and measles in Portugal ( PSD ). Mrs. Members, the wording of the title of this vote is somewhat strange — '(...) elimination(...) of eradication...'. Well, then you'll see the best way to write. I ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The National Health Service ( SNS ), which celebrates this year its 37. the anniversary has as a relevant aspect of its action, in the field of public health protection and, in particular, the prevention of diseases, the conduct of vaccination campaigns, especially in the cases of vaccines included in the National Vaccination Program ( PNV ). The PNV, existing in our country since 1965, is a universal and free program that has effectively protected citizens against diseases with the greatest potential to pose threats to public and individual health and for which there is effective protection by vaccination. Portugal currently has one of the best worldwide outcomes in terms of vaccination against diseases such as tuberculosis, diphtheria, tetanus, seizure cough, poliomyelitis, measles, papeira, rubella or, moreover, human papilloma virus infection. In 2012, a free influenza vaccination program was implemented for the population over 65 years of age. The World Health Organization ( WHO ), which has long considered the promotion of public health policies that include a free and safe vaccination against preventable diseases, has just certified the elimination in our country of rubella and measles, two of the main infectious diseases among children. in these terms, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the official certification, issued by the World Health Organization, the elimination of rubella and measles in Portugal, and expresses its recognition to the professionals of the National Health Service for all the work they have done in this field since the creation of the National Vaccination Program".
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u221	Mrs. Members, as expressed in the vote, are only « elimination ». The word ‘Eradicatement’, therefore, makes no mention of remaining in the title. The title of vote No 126 / XIII ( 2. a ), submitted by the PSD, will therefore be drafted as follows : « Congratulation for the certification of elimination, officialized by the World Health Organization, rubella and measles in Portugal ». We shall vote for the vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 128 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations on the consecration of the eradication of measles and rubella in Portugal ( PCP ), which will be read by the Secretary, Mrs Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The World Health Organization ( WHO ) officialized the elimination in Portugal of measles and rubella. In addition to these diseases, WHO has certified the eradication in our country of malaria, smallpox and poliomyelitis (child paralysis). There are still two more diseases that no longer circulate in Portugal: diphtheria (without transmission for about 30 years) and human anger. The results now disclosed are of course the result of the National Vaccination Program in Portugal, but are indelibly associated with the existence of the National Health Service. Indeed, the significant change in health indicators and the disappearance of these and other diseases was due to the conjugation of these two vectors and the changes in the living conditions of the people. The National Vaccination Programme — universal and free of charge — which was last updated in June 2015 to include a new vaccine in compliance with a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, needs to be improved and deepened. Portugal must continue to strengthen the National Health Service, the National Vaccination Program and public health policies. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the recognition by the World Health Organization of the elimination of rubella and measles in Portugal and praises the work carried out by the professionals of the National Health Service, which is crucial for the improvement of the health indicators of Portuguese and for the eradication of diseases».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u223	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on that vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 130 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — From greeting the Portuguese Missions to the Rio 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games ( AR President, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ), which will be read by the Secretary, Mrs. Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « At the end of the Olympic and Paralympic cycles, it is worth the public recognition to the Portuguese Missions at the Rio 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games, for having honored and dignified the Portuguese sport at the highest level. The Olympic and Paralympic Games are the world's sporting events par excellence, constituting golden moments of our athletes' sports careers. in Rio, the Portuguese athletes knew once again to be more faithful to the values of excellence, friendship and respect and also the courage, determination, inspiration and equality: the values that govern the Olympic and Paralympic movements. In addition to the commitment and brillion that all athletes have put in their performances, the five bronze medals and the thirty-five diplomas obtained by national missions deserve special attention. The Telma Monteiro athlete, in judo (- 57 kg), won the only Olympic medal, deserved a fair word of recognition and gratitude for the perseverance and claw that he instilled in his performance. Paralympic athlete Luís Gonçalves won the bronze medal in 400 meters, class T12 (visually impaired), reaching a new personal brand. Manuel Mendes arrived at the fourth bronze medal in the Paralympics, on the T46 marathon. Still in individual terms, José Carlos Macedo, in the BC3 shell, secured the third place on the podium and, in collective terms, the BC1 - BC2 team consisting of Abilio Valente, António Marques, Cristina Gonçalves and Fernando Ferreira reached 90. the medal for Portugal at Paralympic Games, when hitting Argentina by 6 - 2. Medals and diplomas that fill us with pride, although this is only a facet of national participation in these important events: it is the example given that it perpetuates the name of Portugal at the Olympic and Paralympic Games. Because with the commitment, dedication and the capacity to overcome which everyone recognizes them, national athletes gave their body to sports excellence. At this level, these were of the best results ever, which deserves a very positive highlight, being a sign of hope for national sport. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, is associated with the participation of the Portuguese Missions in the Rio 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games, welcoming the athletes, technical teams and the Olympic and Paralympic committees of Portugal for the results that dignified and prestigious the Country».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u225	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 468 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Cuba, Cartagena and Brasília ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 28 / XIII ( 2 ). (a) — Authorizes the Government to adopt the new legal regime on the installation and operation of seawater farming establishments, including transitional and inland waters. [[When put to the vote, the votes against BE and the NAP and the abstentions from the PS, the CDS-PP and the Greens were adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CFP.]] Mrs. Members, the bill goes down to 7. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 29 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the general principles and rules relating to the organisation of public tender procedures for the award by contract of concessions intended exclusively for the exploitation of municipal networks for the distribution of low voltage electricity. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 469 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, which amends the Statute of the Public Manager, approved by Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March, as amended by Law No 64 -A / 2008 of 31 December, and Decree-Law No 8 / 2012 of 18 January ( PSD ) [ Parliamentary assessment No 17 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 470 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, which amends the Statute of the Public Manager, approved by Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March, as amended by Law No 64 -A / 2008 of 31 December, and Decree-Law No 8 / 2012 of 18 January ( CDS-PP ) [ Parliamentary assessment No 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) ]. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall vote on a request submitted by the PCP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, without voting, for a period of 30 days, of the projects of lein.o 250 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Confirms the intermodal social pass as a title in all collective passenger transport and updates the geographical scope of their crowns in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon ( CFP ) and 286 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrate the Andante, intermodal social pass of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, as a title in all collective passenger transports and update the geographical scope of the respective zone ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, since the application has been approved, the draft laws are lowered by that Commission. We proceeded to the vote on an application submitted by BE, also asking the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works to be discharged, without voting for a 30-day period of draft resolution No 467 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of an effective intermodal transport system in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution also lowers the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works. We will now vote together on the requests made by The Greens, BE and the CDS-PP for the fall to the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, without a vote for a period of 45 days, respectively from the projects of lein. 279 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Framework Law of independent administrative entities with functions for regulating the economic activity of private, public and cooperative sectors approved by Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ( The Greens ), 179 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Framework Law of Regulators, approved by Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August, and amends the Statute of the Public Manager, approved by Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March ( BE ), and 299 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ( Framework Law of Regulators ) ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Accordingly, the draft laws are brought down to the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 473 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Article 43. that of the Code of Municipal Property Tax approved by Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November in Article 12. the Decree-Law No 41 / 2016 of 1 August, which, in the use of the legislative authorization granted by Article 131. Article 140 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) o and by Articles 148. a 150. o, 156. o, 166. o is 169. that of Law No 7 -A / 2016 of 30 March, amends the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons, the Tax Code on Added Value, the VAT regime in intra-Community transactions, the Decree-Law No 185 / 86 of 14 July, the Code of Seal Tax, the Code of Municipal Tax on Property and the Code of Single Circulation Tax No 19 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u226	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u227	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u228	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to discuss the admissibility of this draft resolution submitted by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u229	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u230	Mr President, a parliamentary assessment can only give rise to two things: either to the cessation of the rule of law altogether or to the amendment proposals. The PSD proposes the termination of an article. Now, this is not a draft resolution for the cessation of work. We realize that the PSD's intention is to have something voted on today, but it cannot be. If they want to delete an article, they have to submit an amendment and it is discussed with the others in their committee. Two: either they want to cease the application of the entire Decree-Law or they want to submit a proposal for an amendment. This draft resolution is that it cannot be admitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u231	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u232	You have the floor, Mr. Antonio Leitão Amaro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u233	Mr President, I thank Mr. João Oliveira for his request to the Bureau, but I would say that it is clearly necessary to apply and apply the basic rule of legal interpretation: who can the least. If an entire diploma can be put to an end, it must be possible to cease the validity of its part. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] It is a basic rule, it is a basic parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u234	Who can the most can be the least!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u235	That's right! Whoever can the least is a basic rule of legal interpretation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u236	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to let me hear the plea.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u237	Mr. President, if the Bureau has any doubts...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u238	Here!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u239	... on the interpretation and, if possible, to follow this reading and this vision of Mr. João Oliveira, of which we disagree, we ask the Bureau to vote on the draft resolution as a cessation of the whole diploma. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u240	By the way, because this diploma also closes formal unconstitutionalities, the PSD announces that if the left-wings come together to maintain the IMI « of the sun and the views », we will request the successive supervision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u241	Therefore, the concrete question raised in the appeal was resolved by the alternative which Mr Leitão Amaro, of the PSD, constructively gave, in the sense that the end of the term of office should be related to the whole of the diploma, and that will be the way this vote will be understood. Let us then vote on draft resolution No 473 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), requesting the assignment of the full application of Decree-Law No 41 / 2016 of 1 August. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We will now vote on an application submitted by the PS, requesting the resignation of the Education and Science Commission without a 60-day vote of Bill No 166 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defines a phased payment scheme for premiums payable by higher education students and creates a special payment scheme by beneficiaries of social action grants, making the third amendment to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 158 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Freeze the value of propines for the first, second and third cycles of higher education ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote for a request by BE, requesting the discharge to the Education and Science Committee, without voting for a period of 30 days, of Bill No 159 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceeded to the vote on an application submitted by the CFP, asking the Education and Science Committee to be discharged without a 30-day vote of Bill No 128 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines as the only consequence of the failure to comply with the payment of the tip the non-recognition of the academic act ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 298/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — It prohibits the increase in public higher education ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We will now vote in general on Bill No. 93 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revok the requalification scheme ( BE). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 74 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repeals the Legal Regime of Requalification of Workers in Public Functions ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 289 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Clarify fiscal neutrality in non-conventional therapies through the first amendment to Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August, the basic framework for non-conventional therapies, and Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September, which regulates Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August, in respect of the professional exercise of non-conventional therapeutic application activities ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS, BE and the CFP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 252 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Includes non-conventional therapies in the Health Bases Act, making the third amendment to Law No 48 / 90 of 24 August, with amendments introduced by Law No 27 / 2002 of 8 November 2002 which reinforces the correct interpretation of Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August, and Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( PAN ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CFP, votes for BE, the CDS-PP and the NAP and abstentions for the PS and the Greens.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 293 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the VAT Code with a view to exempting the provision of services performed in the exercise of professions under non-conventional therapies ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and the CFP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 301 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Exempt from VAT the provision of services in the exercise of non-conventional therapeutic professions recognised by Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and the CFP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall vote on draft resolution No 465 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the nullity of the interpretation made by the Tax Authority in respect of the retroactive collection of VAT for the services of non-conventional therapies regulated by Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u242	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u243	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u244	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on these last votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u245	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on motion for a resolution No 15 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement for the Creation and Status of the European Public Law Organisation, signed in Athens on 27 October 2004. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approved Protocol No 12 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, open for signature in Rome on 4 November 2000. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we have two reports and opinions from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees to appreciate and vote. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u246	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Comarca de Setúbal, Central Court, Section Cable—Judge 1 — Case No 7041 / 10.8TBSTB, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Eurídice Pereira ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u247	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u248	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Office of Sintra, Organic Unit 3, Case No 1672 / 15.7BESNT, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize the Member of Parliament Edite Estrela ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-23.u249	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] Since there are no requests for a word, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday 28, from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m. on the following agenda: urgent debate required by the PSD on investment collection and economic growth ; review of Decree No 31/ XIII — The first amendment is made to the Statutes of the Public Transport Society of Porto, SA, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 202 / 94 of 23 July, and to the eighth amendment to Decree-Law No 394 -A / 98 of 15 December, amending the bases for the concession of the light metro system of the port and the Statutes of the Port Metro, SA ; and joint debate of the proposal for law No 30 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System adopted by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August and to Bill No 274 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 49 / 2014 of 27 March Regulation No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System ), and establishes the regime applicable to the organization and operation of judicial courts ( PCP ), in general with draft resolution No 460 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of priorities for reforming the new judicial map ( BE ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 49 minutes.]]
