ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries. Before we begin the work, the agenda of which has as its sole point the debate of interpellation No 1 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — On the sustainability of social security and the use of the Financial Stability Fund ( PSD ), the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, will proceed with the reading of the dossier. It will be a tough mission, but to which Mr. Secretary will carry out the usual proficiency. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the following bills: paragraphs 185 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensure universal access and broadcast of all public television service channels via Digital Terrestrial Television ( TDT ) ( PCP ), 186 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repeals the adaptability and hourly bank mechanisms in group and by collective regulation, making the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 187 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Revokes the application to public servants of the adaptability and hour bank mechanisms by amending Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Law on Public Works ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 188 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Alter to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ( Citizens'Legislative Initiative ), simplifying the procedures and requirements laid down therein ( CDS-PP ), 189 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the IRS Code in order to restore the family quota ( CDS-PP ), 190 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Benefits within IRC to companies that promote family responsible behaviour ( CDS-PP ), 191 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code by strengthening the legal protection of prohibited or disabled heirs ( CDS-PP ), 192 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code by establishing the supplementary application of the separation property regime ( CDS-PP ), 193 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 176 / 2003 of 2 August, amended and republished by Decree-Law No 133 / 2012 of 27 June, amends the disability subsidy in the family allowance ( CDS-PP ), 194 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, extending the enjoyment of the supplementary parental leave and the leave for assistance to grandparents ( CDS-PP ), 195 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code amends the exclusive parental leave of the father ( CDS-PP ), 196 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which increases the duration of the initial parental leave from the third child ( CDS-PP ), 197 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — First amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which establishes the prenatal parental leave ( CDS-PP ), 198 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which increases the duration of the initial parental leave for 210 days ( CDS-PP ), 199 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The tenth amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which establishes the allowance for child assistance in place of the allowance for breastfeeding or breastfeeding ( CDS-PP ), 200 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of the scope of the social valleys ( CDS-PP ), 201 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 amends the amounts of parental allowances and creates prenatal parental allowance and parental allowance for premature birth ( CDS-PP ), 202 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CDS-PP ), 203 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Bans payments to non-cooperating offshore entities ( BE ), which fall to 5. the Commission, 204 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Defines the concept of effective beneficiary for the purposes of the IRC Code ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 205 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extend the securities to the carrier and determine the write-off of the securities, ensuring the identification of their holders ( BE ), which is lower than 5. the Commission, 206 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Prevents cash payments above EUR 10 000 ( BE ), which goes down to 5. the Commission, 207 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the obligation to register the shareholders of the banks to identify the effective beneficiaries of the entities participating in their capital ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 208 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June to make the legislative initiative of citizens ( The Greens) accessible, 209 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends the thirty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code by revising the system of penalties applicable to pet animals ( PS ), which falls below 1. the Commission, 210 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June by revising the requirements and procedures for the delivery of legislative initiatives by citizens ( PS ), and 211 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repeals the individual adaptability mechanisms and the individual hourly bank, making the first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ( CFP ). The draft deliberation No 7 / XIII was also presented ( 1. ( a ) — proposes the establishment of a working group for the study and implementation of an electronic delivery mechanism for citizens'legislative initiatives ( CDS-PP ). The following draft resolutions were also submitted: paragraphs 281 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Integrated measures to encourage birth ( CFP ), 282 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — improving coverage and extension of the supply of programme services on Digital Terrestrial Television ( TDT ) ( Os Verdes ), 283 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the reduction of the value of tolls on inland and road roads without adequate alternatives to mobility and safety ( PS ), 284 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by abolishing toll rates on the transmountain highway — A4 ( The Greens), 285 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the revision of the portage collection system in the former SCUT ( PSD ), 286 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create the guarantee plan for disabled children and young people ( CDS-PP ), 287 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create an incentive for a culture of corporate accountability ( CDS-PP ), 288 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish the Family Portal and a plan for its disclosure ( CDS-PP ), 289 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Flexibility of daycare hours through social security cooperation agreements, incentives to be established by companies and promotion of agreements between childcare establishments and employers ( CDS-PP ), 290 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee for monitoring initiatives on family and birth ( CDS-PP ), 291 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate telework ( CDS-PP ), 292 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consensual review of the school calendar ( CDS-PP ), 293 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrate 31 May as the National Day of the Brothers ( CDS-PP ), 294 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure and promote differentiation in access to housing and support to assign dependants and spouses to all existing programmes or to create ( CDS-PP ), 295 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend the legal regime for access to financial support Port 65 — Rent by Youth ( Port 65 — Youth ) ( CDS-PP ), 296 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Parentality protection measures ( BE), 297 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the transposition of the European Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing ( BE ), which goes down to 5 : the Commission, 298 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prepare for the extension of the supply of programme services on Digital Terrestrial Television ( PS ), and 299 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repair and urgent benefit of the road between Alcácer and Grândola in the Setúbal district ( BE ). With regard to Decree-Law No 11 / 2016 of 8 March, which establishes an exceptional measure of support for employment by reducing the contribution rate by the employer in 0, 75 percentage points on contributions relating to remuneration due in February 2016 to January 2017 [ Parliamentary assessment No 13 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) ), the Committee on Labour and Social Security informs that the process should be considered to be obsolete as no amendment has been adopted. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, for this proof of lung, voice and ability to make us understand what is at stake in the coming weeks in the Assembly of the Republic. Mrs. Members, let us therefore start the debate on appeal No 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — On the sustainability of social security and the use of the Financial Stability Fund ( PSD ). To open the debate, Mr Adam Silva, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Before the intervention begins, I would like to address a specific question to the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. One month and two days ago, the Prime Minister said that the urban rehabilitation fund would use EUR 1400 million — I repeat, EUR 1400 million — of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund. This was a month and two days ago. Today, the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has come to tell us that it is not EUR 1400 million — Mr Prime Minister was wrong — it is only EUR 500 million. Minister, you have to explain to us how in a month and two days so quickly the size of your sin has been reduced and so quickly the intent of your irresponsibility has been reduced. You must start by telling us that, Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, in Hamlet, of Shakespeare, the character Marcellus says that "there is something to rot in the kingdom of Denmark", it is not merely expressing perplexity and stupefaction, it also gives voice to claims of disaster and tragedy that will soon be consumed, as we all know. The Socialist Government's purpose of diverting EUR 500 million from the Fund for Financial Stabilization of Social Security — before it was EUR 1400 million — to finance the National Fund for Rehabilitation of the Building which has just created, brings us perplexity and stupefaction and does not stop predicting, from our point of view, a financial and social disaster, in addition to weakening the already fragile social security system. in a word: putting the social security fund on a real estate fund is to throw with the hope of pensioners to the fund, here in the sense of precipice. Let us remember: the Social Security Fund, which was formed in 1989, had the highest value at the end of 2015 more than EUR 14 billion. It's the largest public financial fund in the country. It is a mill that millions of workers on behalf of others, every month, grow, they are the true and only owners, they will be their final recipients and beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u6	This is therefore a sacred money that belongs to the millions of workers and pensioners who will be the oxygen balloon needed to pay pensions, when the social security system enters into structural imbalance, which is indeed already happening. Yes, as happened with the country as a whole in 2011, the financial imbalance also reached social security on that date. For this reason, between 2012 and 2015, the previous government transferred more than EUR 4500 million, exceptionally, to the social security welfare system through the State budget. In addition, this Government has already said that it will also transfer from the same source and also exceptionally in 2016 at least EUR 650 million. It is over EUR 5000 million that, in five years, are paying social security benefits. It is EUR 5000 million that could be paid very well by the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund, but it was not so that it continued to be safeguarded, preserved, growing so that it could be used in the future, paying the pensions of millions of Portuguese. Therefore, on behalf of these millions of Portuguese people who contribute to this Fund and to whom the Fund belongs, we demand and demand prudent, safe, rigorous management where investments are maximized on the market with full transparency and within an appropriate level of risk. A management such as that which has occurred in recent years, between 2012 and 2015, is said to be that the average profitability was above 10 % in the period concerned. In fact, the former government saved the country and saved social security. [[PSD applause.]] But, look, nothing is guaranteed. If the success of the previous government is irreversible, it is important to always guard against uncertainties and prevent evictions and recklessness. Only two examples: the value of the social security fund increased by around EUR 4500 million between 2012 and 2015, from EUR 9600 million to EUR 14 100 million. However, between 2010 and 2011, the overall value of the Fund declined, lost value, disvalued more than EUR 330 million. A little more than occurred during 2008, the year in which its annual profitability had already been negative by 3, 7 %! Do you remember Dr. Vieira da Silva? Do you remember? The social security fund is surely the oxygen balloon of social security. However, the government seems to be bet on breaking down the balloon. Social security lives in dizzying times, and what is less necessary is imposing decisions, foolish ones that fill us with perplexity and lead us to disaster. Watch out! I repeat: this money is the fruit of the sweat of millions of workers who cannot and must not be buried lightly in impoundered adventures! This money is from pensioners who see in this fund the foot-and-mouth that will safeguard their interests and rights. If not, the Government which displays the studies and calculations of profitability of this National Building Rehabilitation Fund and which still provides liquidity guarantees so that the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund will have money available when necessary. If that is not the case, it shows that, despite the real estate being today an investment of risk and low profitability, in this case, with this government, it will be different.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u7	You're better at theatre than in politics!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u8	If not, show the real owners of the social security fund that this is a secure business and that your money will not be spent in vain! If not, that shows that all this purpose is not a frenetic adventure with already smelling 2017, a smell of autarchic elections and benefiting only a few municipal chambers with the money that is from all of them. [[PSD applause.]] And if something goes wrong, how did it go in 2008, Dr. Vieira da Silva? What if the millions of workers laboriously and confidently believed that they were at their disposal to pay their pensions had disappeared? Who's gonna explain this? Perplexity, stupidity, restlessness, disaster announcement... as in the tragedy, there is something to rot in this government purpose. [[PCP protests.]] There, there. There's something to rot. Investments in the social security fund need to be diversified. We all agree. But then why invest in such a high-risk sector as real estate, where the Fund already has a small, very small percentage (less than 1 %) with low profitability, how is it known? Why not invest in support of businesses and the creation of sustainable, long-term and attractive jobs, especially for young people? This would undoubtedly be an excellent option, because it would be social security to invest in itself, considering that each job created, especially long-term employment, returns to social security through contributions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party is in favour of urban rehabilitation. More: during the last government in which we participated, the work developed was relevant, particularly because for the first time we gave a reformist and structural response — and not a care and symbolic one — to the challenge of urban rehabilitation. in this context, they deserve attention: the reform of the spatial planning, which defined only two classes of soil—Russic and urban— and eradicated the category of urbanizable soil that, in anticipation of urbanization, withdrew for decades the capacity to rehabilitate urban centres; the Exceptional Urban Rehabilitation Regime (REU), which for seven years exempts for buildings over 30 years, the fulfilment of some rules that, by making urban rehabilitation as demanding as the new construction, in practice, made those operations unfeasible, technically and financially impossible—with the REU, a reduction in the cost of urban rehabilitation is estimated at more than 30 %; the reform of urban lease, approved in 2012 and improved in 2014; or, the Rehabilitation programme for Landing; and finally, we approve financial instruments for energy efficiency over 600 million euros, giving a financial compound of EUR 3000 million for urban rehabilitation up to 2020. We therefore negotiated with both the European Commission and the European Investment Bank very significant money and built the financial mechanisms and instruments capable of operating. We also look forward to their implementation, which is already late by the Government. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it never occurred to us to see the use of social security money in businesses of such a high risk. It's all a matter of common sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u9	Mr President, since you have already spent time opening the debate by the PSD Parliamentary Group, I inform you that from now on you will be discounted in the debate time itself. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u10	Much less we had the memory of entering this adventureirism to put the workers of the north and south, the coast and the interior, to pay housing for affordable incomes, which can and should, I reiterate, be financed from other funds, other means and other procedures, which we left in Portuguese order. I hope that a government and a party who refuse to debate social security and its future, even though repeatedly challenging to do so by ourselves and by circumstances, will not be actively contributing to its unsustainability. May we not return to the times of the « Country that was a party», as the socialist ruler of the past well remembered, on the eve of we arrived almost on the brink of bankruptcy! I hope that, in the midst of this nebula of intentions, yet to explain, there is no secretion of any boy-spertism that makes the taxpayers of social security the retired payers. I hope that, once again, the whole country, the millions of workers and social security pensioners will not pay dearly for this imposed gesture. When in Hamlet, by Shakespeare, Marcellus says : « There is something rotting in the kingdom of Denmark », Horácio answers him, condemning him: « The divine providence has to decide».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u11	Again, Shakespeare? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u12	It's seen that you went to see Hamlet last weekend!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u13	Now, when it comes to the sound management of the money that belongs to millions of workers and pensioners, it helps us to the divine providence that this government is betting on bringing to ruin money that does not belong to it, but it is crucial to give hope and certainty to millions of Portuguese. I'd love to! It would be intolerable! It would be inhuman! in a word: it would be tragic! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u14	Mr Adam Silva, the time you spent the most was discounted in the actual discussion time of the PSD and the same will apply to the government if this phenomenon happens. At the opening stage of the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The sustainability of social security is an issue of indisputable importance and, as such, this appeal to the Government made by the PSD would have had all the sense and opportunity not been presented here by an unacceptable mixture of demagogy and ignorance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Social security and, in particular, pension systems face demanding challenges in general throughout the world and clearly in our country. These challenges are essentially linked to demographic changes associated with aging, as well as to the impact of long-term situations of weak growth or even recession. In Portugal, both factors have been marked in recent years, particularly with the emergence of highly penalizing demographic perspectives that emerged in the second half of this century. Emigration, only comparable to the levels recorded in the 1970s, substantially aggravated this scenario, with negative impacts on the short-term balance of the social security system. The austerity measures implemented for « beyond the troika », by the PSD Government and the CDS, also had an estimated negative impact of more than EUR 1, EUR 2 billion on contributions and an increase in unemployment benefits of EUR 900 million. In the long term, the outlook for expenditure associated with ageing, carried out by several international organizations, although with significant differences, clearly states two very important signs: a reduced pressure on public expenditure arising from pension expenditure and a significant risk of degradation of the quality of protection guaranteed by them. These challenges deserve serious and thorough reflection, but they have already made it possible to appreciate an indisputable reality: the recovery of the national productive base of employment and remuneration is by far the most powerful instrument of response, both to the financial sustainability of social security and to its social sustainability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund was set up some 25 years ago, although only since 1997 has been financially fed. Its creation was followed by a long period when surpluses generated by the system did not guarantee the creation and strengthening of any savings instrument in the system, which significantly weakened its strategic response capacity. The transfers to the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security were therefore late and concentrated in a small number of years. Ninety percent of the transfers to the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security are concentrated in the years 1997 to 2002 and 2006 to 2011, curiously every year of the Socialist Party's government! I repeat, 90 % of transfers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All of these transfers, as well as their capitalisation, have allowed the value of the funds to reach up to EUR 14 billion, still far from the goal set by the law to guarantee a value equivalent to two years of contribution pensions. The legal framework for the financial management of these funds has evolved over the years and has focused, especially since 2013 on the Portuguese public debt, which has been authorised to represent 90 % of the total resources. however, this legal framework has always integrated the possibility of implementation in real estate funds, although in decreasing size: of the 30 % fixed in 1991, it has increased to a maximum of 10 % — these EUR 1400 million. over these years, the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security, Mrs and Mrs. Members, participated in 11 real estate funds, repeat, 11 real estate funds, of which four nationals. The profitability of the Fund has historically doubled its nominal value and, even in a long and demanding series such as that of the last decade, average profitability was close to 3 %. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Urban rehabilitation is a clear priority of our economy, a priority which has long been valued, far from becoming reality. It has very positive impacts not only on the enhancement of heritage, particularly of medium and large urban centres, on the recovery of the activity of the construction sector — and how important it is! — in environmental sustainability or in improving the quality of tourism supply, but also an enormous potential impact on the ability to create sustainable and quality jobs, a decisive factor at the current stage of our development. The possibility of applying resources from the Stabilisation Fund in urban rehabilitation-oriented investments is presented as a public policy with clear advantages: it incorporates the possibilities legally provided for in this fund, as well as directly benefits the economy and employment and thus the sustainability of the social security system. However, it is important to ensure that such an option does not entail undue risks to the nature and objectives of the Stabilisation Fund. At least four instruments contribute strongly to this guarantee. First, the management of these investments will be the responsibility of a public real estate fund, subject to all supervision standards. Secondly, the participation of the Stabilisation Fund will be, as the law and its statutes impose it, always a minority. Thirdly, the fund to be set up aims to ensure the recovery of market assets, ensuring that they are cost-effective to the intended application. Finally, the organisation and management of the real estate fund will be carried out under flexibility conditions which ensure prudent management of the involvement of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund. These options remove any involvement in speculative applications, as well as do not fit into a social housing logic for which other instruments exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As I said earlier, this interpellation would have all the sense and opportunity, because it is important to demystify the application of resources from the Stabilisation Fund and urban rehabilitation-oriented investments, and it is possible that this happens, as I said, over the years, without jeopardising the balance and profitability of the fund. This discussion is also appropriate because the sustainability of social security is an essential component of the social contract and a fundamental instrument for social cohesion. in the past decade, we corrected some distortions of our system caused by a devaluation of the contribution effort. The introduction of regulatory instruments that assimilate part of demographic changes, including the increase in life expectancy, makes the Portuguese social security system today have sound and sustainable rules on the right to protection in old age. We also know that in recent years less appropriate options have been taken, particularly about the sustainability factor, but that, despite this, they have not been able to challenge the essentials of the system. We believe that, despite the difficulties caused by new economic and sociodemographic challenges, the Portuguese pension system is, from a structural point of view, a viable and sustainable system. The problems that arise today in terms of sustainability result from the effects generated by a deep retraction of economic activity and the demographic worsening...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u16	Mr Minister, from now on time will be cut in the debate time itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. That is why the answers must be given in terms of economic recovery and, above all, employment recovery. Never has a PS government ceased to make the necessary reforms to the social security system, but always the PS governments refused to break the state's commitment to pensioners. We do not equalize the public, universal and solidarity of the social security system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will work on the evaluation of the system and recent changes, on the re-evaluation of the sustainability factor, on the diversification of sources of funding, so that the contribution revenue does not become too dependent on the swings of the level of employment, but any change to be introduced will not call into question the civilizational conquest that was the social contract that allowed the development of the cohesion levels of our country. Pensions allocated for a final purpose shall not be cut. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our social security system is based on the principle of intergenerational solidarity. We do not believe that the solution goes through the individualization of risks that are socially more unjust and that it does not solve any of the economic problems of social protection, only disresponsibility to the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not refuse a reformist management that adapts social protection to changes in a society where we live longer and we remain active. Despite favourable demographic prospects, there is still, in Portuguese society, an essential human potential for the recovery of social security. That is where the answer to the financing of social security lies, and it is on this basis, and only on this basis, that the essential consensus in this area should be built within Portuguese society. for our part, we are available for these consensus, but not at the cost of the principles of sustainability, not at the cost of the principles of social cohesion, not at the cost of the principles of solidarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u18	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the stage of the debate itself. The Bureau records several entries for requests for clarification both Mr Adam Silva and Mr Minister. Let's start with the questions to ask the PSD. Mr Adam Silva, four Mrs are registered. Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u19	Mr President, I shall first respond to a group of two Mrs. Members and then to the other group of two Members. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u20	You then have the floor to Mrs Rita Rato to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Adam Silva here told us that the PSD has concerns about the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund. over four years, the former Government has never complied with the Social Security Basics Act, has not transferred a hundred of what was planned for the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u22	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u23	... and you are here today to say that you are very concerned about the sustainability of the Fund. Mr President, we cannot believe this because this rhetorical concern does not follow the practice of four years in which you have done anything less to ensure the viability of social security. [[PCP applause.]] Mr President, to make it clear on the part of the CFP, we would like to say from now on that, as one of the financial instruments of social security, its management requires rigour, prudence and transparency and, on the basis of these principles, we believe that workers' representatives must be part of their management and control.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u24	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u25	In addition, we believe that the use of any recourse to this Fund should bear in mind the objectives to which the financial resources of social security are intended and the objective of the financial resources of social security is not the promotion of public policies that go beyond its objectives and mission. Mr President, I would also like to say that from the CFP we believe that the application of the resources of the Financial Stabilization Fund into a public urban rehabilitation fund in a careful and evaluated manner can make sense. However, we believe that designing the Fund as a means of financing public policies for urban rehabilitation is insufficient in view of the needs that exist in the country in relation to housing policy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Adam Silva, the main threats to public social security were the four years of PSD/CDS government,... [[PCP applause.]] ... were political options that promoted unemployment, precariousness, emigration and thus conditioned contributing cycles. Unemployment and emigration mean loss of income for social security...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u26	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u27	... and precariousness means the same: interrupted cycles of contribution to social security. That's why the former PSD and CDS government, when you got pregnant... [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u28	Mrs. Deputy, I'm going to ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u29	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the former PSD and CDS government, when it got pregnant and facilitated layoffs, when it generalized precariousness and low wages, knew well that it was weakening social security. In fact, the objective was even that to justify its privatization. Mr Adam Silva, it would not have been by chance that the PSD/CDS coalition programme would say that: introduce for younger generations a higher limit for contribution purposes to ensure freedom of choice between the public system and the private system. in fact, what PSD and CDS always wanted was a two-speed system: private pension funds for high pensions and a public security system for poor pensions. Don't count on the PCP! Our contribution is for progress and social justice! [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u30	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful that they create conditions for us to hear the speakers. Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Adam Silva has come to tell us that the previous government has saved social security. Now, we want to laugh because we know what the previous government did to social security. We know what you did about employment, immigration, birth and invitations to employers to say goodbye. Mr Adam Silva, if they were so good at the measures they took as in the magic numbers they now proclaim here,... [[PSD protests.]] ...if they were so good at the measures that they took as they are to quote the classics, perhaps the social security situation would be better.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u33	After all that the previous government has done to social security, Mr. Adam Silva still has the courage to say that the previous government has saved social security! Is that what you're talking about? They have not saved social security, but they have courage, and this must also be recorded. Mr President, in view of things, the policy of the PSD/CDS Government on social security did not go too far from these two central elements: on the one hand, the reduction of the expenditure on paid benefits, where, moreover, there are also those EUR 600 million that the former Government intends to withdraw from pensions, pensioners and, on the other hand, the progressive privatisation of the system with the introduction of ceilings. Therefore, these measures, in addition to all the consequences that result in social injustice, still show us the credibility of the previous government's word, which changed the rules in the middle of the game, which did not want to know of the commitments that the State had made with the reformers, which ignored the fundamental law of the country and which did not say before thousands and thousands of pensioners. But the previous government did worse because its blindness with austerity ended up multiplying unemployment and emigration, which are two decisive factors for the sustainability of social security, which had, in fact, still reflected on the level of birth, further degrading the conditions of sustainability. Mr Adam Silva, I may be mistaken, but, as I know, the PSD/CDS government has failed to publish the portal with the revaluation coefficients of wages that serve to calculate pensions, which has determined that people who retired or retired in 2015 are currently receiving lower pensions than those who are entitled to.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u34	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u35	Sir, may I be wrong...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u36	He's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u37	... and, therefore, I would like you to tell us—until the honourable Member is attentive to these questions—there is a classic one able to quote and answer this question: what is the number of the door office that makes the revaluation of wages for 2015? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u38	To reply, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u39	Mr President, before replying to Mrs Rita Rato and Mr José Luís Ferreira, to whom I thank for the questions you have asked me, I would like to say two words about the intervention of the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. The first is that the Minister did not justify this early fall, at the end of a month and two days, from EUR 1400 million to EUR 500 million in the investment of the rehabilitation fund. It was important to realize why you were encouraged, because Mr. Prime Minister committed himself to 1400 million and V. Exa comes to say: « No, it is no longer 1400 million, it is 500 million». Sin is the same, it's just a question of numbers, but irresponsibility is the same. Minister, I heard you and I was a little surprised by what you were saying, because it was just words, words, words. And, two, one : or VV. They are still here to see how it will be with this thing of the rehabilitation fund, or you do not even know this matter, nor do you want to compromise—almost a kind of Hamletian proclamation "to be or not be, here is the question! » — or, then, VV. Ex.as have a hidden truth, which is not yet to be revealed today, which is obviously bad with regard to the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security ( FEFSS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u41	Mrs. Mr Rita Rato and José Luís Ferreira, I will answer the two together, whose questions, in fact, were very similar. The government, from which the PSD has been part in the last four years, has saved social security because it saved the country from bankruptcy...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u43	... and also saved the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Members, a government which at the end of four years — and the Fund, as Mr Minister said, is over 25 years old — increases by about a third the overall value of the Fund, approximately EUR 4500 million, and gives it a return of more than 10 %, is it not to claim for us this responsibility, this attention, this request, this diligence, this intransigence in expenditure with the Fund?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u44	All right! [[Protests from PS and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u45	I think it is, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. On the other hand, the gentlemen. Members have not said whether or not they agree, which is an extraordinary thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u46	So we didn't say? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u47	They didn't say anything whether or not they agreed. And perhaps it was important to consult what Mr. Jorge Machado said a few years ago in 2008 when the Financial Stabilization Fund dropped in EUR 300 million,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u48	That's it now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u49	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u50	...or, then, what your comrade Armenio Carlos says. It's worth knowing what they're saying,... [[PCP protests.]] ... because they do not agree with this and the principle is "this is the money of the worker who cannot be put on an adventure on the part of the government". [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u51	These situations are better than the ones you left!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u52	To request clarification, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u53	Mr President, Mr. Adam Silva said here that the previous government saved social security. I do not understand how it was the previous government that saved social security if it was the previous government that, for the first time, created a deficit in the contribution system, if it was the previous government that contributed to the sharp fall of the active population,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... if it was the previous government that destroyed more than 200 000 jobs and if it was the previous government that significantly lowered wages in Portugal. These four factors, Mr. Members, I think they are unquestionable, and they are the four determining factors of any sustainability of a pension system and were the four significantly damaged by your party, Mr Adam Silva. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, you will have to explain a little better how that happened. On the other hand, we are here at a time when Mr Patinhas seems to think that the only way to manage the funds of the Social Security Stability Fund is to bury money on the ground, put it on the ground and not move on it. Only that this has a problem, Mr, because what you are doing implies an amendment to the legislative framework of the Fund itself, and today the Fund (and I seem to give you something new) already invests, Mr. Therefore, the discussion is not to invest or not, but rather to invest, with what objectives, with what risk and within what policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u54	It's good to clarify that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u55	Therefore, the debate cannot be the one that you have put here. In fact, it cannot be said that the honourable Member, in the midst of his speech, has changed his mind, and it seems that it is only Uncle Patinhas in relation to urban rehabilitation, that he is no longer Uncle Patinhas in relation to everything else. The honourable Member said that the Government should not apply part of the Social Security Stability Fund money to public housing policies, policies that create jobs and support businesses, including businesses that are engaged in urban rehabilitation. The honourable Member said: "This is sin, because it is money from the sweat of the workers! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” What the honourable Member would propose, if it were consistent, was "Nothing is done about money. You end up with the Fund and you put the money in a dumpster! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u56	You didn't say anything about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u57	But that is not what the honourable Member has said. What the honourable Member said was: « Urban rehabilitation...», which is probably one of the most intensive work activities and therefore an activity that, if stimulated, more positively contributes to social security, either in numbers of workers, or in wages, «... no, that is sin! I defend... and I hope to be quoting it correctly, «...that it will apply in support of companies and job creation! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Well, urban rehabilitation also has businesses and jobs, but we already know that these don't like them. The only policies to increase the employment of the PSD we know are subsidies to companies with the single social rate. Therefore, Mr President, we already know that it is against public investment, that this is a sin for you, the only policy to support the creation of jobs I know of the PSD is the reduction of taxes on companies or the reduction of the contribution rate on companies. Is that what the honourable Member has in mind? Oh, my God! Is it using the money, as you say, of the sweat and blood of the workers? Oh, my God! Is that what you want? Oh, my God! Is it giving the social security fund to businesses? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u58	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u59	It is the only job creation measure we know of you, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u60	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u61	By the way, I will give you something new: if what is so high is the risk, then all the fund-implementation activities are at risk, Mr Deputies, and job creation and business support also have, and probably much less than urban rehabilitation. Therefore, Mr President, it is decided: either it is consistently Uncle Patinhas or it is selectively, and if it is selectively, it has to explain to what extent its position makes sense. I, I confess, have some difficulty understanding. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u62	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u63	Mr President, Mr. Adam Silva, your statement is curious,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u64	Do you agree or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u65	... because the last time he moved into the Fund for Financial Stabilization of Social Security was through a Manhosa gate, Portaria No. 216 -A / 2013 of 2 July, signed by former Minister Vítor Gaspar and former Minister Pedro Mota Soares, who is sitting there today on the bench and who, as everything indicates, will be silenced in this debate. It is a door without consent of the representatives of the workers, with the setting-up of a meeting of the Advisory Council of the Fund, which did not have its members appointed, designed to manipulate the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security, in order to put an end to the diversity that must characterize its portfolio of assets, invoking, of course, the arguments of the troika. That is why, Mr President, there is a need to do something like what you have done here today. I would like to remember that the PSD is the champion of the deterioration of social security and its sustainability. He is the champion of the degradation of the sustainability of social security, because he called into question basic principles, did not safeguard basic principles of equality, universality, promotion of social cohesion and solidarity that sustain social security. It did not do so when it cut the social support, including the ISC (a supportive complement for the elderly) and the IRS ( an inclusion social income ). He didn't do it when he turned social action into a business. He did not do so when he broke the social contract and the principle of trust, when he made unconstitutional cuts to pensioners and when he announced, because that was your project, the cut of 600 million euros in pensions, which we would be discussing here. The sustainability of social security for the PSD was to aggravate the sustainability factor, to cut pensions, to increase the retirement age and to try to propose the transformation of social security into a huge business niche through capping and through the use of financial markets. Mr President, what has been the impact on the sustainability of social security and unemployment, which is the product of the PSD austerity policy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u67	What has been the impact of thousands of people whose abilities are wasted, because they do not contribute, cannot contribute? What has been the impact of rising unemployment? [[On the contrary!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u68	What has been the impact on the sustainability of the social security of the immigration invitations that the PSD/CDS government has made to the Portuguese? [[Congratulations from BE.]] They made 500 000 people leave the country, unable to work and contribute to social security. Mr President, what has been the impact of your obsession with lowering wages in Portugal and cutting people's income?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u69	Mr President, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u70	What has been the impact on the sustainability of social security? What has been the impact on the sustainability of social security of the generalization of precariousness, which causes people not to be able to contribute to social security, or to informalization of work, which puts people out of the system, thus not making their contributions and not being protected by social security. Mr Member, what would be the impact of the proposal from the PSD for reducing TSU (the single social rate ), which is a proposal that presents the main source of funding for the system, which are social contributions, as an obstacle to employment and growth? See if there is a greater attack on the sustainability of social security! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u71	The honourable Member said here that the PSD saved social security because it saved the country from bankruptcy. Mr. Deputies, that story is enough! That's enough! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] You did not save the country from bankruptcy, nor did you save the sweat and blood of the workers. You used the sweat and blood of the workers to pay the creditors and to save the bank, and people realize the difference between that and a policy to promote employment and protect social security. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u72	To reply, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u73	Mr President, Mr José Moura Soeiro asked a number of very important questions, because they are structural to social security. In fact, what has been the impact of falling employment, rising unemployment, reducing economic growth in social security during these crisis periods? It was too big! It was too big! The truth is we left the job growing,
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u74	The job's growing, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u75	... unemployment to be reduced and the economy of the country growing. Mr President, I now ask you one question: what would be the impact on the country's social security if we had done what your Greek comrades did, who asked for the second and third rescue? [[Good question!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u76	What would the impact be? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Do you not agree with what is happening in Greece at the moment, where pensions have to be cut by more than 30 %? Oh, my God! [[BE's protests.]] Don't stay. And you know why? Oh, my God! Because they asked for the third rescue, which did not happen in Portugal, because we saved the country and saved social security. That's it! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] Mr. João Galamba, I thought that you, for your close and supportive relationship with the government, would explain to us how they spent from EUR 1400 million in a month and two days to EUR 500 million. Exa didn't explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u77	He doesn't know either!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u78	I thought Mr. Minister had explained, he didn't explain; you don't either... or you don't know, or you're actually pregnant with this conversation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u79	It's the regulation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u80	You really don't know how they're going to get out of this conversation where they got into it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u81	But that's usually your policy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u82	But, Mr. João Galamba, speaking now of things you have discussed. The deficits in the social security distribution system began in 2008. I'm going to tell you: 2008, 2010, 2011 and so on. Sir, what we left behind was the contributions to grow... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Are you in doubt? If you want, I'll repeat the numbers. There was a deficit in the social security system in 2008, about EUR 170 million. I tell you more, Mr President: we have left the contributions growing by about 4, 7%; we have left a social security balance overall of more than EUR 1000 million; we have left employment growing and unemployment declining, and that is really very important. I will conclude by saying the following: we agree that there are applications of the Financial Stabilisation Fund...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u83	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u84	Wait a minute, sir! Wait a minute! Don't say "Ah! », as if it were a startling thing. We agree that there is this investment...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u85	It's time for Uncle Patinhas!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u86	Okay. You like comic strips, I prefer classics. Look, it's options! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] They're options! You like things...! Exactly! [[Congratulations from PSD, CDS-PP and PS MP João Galamba.]] Thank you for your applause, sir. Everyone likes what he likes, he's got the mental age he's got, the final point. I will tell you more, Mr President, see: what we do not agree with is that the money from the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security is put into something called 'accessible income'. We don't know what this is.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u87	You don't know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u88	It's not on the market! It's not on the market, because, look, it's already invested in the market. That's it, and we know that. In 2014 there were around 160 million euro invested in real estate, it was 1, 4 % of the overall value of the Fund. There's no problem, but it's on the market, it's not a social logic, it's not a logic of affordable income that nobody knows what it is. [[Ah! After all, he knows!]] [[Ah! After all, he knows!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u89	That's right! It's just that the question is... [[BE's protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u90	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u91	I was done, Mr. President,...! Social security has a solidarity component, and we very much like it, for which it transfers around EUR 7 billion per year. And this is very important. Now, everyone knows that in the founding structure of the Financial Stabilization Fund itself, this Fund is for the market, it is not for the promotion of government social policies whose profitability is unknown and whose risk is highest. We don't tolerate this! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u92	We now turn to requests for clarification to Mr Vieira da Silva. Six of them were registered. Members to ask for clarification and the Minister will respond to a set of three. by order of inscription, Mr Manuel Rodrigues of the Social Democratic Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u93	Mr President, Minister, we know that according to the Fund's regulation the Fund must be invested in net assets by definition and we know that real estate is a liquid asset. And this concern is as much as we know that the Fund has not yet reached the minimum required by law, which is to ensure the coverage of pensionable expenditure for a minimum period of two years. But speaking of the question of profitability, which has already been discussed here today by the Socialist Party's bench, how the Fund invests, with what policy, with what risk... and the real estate is a class of assets as another class of assets, and in this sense we agree with Mr. Minister. But now, in a technical and constructive perspective, let's look at what has been the performance of the real estate investments of the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security. What do we see? The Fund generated between 2012 and 2015 an average annual profitability of more than 10 %. We know that this was also due to the recovery of public debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u94	Mr President, that is not serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u95	In real estate investments in 2012, we know that the Fund lost 2, 4 %. In 2013 the Fund lost, with real estate investments, 3, 6 %. In 2014 the Fund had a lower return on real estate assets at 3 percentage points to the average. I ask, Minister : what is the decision to be investing in real estate when we know it has been precisely the class of assets where the Fund has lost and less has gained? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u96	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u97	Mr President, I begin by recording that somewhere, between tragedy and comedy, the concern of the PSD for the sustainability of social security would be comical not all its policies during the last four years for the Portuguese people and workers. [[PCP applause.]] Mr President, Minister, one of the problems facing social security is undoubtedly the high volume of debt, the avoidance and the prescription of these same debts. Between 2005 and 2014, debt to social security increased seven times from €1442 million to more than €10,200 million and for years nothing was done to recover those debts, then using this liabilities to justify cancellation of them, thus forgiving debts to the employer. Much of this money is made in the wages of workers by employers who have never been given to social security, but for the benefit of employers, harming workers and social security. in this sense, Minister, it is important to know what concrete measures to combat fraud and avoidance have the government in mind to implement. Another concern that we are concerned about is a large set of social security revenues from the social security system and, again, the workers' discounts, which are improperly used, which is not uncommonly the money that, in the context of these contracts, has subsidized the employer to pay wages, especially to workers who, in response to permanent needs, are pushed into the carousel of precariousness. In this way, the interest of the employer is defended, but not the interests of the workers, nor of social security. We also asked for the Government's reflection on this matter. Finally, it is also important — and we note in your speech the reference to this matter — to know what the Government intends to do in order to ensure that social security does not lose more than EUR 500 million per year every year, due to the wide range of exemptions and reductions from the TSU which have proliferated. Finally, we also noted what has been said about the diversification of sources of social security financing, because in our economy there are many companies today that, having high profits, guarantee few jobs and contribute little to social security. And we do not forget that in the past we have put forward proposals precisely in this direction, which were plunged by the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u98	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor to make his request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security is too serious to be subject to irresponsible electoralism. It's the Portuguese pensions that are at stake. I start with two previous notes. It was the gentlemen who started cutting and freezing pensions,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u100	...we took them off. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It was you who left EUR 8 billion in the Fund, we left EUR 14 billion. By the way, I'm asking for an explanation. Mr Prime Minister announced EUR 1400 million for this fund; Mr Environment Minister announced the same value; Mr Minister did not deny it in the Commission; and now we see that it is, after all, 500 million. What is the explanation for this reduction? By the way, the National Reform Programme says that it is EUR 500 million for 2702 fires, which gives 185 000 €/ fire in rehabilitation. What are you going to do? Luxury apartments? Oh, my God! Or will they also rehabilitate the public space, to help some friendly cameras in the local elections? Is that what's at stake? I know what Dr. António Costa thought, as President of the City Hall of Lisbon, with his right arm Manuel Salgado: the public money was to rehabilitate the public space, the private money was to rehabilitate the building. That is what has been said. Have you changed your mind now? Oh, my God! What is the expected profitability for this investment made with the money of our reforms?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u101	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u102	Do you know that in Lisbon you can't charge a third of the value of social housing income? Do you know that in 2014 it was €6.7 million that were in debt? Do you know that by the time Dr. António Costa was President of the City Council of Lisbon in 2010 we were already worth more than €18.5 million? However, what we know is that the average profitability of recent years of the Financial Stabilization Fund is more than 6, 3 %. in real estate funds we are talking about a negative profitability as a rule in the first 10 years and only after these 10 years is we achieve a profitability of less than 2 %. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u103	But how is it that the objectives are guaranteed, that investment is to be reproductive and not to harm the reforms that are at stake here? We clearly have the conviction that everything is not worth everything. in politics it can't be worth everything! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u104	In reply, Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions you asked me. Mr Rodrigues, first of all, I should like to thank you for bringing some seriousness to this debate on the side of your bench. Mr President, the first clarification I would like to make has to do with this kind of novel that opposition benches are trying to build on the issue of values. I explain in a very clear way: what was said by Mr. Prime Minister corresponds to the maximum value that exists in the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u106	That's not what he said!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u107	... and that can be mobilized for real estate investments.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u108	That's something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u109	Then there is an estimate for the fund to be created, which has a value of around EUR 1500 million, of which the participation of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund in 10 years may reach a third of that value. And then there is a value for the fund to create urban rehabilitation, on the temporary horizon of the National Reform Programme, which corresponds to EUR 500 million. Do you understand? Or do you have to draw a picture? [[PS's laughter and applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u110	You draw better than you explain! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u111	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us create conditions for the Minister to continue his reply. Mr. Minister, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u112	Mr President, I hope this time is not running out.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u113	He is, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u114	Mr. Manuel Rodrigues, the first question to be clarified is that unlike the voices that have been raised, particularly at your bench, real estate investment by the Social Security Fund is not new. It's not a new thing. And I said, but it seems that some Members have not heard, on how many real estate funds the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund has already participated. It is true, Mr President, that, in particular in contexts of deep devaluation of the real estate market, which is not, fortunately, the situation we are experiencing today, at some times some of these funds have had worse results, but at others have had good results. As you know very well, there were also real estate funds that had good results in the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund. Therefore, the question that we need to consider seriously is whether this initiative, of this fund, is an appropriate initiative or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u115	Of course it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u116	I would like to say, but the Minister of the Environment will explain this better than I do, that this is a fund that is not to make social policy, social housing, and therefore all the statements in this sense lack a basis. It is not to place social income housing on the market, but it is also not to speculate with real estate funds. It is to place on the market affordable but producing income, which generate profitability for the Fund, a set of assets, particularly of public heritage, which is currently being abandoned. If the gentlemen. Members do not consider this a good application of social security funds to be wrong. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Diana Ferreira, I would like to stress that combating fraud and avoidance is a fundamental priority in any social security policy. Obviously, I do not have time in this question to identify all the instruments we want to use to reduce the risk of this occurrence. However, I would like to say that the mechanisms for cross-border data will be strengthened between the various public administration instruments — finance and social security, in particular. We are currently implementing a new statement of remuneration, which will, in our view, be a very powerful tool to control and combat evasion and debt, and there is a joint strategy between the various ministries to respond to the issue of debt, not only with the concern of preventing it from growing, but also with the concern of defence of employment. Mr António Carlos Monteiro, as regards this story of friends, you will know what you are talking about. We'll talk about this later.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u117	Mr. Minister, you have to explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u118	But, Mr President, after clarifying the issue of numbers, I cannot fail to recall that the last time the opposition benches brought to this House of the Republic the debate on the sustainability of social security, in a serious and deep way, was to present a proposal for the creation of a sustainable contribution which was plunged by the Constitutional Court. That was the only concrete and serious but wrong and unconstitutional proposal that you have been able to present. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And your conviction was so much that, following this lead by the Constitutional Court, a Member who is sitting in the front row of the PSD bench said in this House that the Constitution was not useful because it precisely did not allow your concept of sustainability to be applied, which is the cut in pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u119	We now begin the second round of requests for clarification from the Minister. The first registered is Mr. José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u120	Mr President, Minister, in fact, we know that the known changes in recent years, but especially in the previous PSD/CDS government, at the level of social security, were intended solely to control the increase in public expenditure. We are talking, for example, about the suspension of anticipation, because of the regime of flexibility, the age of reform, which, in fact, implied that between 2012 and 2014 workers were literally prevented from reforming themselves at a lower age than the legal age of reform. But we could also talk about indexing the age of reform to the average life expectancy, a measure that further penalized reform before the legal age. And we could also talk about the worsening of the sustainability factor made by the previous government, which came to penalise, in a very cruel way, the people who anticipate the age of reform. Therefore, Minister, there is much to be done in this area. It is necessary to seek to improve the financial sustainability conditions of social security and it is necessary to seek to counter demographic pressures by gaining a particular focus on promoting birth. We know that the current government has made a commitment to undertake a rigorous assessment of the system's situation, with a view to improving sustainability, seeking new forms of financing and combating fraud and tax evasion. In fact, fraud and tax evasion are at present very worrying levels and are causing the breakdown of pensions, as the lack of financial resources always ends up as a pretext for not updating pensions. We welcome the measures announced here in the fight against fraud and tax evasion, but this is certainly not the only cause of the degradation of social security pensions, because it will still have to add to the erosion of the contribution base. As we know, the share of the net domestic product that reverts to workers in the form of orders and wages is the basis by which contributions to social security are calculated, but what we have been watching in recent years is that this base is getting smaller because lower wages have also been paid. In other words, today, it is much less the share of wealth that is created and that does not contribute to social security than that which contributes, which are the orders and wages. And this trend seriously compromises the sustainability of social security, forcing more cuts in pensions and preventing the proper and fair updating of pensions if no action is taken for the future. The question I would like to ask you, Minister, is exactly about this matter and whether the Government is available to extend the basis for calculating the contributions of companies, in order to consider all the wealth created in the country and not only the part of the orders and salaries. Finally, Mr Minister, since Mr. Adam Silva was unable to find a classic that would indicate to us the number of the door with the coefficients of the revaluation of wages for 2015, I would like to know whether the government is thinking not to eliminate but to cushion the negative effects of this injustice created by the PSD/CDS government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u121	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, this debate was quite relevant for several aspects, being one of them quite enlightening. The right, in particular the PSD, is quite available for the application of money from the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security, provided it is on the market, i.e., provided it is in speculation. [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] It is that investment in the real economy, in the production of employment, that is a danger, cannot be,... [[Of course!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u123	...we can't go that way. We have been made clear on this matter. And we were even made clear because Mr Adam Silva was quite emphatic when he said that what was needed was to support companies, it was to apply these funds in support of companies, because, in relation to the provision of more housing for Portuguese and Portuguese, in this regard, there was no priority. In our view, this is an economic thought that is very characteristic of this right, this right...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u124	There are 1 million empty houses!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u125	... based on their economic thinking on markets, speculation and nothing more than that. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, taking advantage of Mr Adam Silva's packaging for the classics, he must have read a work by Shakespeare that says: so much noise for nothing! Words, words, just words, and nothing more than that. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u126	Mr Adam Silva, you wanted to bring here only a political debate to challenge a measure that is fair, in the sense of dynamising the economy, in the sense of job creation and, above all, in the sense of changing the paradigm of the development model that you have strongly supported, which is a model of development that is exhausted, which is antisocial, anti-environmental and anti-urban. Today, what we have to do is privilege, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is indeed urban rehabilitation. And if there is a measure that can be implemented in the direction of urban rehabilitation to increase energy efficiency, to create employment, particularly proximity employment, because there are many businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, which will work in rehabilitation, as civil construction entrepreneurs themselves have often mentioned, this measure is this and it is a good measure, in which money saved by workers in social security can and should be applied. It's a good measure to apply that money. You don't even have a look at that money, because, in general, in the pigmeat, you threaten yourself, you save money to invest, while you have the prospect of putting the money under the mattress. For what? So you can invest in speculation, and nothing more than that. from our point of view, urban rehabilitation should be encouraged. from our point of view, urban rehabilitation will create jobs. And urban rehabilitation, if it creates jobs, will certainly contribute to more money, more social security discounts. And, in this perspective, urban rehabilitation also contributes to the sustainability of social security. Therefore, in the view of the Left Block, the investment of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund in this perspective is a good investment and should be supported. And what we want to ask the Government here is whether the Government guarantees that this Fund is precisely for urban rehabilitation, whether it will create jobs and whether, in view of urban rehabilitation and job creation, the Government guarantees that this work has continuity and will also contribute to the sustainability of social security. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u127	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u128	Mr President, Minister, this matter naturally gives the PSD numerous concerns. We have already said this, and we reiterate: using pension money, using the financial cushion that is reserved for pension payments, the money that is from the workers, to make urban rehabilitation is a risky and very unwise management exercise—risked and very unwise, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! And the government knows we're right. The PSD has come to denounce this, and the government has acknowledged that we are right, because even today, it has come to the public that has reduced to about one third the value originally intended for this speculative financial operation. Thus, of the EUR 1400 million, they have now decided to risk EUR 500 million. Mr Minister, we all know that we have a problem of sustainability in social security and the government, instead of recognizing the problem, facing it and trying to solve it, what you are doing is making it even worse. You are decapitalizing social security to do business, and you are despondently jeopardizing the payment of pensions in the future. Question: Has the government reverted many of the policies of the previous government, promoters of urban rehabilitation and whose funding was preferably private, namely the law of supported income and the law of new income, and is now calling for rehabilitation with the money of social security, with the money of workers? What's the point of this, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u130	In order to withdraw the greatest financial benefits from this national building rehabilitation fund, investment in the most profitable city, which is Lisbon, will most likely be preferred. In fact, this Fund will certainly not have been presented in Lisbon, by the Prime Minister and by the President of the House himself. And, of course, the national building rehabilitation fund is intended for buildings whose property is public, I ask: to whom will the House of Lisbon offer its buildings, the buildings you want to rehabilitate, in the absence of private people who join its program? And I can also reply, Minister : to the fund promoted by the Government and Prime Minister António Costa, former President of the City Council of Lisbon. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u131	It seems clear to us that this rehabilitation fund, although it has associated other municipalities and entities, was designed, the rule and framework, for Lisbon. Perfectly fits the Lisbon programmes. And I, as a Member elected by the district of Lisbon, must say here that, in my view, Lisbon deserves and needs much to be rehabilitated. Lisbon, the capital of the country, is dirty and disorderly, its heritage is degraded and deserves to be rehabilitated, but from there until it instrumentalizes the money of social security in the service of civil construction and real estate, without guarantee of return, until the incomes will be fixed below the market price. And now, Minister, I ask: what is the concept of affordable income? Legally, what is this affordable income that the Minister of the Environment has already spoken of?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u132	There is everywhere in the world, Your Honor! Just open your eyes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u133	Mr Minister, this constitutes a risk that only serves to fulfill an actual electoral agenda in favour of the PS. Finally, Mr Minister, I must say that we know that Mr. Prime Minister has not left enough work in Lisbon to win elections. We know this, but it is unacceptable, it is totally unacceptable that it will come now, as Prime Minister, to seek to redeem itself and carry out the work in Lisbon, which, by incompetence, did not, for seven years as President of the House. It is unacceptable, even more so, with the money of social security. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u134	To reply to the honourable Members. Members José Luís Ferreira, Pedro Soares and Sandra Pereira, have the floor Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u135	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has raised a number of issues that are very important for the sustainability of social security. However, I would like to reinforce, in particular, the Government's intention to put the debate, in the social partners and in the Assembly of the Republic, a policy of enlargement of the contribution base relevant to social security, without, of course, considering that wages continue to be a fundamental part of the construction of a fair social security system. For this reason, the words he mentioned when he spoke on the revalorization of work, such as through an ambitious but rigorous policy of growth of the national minimum wage, are also important. There, yes, we are improving the sustainability of social security. Mr Soares, I share your view and would like to remind the House of what has just said: there are sufficient instruments, either in the Fund for Financial Stabilization of Social Security - which is, in fact, accompanied by an advisory council where the social partners who will also follow these operations are present - or at the bottom to be created, to ensure that the implementation of these funds is prudent. Mrs Sandra Pereira brought back here again — my compliments quickly passed — demagogy and ignorance. [[PSD protests.]] Why the demagogy, Your Honor? Because anyone who talks about the application of social security funds without knowing how they were applied over these years is revealing a huge ignorance. Or do you think that social security funds have not been applied to companies, real estate, public debt from other countries and Portuguese public debt? Are there any risks in any of these investments? Oh, my God! Is this all you've got at risk, Your Honor? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, and it was really necessary to make a drawing, I would like to tell you that you have failed because, when you tried to say that 1400 million euros of the Stabilisation Fund would be used, you did not take care to read the words below—for those who want to do demagogy, the small letters are always difficult to read! — because what is written is « active amounts and rehabilitation to be carried out over 10 years». It is the whole fund and not the participation of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund. This is clear as water! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u136	Are you kidding? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u137	Sir, I ask you again to take into account...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u138	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr. Minister finish. I would ask you to take a few moments to hear the Minister answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u139	Mr. Leader of the PSD parliamentary board, I don't usually play when I'm discussing politics. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u140	But it seems!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u141	You, and you in particular, shook a picture, but shook the wrong frame. The framework that you have touched before the chambers was not about the application of funds from the Stabilisation Fund but about the rehabilitation fund to be set up. The honourable Member did not realize this, it was too fast to shake the picture and he did not think enough. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would just like to say, Mrs Sandra Pereira, in conclusion, that the comments you have made about the municipal chambers are utterly unfounded. The honourable Member did not even take care to verify that at the presentation session of this Fund there was neither Mr. President of the Lisbon Chamber nor the former President of the Lisbon Chamber, but he was the President of the Coimbra Chamber, the President of the Port Chamber and the President of the Board of Visau. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, these comments, frankly, do not suit you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u142	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u143	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u144	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u145	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u146	I ask you to distribute — and could be any other — a news from the Business Journal of 6 April 2016, in which you can read the following: « António Costa has concluded that the new fund will be fed by EUR 1400 million from the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u147	So, who are you kidding, Minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u148	Now, Mr Social Security has spent time calling us ignorant and has not yet been able to explain why from 1400 million to 500 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u149	Mr President, please make this document available to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u150	Minister, is that what? You should apologize or say you were wrong. It was better to say it than to be teaching people how things are, and they are not true.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u151	Mr President, please send this document to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u152	I will, Mr. President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u153	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the stage of the talks. The first inscription that the Bureau registers is that of Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD today brings to the debate a very important issue for the country and on which they are convened, as they have seen during this afternoon, very different options and which, perhaps, have never been so notorious. I congratulate the PSD for having scheduled this inquiry to the government, which allowed the country to report and deny propaganda, removing the only strategy that the PSD and the CDS have had, which is the strategy of fear. Today's debate is on the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund and not on the stability fund, as was required. Stability is what this government and the majority of them confer on the country, Mr. Members, but we realized that they were referring to the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund, the FEFSS. The Fund was set up at the end of the 1980s to ensure a financial cushion allowing the payment of pensions for a minimum period. The projections in the annex to the State Budget for this year indicate that this Fund has not been exhausted in the coming decades, even with an increase in social expenditure, involving diversification of investment sources and a reduction in the risks to social security. So this afternoon's debate has been and must continue to be a debate on the risks to social security. And what risks are those, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? They are essentially four risks. Firstly, the risk of quality and quantity of employment. We can call this a risk of sustainability. Without high-quality, well-remunerated employment, pressures on the social security system are increasing. One of the main enemies of sustainability is the level of unemployment and emigration, as well as the economic environment hostile to the creation of new jobs, and that was the choice of the former PSD/CDS Government. You have promoted internal shock and wage devaluation which has led to increased unemployment, mass emigration, the breakdown of social security contributions and the overburdening of social security expenditure. This has been the result of your budgetary and economic policy. Between 2012 and 2015, we had an increase in expenditure of EUR 915 million with unemployment benefits while at the same time there was a breakdown in the revenue of social security contributions over EUR 1200 million. It is not necessary to invoke Divine Providence, as the PSD here has done, to realize the absolute imbalance of the policy that was followed by the right over the past few years. This was the result of the years when the Government of the Internal Troika imposed its doctrine. The risk of sustainability can only be affected to the right, but it is a risk that is far away today. It is only important to know whether the right insists on the options it has taken over the past few years. If you really want to talk about risks, there are still more risks to list. I speak now of a second risk that lies in the concentration of sources to which the Fund is exposed, and it has never been as concentrationary as during the PSD/CDS government. I assume the ladies. Members know what they have been doing during your governance, but this debate is a good memory exercise. I am reading a news from 2013 : ‘Social security fund extends the 90 % debt purchase limit’ and... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... « Government sends the Institute of Management to replace the assets it had for Portuguese public debt », and the results of this change will be assessed at the end of 2015. And by the end of 2015, public debt has already represented 81 % of the Stabilisation Fund ; the exposure of the Stabilisation Fund to national debt has risen 30 percentage points since 2011 during your governance. With the options of the current government, this risk is far away and we are working for diversification. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can continue to talk about risks. There is a third risk, which is the result of the breach of trust, the breach of contract with pensioners, the unacceptable cuts in pensions that were made by the previous government, endangering the social security contract with all Portuguese. when deciding to cut pensions already allocated, the previous government insisted on violating a trust agreement with hundreds of thousands of pensioners and resumed the attack on the Constitution, feeding an unpredictability climate in the accounts of those who entrusted the State with their reforms, and fed an institutional conflict climate that stigmatized a generation group. This risk is also far away today, but it was not until very long ago. It would therefore be important for the right, in this debate, to clarify here today, that the new cut of EUR 600 million in payment pensions which it had already planned for this year in the stability plan which it delivered in Brussels in April 2015 remains as an option for social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In view of the fact that this is a debate on risks, I have been prepared for the risk that is happening to you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not true. I therefore brought Table II.7, which is on page 42 of your Stability Programme, where you can see a cut of EUR 600 million in pensions already in force this year. The impact of EUR 600 million less on pensions is detailed in the social benefits category, which includes pension expenditure. We know that your plan is always plan C, which is to cut. It's the only plan they know for social security. This third risk is far away, but they may take advantage of the time of this debate to clarify the country if, when challenging the Socialist Party for a social security reform, they are talking about cuts, if they are talking about cuts about who has cut a whole life, if they are talking about cuts about who has worked, if they are talking about cuts about who has believed in the state, if they are talking about cuts about who is in a more fragile age. To that end, the PSD and the CDS do not even count on the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A fourth and final risk is the ideological risk of those who do not believe in public and universal social security and want to hand it over to private pension funds. The PSD and CDS did not hide it, defended the progressive privatization of social security with the introduction of the ceiling. under a false freedom of choice, the right wants to transform a system that is public, that is universal, that is mandatory, that is intergenerational in a kind of individual savings account, optional for the richest, similar to a term deposit. It happens that this means the failure of the public system and the institutionalization of dualization based on income and not on any supposed individual freedom that leaves the poor on the roadside. This is a radical and adventurous proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The optional discounts for higher wages that you proposed involved a rumb over EUR 2000 million per year, delivering them to private pension funds while creating a kind of subsystem for the poor, caretaker and decapitalized. This risk is also far away today, but it would be important to see whether the right holds this proposal or whether it no longer has the courage to present to the new world of social-democracy « so-so-so». Continuing the literary references of the PSD Member : social-democracy, whether or not, here is the question they have been responding to. There is no social-democracy, there is no Christian democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, I conclude: sustainability, concentration, confidence breakdown, ideological attack, when we talk about all these risks, we conclude that the greatest risk is even in the vision and options of the right to social security, which not only decapitalize it and weaken it as they do based on a very precise ideological orientation of implosion of the system as we know it. That is not the Socialist Party's option, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. If they want to talk about risks, if they want to continue to talk about risks to social security, they can start by assessing and punishing themselves for the risks they have brought to social security during your governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u155	As the Bureau does not record the registration of any Member to request clarification, Mr Filipe Lobo d'Ávila, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The sustainability of social security is the most serious problem, in terms of funding, with which the State faces. It is an issue of indisputable importance, indeed, that is of the utmost importance, as Mr Minister has said here. Many diagnoses have been made, many reports and white books have been produced, but the problem remains. To ignore this problem is to condemn the financing of the social state, it is to take the risk of mortgageting the future payment of pensions. To ignore this problem is not to respect the basic principle of public trust in the state, the commitment with the pensioners that Mr Minister speaks of, especially those who over the decades have been the guarantors of the sustainability of social security. To ignore this problem is to have no answer for those who will start discounting for social security tomorrow and who will even begin to want to build their legitimate right to reform tomorrow. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem exists and in the CDS, whether in government or opposition, we always demonstrate our willingness to hold a serious, rigorous and necessary debate on this reform. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The debate is timely, the problem exists and the former Minister of Teixeira Finance of the Saints said — and I quote — “Social security will not be able to pay due pensions within 10 to 15 years”. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the problem exists and is now reaffirmed by the Council itself when it alerts us to imbalances in the social security system. The recently published report of the Public Finance Council on 2015, despite stressing the favourable evolution of the labour market and the recovery of the revenue from contributions to levels prior to the crisis, shows that the social security system remains deficient. The deficit increased from EUR 1,022 million in 2011 to EUR 447 million in 2015 in an obvious improvement, but in any case this continues to mean that social security contributions and contributions are not sufficient to cover expenditure on pension payments. We are told by the Council of Public Finance that, and I quote, "the reduction of imbalances in the social security system is notable in the evolution of the last two years, but it is clear that the system is still far from balanced. Measures that strengthen the recovery of the welfare system are therefore a priority for the system to return to a path of sustainable balance. Do not keep on seeking. ” A priority, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a priority that hardly deserves a word in the recent National Reform Plan presented by the Government. A priority that cannot be summed up in a set of more or less happy, completely empty and without any concrete translation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that the problem of sustainability of social security deserves an extended and cross-cutting debate and that it relates to such differentiated aspects as increasing the average life expectancy, decreasing birth rates, behaviours and economic crises, productivity levels or even increasing convergence between pensioners and contributors. In 2014, the expenditure on the payment of pensions under the general scheme represented 99, 1 % of all contributions received by social security. If we took into account only the part intended for the payment of pensions, the pension expenditure already represented 127 % in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem exists and is objective. We have a duty not to ignore it, because the problem exists. There is political will to face this debate with all, political parties and social partners.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u158	It is a principle of confidence in the present, but it is also a question of the confidence we want to build for the future. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, there is no social contract in bankruptcy; there is no social contract if one of the parties is unable to fulfil its obligations. There is no need for great designs to realize this harsh reality. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] in the CDS-PP we are available for this debate on sustainability, on sources of funding, on the extension of the contribution base: whether by economy, productivity, combating fraud or increasing birth. But I have already told you that it does not count on the CDS for the use of the Social Security Stabilisation Fund for investments in urban rehabilitation, either in the proportion of Mr. Prime Minister's political announcement or in the extent of the effective possibility that Mr. Minister for Social Security here tells us, without any studies demonstrating the return and profitability of these same investments. The Fund is not from the State, it is from pensioners and future pensioners. And it is because of all of them that this debate can only be done. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u159	The Bureau does not make any request for clarification to the honourable Member, so we move on to the next intervention. Mr. Environment Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We think it is consensual the need to rehabilitate our urban building. It says the National Habitat Strategy, approved by the previous Government, which, and I quote, "is urgently a bet on urban regeneration, which goes by repopulating the old centers, regaining its building, revitalizing its economic activities and rejuvenating its population. » We have no reason to disagree with this assertion. We also believe that the State should set an example with its public heritage and that the dynamic failures of rehabilitation — less than 2,500 fires in 2015 — imply the need for a public policy complementary to market mechanisms, resulting in this action a set of advantages. First, the appreciation of existing heritage; second, the contribution to denser cities with advantages to network management; third, the higher energy efficiency of seismic resistance of buildings and fourth, the attraction of housing activity to city centers. Let us focus on this last point of attraction, and evaluate what is happening. It is virtually restricted to the historical centres of Lisbon and Porto the recent and growing phenomenon of rehabilitation of the building. Much of this rehabilitation is not intended for permanent housing, is generated only by the real estate market and has an almost exclusively tourist impulse. For housing, most of the time for sale, luxury projects arise, as announced for the Avenida dos Aliados, in Porto, last weekend. Not being the very precise sources of information, from March 2015 to March 2016, the offer on the Airbnb website almost doubled in the city of Lisbon. We are pleased to see the rehabilitation phenomenon to which we are witnessing a great concern about the risk of abandonment of the inhabitants of the city centre and, more importantly, the impossibility of recovering new inhabitants from the middle class. in the rest of the territory, this rehabilitation dynamic is incipient, being indicated by INE, LNEC and AICCOPN the existence of more than one million buildings with need for recovery and an investment estimate for the country — 2014 figures — in order of 38 million euros, of which almost 17 for deep interventions. The Government programme therefore includes the creation of a public policy that promotes the repopulation of cities with middle-class inhabitants and young families, rehabilitating buildings of the State, the authorities and the third sector, backed by a portion of the funds of the Social Security Stabilization Fund. For June, it is planned to adopt a resolution of the Council of Ministers which will define the rules of the Fund rigorously and make public and during the second half of the year it will be constituted and registered with the CMM. The National Building Rehabilitation Fund will be a special real estate investment fund, closed, geared to real estate rehabilitation and rent promotion. Yes, there are already other support for urban rehabilitation, some of them including housing. For example, the Resettlement to Arrendar, still with little financial expression, is one of them and the IFRU 2020 too, but with a very limited geography to the most noble areas of the cities and we ourselves have in preparation the Casa Efficient programme, which will allow interventions to share the plot. But these programmes do not guarantee the desired return to the centre, democratically, by a large number of families. For this reason we are finalizing the National Building Rehabilitation Fund, which is not intended for social housing, in which social security will not make exactly an investment but an asset exchange, which will have a public management through Fundiesta, and is intended essentially, and in the first phase exclusively to public buildings, where each project will be evaluated individually and will be rejected if it does not have the profitability required by the Fund, which will be supervised by the CMM. in buildings to be rehabilitated, at least 60 % of the rehabilitated area shall be intended for housing rental, to make available at dishonest prices of the speculative bubble effect recorded in the centre of the largest cities mainly motivated by the phenomenon of local housing. The estimated investment will, of course, always be linked to demand, with EUR 1.4 billion over 10 years, to be carried out through entry into real estate and cash. A total of 1 million square meters are estimated to be rehabilitated, corresponding to about 7,500 fires. Social security participation cannot exceed 33 % of the value of the Fund — it is a rule of the CMM itself. In other words, with full success, the exchange of assets will be around EUR 500 million. The Fund will be an umbrella fund with subfunds made up each year and may also be withdrawn annually. The principles of intervention are investment profitability, strong risk control, transparency, reporting rigor and investor protection. I have already said that the forecast of the creation of the Fund is part of the Government programme, but essentially we feel that we are obliged to balance the functions of the city the existence of a public policy instrument which, as we know, is always preceded by a still process in order to intervene in favour of a greater presence and diversity of residents in urban centres. I repeat: in the large cities it seems that the erosion period of the building has been stagnated. I confess that, without current numbers, we fear that rehabilitation to which we witness will contribute, with the purposes that it closes and which are essentially touristic, to make it even more difficult to live in the city centers. We must be able to act and have instruments to intervene and assist the authorities. And this fund is decisive at two levels: on the one hand, to recover housing heritage, with greater energy efficiency, in areas where there is no search or where there is no search and there is no supply, and on the other hand, many of these cases are not available; on the other hand, to act with equal purpose in urban territories where there is a growing rehabilitation that does not, on the contrary, contribute to the attraction of permanent inhabitants. With this Fund we will create wealth and employment and we will directly value public heritage, contributing decisively to the construction of more just and sustainable cities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u161	Mr. Minister has a request for clarification, Mr. Filipe Lobo D’Ávila, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u162	Mr President, Minister, I confess that I had some expectation as to what the Minister could come here today. That is why we have been listening carefully to him, until we were expecting him to come here to say what he said a month ago, when he announced the new Government Programme for Urban Rehabilitation, in which he basically made an investment announcement of EUR 1 400 million from social security funds. So, Minister, the question I had to ask you is very simple, going to the meeting of the government's own communiqué on its official page. This communiqué says the following, and I will read: « by representing an investment of EUR 1 400 million from the Financial Stability Fund for Social Security, it will have to be used with all guarantees of profitability and very low risk since we are talking about a share of the money that guarantees our reforms. ' — and this underlined Mr Matos Fernandes. Mr. Minister, this is on the government page, it is an official communiqué. As such, the questions I have to ask you, as I said, are simple: what has changed from April 6 to May 4? Who's right, after all? Is it the official communication, contained in the Government's communiqué, or is it Mr Social Security Minister, who came here today to announce a reduction in the initial intention of Mr Prime Minister and Mr Environment Minister? After all, who's right? I now wonder whether you also agree with what the Minister for Social Security has said here. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u163	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Minister of the Environment, you said that at least 60 % of the rehabilitated area will be devoted to renting for permanent housing, to be made available under conditions that allow access to the middle class, with a so-called accessible income. Mr Minister, once and for all, is he able to tell us, after all, what is that of affordable income, how is it calculated and what formula is available for that purpose? By the way, Minister, what is the middle class for the government and the PS? Is it who wins 14 000 euros / year, in the version of Andrade Rock, State Secretary for Tax Affairs, or is it who wins 40 000 euros / year in the version of Fernando Medina, President of the City Council of Lisbon? Mr Minister, whether or not you agree, Ex.a, that one thing is the State to practice reduced incomes to ensure the right of housing to which it has no means — and for this there is social lease—, another completely different thing is to practice those affordable incomes that exceed the constitutional obligation of the State. Already, Minister, you and the Government are aware that, acting in this way, they are incuring the State in unfair competition? And what in this way also discouraged the recovery of the building by the private? Is the Government aware that in Portugal there are 300 000 fires for sale and 1 000 000 fires for rent?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u165	Alone! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u166	A month and two days later, Mr Minister never answered any of these questions. You can still do so until the end of this debate, but I do not honestly believe that you will. But there is one thing we would like to say, Minister: that urban rehabilitation is, in fact, a crucial and important issue for us. in the past, we have done everything in this direction and have created an appropriate instrument for this purpose, which is the financial instrument for urban rehabilitation, which, as you know, had an allocation of EUR 3000 million — well notice, EUR 3000 million — leveraged with European funds, private banking and the Investment Bank. Therefore, Minister, the government was not required to risk — nor should it do — EUR 500 million, which is pensioners' and pensioners' money. Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the big party that went to School Park, the government is preparing to move forward with another great party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u167	It's just parties!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u168	As long as the party lasts—and we know that there are those who will profit from this great party—the pensioners, the present and those of the future will all be real estate investors. But when the party ends, and the party ends one day, the bill will arrive. And you know who's gonna pay for it, Minister? They are the present and future pensioners. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u170	In reply, Mr Minister for the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, I don’t know how I will explain any more, but I will repeat what the values are here. 10 % of the Social Security Stabilisation Fund is EUR 1400 million. The Fund is designed to be able to carry on its activities for 10 years. The National Building Rehabilitation Fund has, in fact, a number, i.e. the allocation it is associated with and which consists of two thirds of heritage and one third of money, which comes from the Social Security Stabilization Fund and which is EUR 1400 million. In other words, it is substantially one third of the EUR 1400 million that are available that will contribute to this fund. Furthermore, CMVM does not allow a real estate fund, in this particular case, at least, to have in its financial component more than one third of the total value. It seems to me that this is absolutely clear and I cannot even understand where the doubt is.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u172	That's not what you're saying! You have to fix this.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u173	On what is the IFRU (Financial Instrument for Urban Rehabilitation and Revitalization), of which I have already spoken, and which Mr. Democratic Social Party Member says he has EUR 3000 million, I must say that I do not know where he has managed the EUR 3000 million. It is clear that there is a figure of EUR 250 million — and it is written by VV. Ex.as — to make investments, and very well, in the ARU ( Urban Rehabilitation Areas) which are in the historical centres of the cities, in the coastal areas and in the requalification of degraded industrial areas. These 250 million add up to 140 of the EIB's loan and believe that the financial vehicles will be read, the bank will be interested in managing this same fund, it will multiply by two and we will be able to reach 800 million euros. Let me also tell you that you have done the thing so well or so bad that of the 250 million euros, through the PEDU ( Strategic Plan for Urban Development ), the authorities have taken advantage of no more than 56 million. That is why I assure you that we will do everything we can to ensure that this value goes as far as possible, but we will be far away from EUR 800 million. Of the 250 million, there is no doubt, Mr President: 40 million are in the SEUR PO and the other 210 million are in the four regional operational programmes, plus the Azores and Madeira. There is no doubt about that. So, concluding... [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] ...I apologize for your greatest apology, but I have no doubt about it. with regard to, and to conclude, the value of affordable income, I think that once and for all it is necessary to realize—and it has become clear, in spite of everything, in this request for clarification—that we are not talking about social housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u174	That's where we all agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u175	I repeat, we are not talking about social housing. And, in fact, we are very concerned about what is happening in the centres of the cities of Lisbon and Porto and about real estate speculation, or rather, about the huge price rise — they believe that I know what I'm talking about, because I had to rent a house in Lisbon to be able to live here — these prices that have no relation to what the market should be. It therefore seems essential to us to have a public policy to intervene in order to ensure that there is an offer of housing for rent at prices that are dishonored by this effect of real estate bubble. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u176	To speak, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the Fund for Financial Stabilization of Social Security, we have already said here that we believe that it should be used with extreme care, that investment should be made by securing a guaranteed return and that if it is used to invest in housing accessible to workers, for social purposes and objectives, capable of creating jobs and if it is not used for speculation and promoting real estate funds, then it can certainly be a good idea. But I would like to go to the substantive debate on the sustainability of social security. We know that the difficulties of social security do not come from now on and that the reforms of recent years, which have been struck by the European guidelines, have, in our view, been misguided, through the reduction of future pensions, the consecration of a sustainability factor that has been penalized by pensioners and the increase in retirement age. The European Commission's pressure to turn social security into a business delivered to financial markets is, of course, applauded with excitement by the PSD and the CDS-PP but is not a viable or correct path. It is worth recalling that this set of reforms has been supported by a set of myths that aim to present themselves as unquestionable truths and even as indisputable assumptions of the debate but that they are real techniques of obscuring reality that need to be denied. Firstly: contrary to what these myths say, there is money for pensions and the system is not at an imminent risk. The social security system is superavitary, it has always been and so is today. [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] In 2015, contributions and contributions amounted to EUR 18 808 million and the total expenditure of the social security system in sickness, parenthood, unemployment, death and old age, disability and survival pensions amounted to EUR 17 803 million, i.e. less than 1000 million than is collected in contributions and contributions. Secondly, another myth that needs to be undone is that in Portugal social security does not spend too much. Expenditure on social security as a percentage of GDP in Portugal is lower than the average of the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u178	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u179	And the capitalization of social benefits also has values substantially lower than the European average. The third myth is that social contributions are not an obstacle to employment and growth, they are the main source of funding for the system. Therefore, the reduction of these contributions, the reduction of TSU and wages is not a way to create jobs. It is in the commitment to innovation, the quality of employment, the financing of the economy, the dynamisation of the internal market, the rise of wages, that we will make a contribution to the sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u180	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u181	In conclusion, Mr President, with the following: the problem of social security is not a problem of demographic or ageing, it is an economic problem and it is a political problem. So if we want to solve this, we discuss what is important: job creation, diversification of sources of social security financing, combating precariousness to bring more people into the system, combating avoidance and non-compliance with social contributions. That is the debate that is worth making and that is the solution that we need to take forward. It is these principles and those assumptions that the left has an obligation to bring to this debate. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u182	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Public, universal and solidarity social security is one of the main achievements of 25 April, a right enshrined in the Constitution and a central element in the lives of Portuguese people. for more than 40 years, social security has been present, and is present in the course of life of the Portuguese, either in the worst moments, such as unemployment, disease or poverty, either in times of greater happiness, while support at the time of birth of a child, fulfilling the rights of motherhood and paternity, i.e., in the follow-up of old age, ensuring a reform that allows the deserving tranquility and dignity after a life of work and contributions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP, the fundamental role of social security in ensuring conditions of progress and social justice is unquestionable. however, over the past few years, social protection mechanisms have been severely degraded in a particularly serious way in the four years of governance of the PSD and the CDS-PP, reaching historical minimums. At the same time, announcements of bankruptcy and financial sustainability of social security have been perpetuated. And the disease of the so-called unsustainability was increased the age of the reform, the sustainability factor was introduced, unacceptable cuts were made in the family allowance, the unemployment allowance, among other social benefits, and in the pensions of those who discounted an entire life.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u184	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u185	The attack on social security carried out in the last four years by the governance of PSD and CDS-PP, which, in fact, wanted to impose a cut of 600 million euros,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u186	Here comes that again!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u187	... he intended, yes, to weaken social security in order to promote pension funds or other financial applications, thus favouring the great economic and financial interests, which, in fact, have always seen social security as a desirable source of business. And weakened social security would guarantee the necessary conditions to profit from workers' contributions. contrary to what was intended to be believed, the threat to social security is not the increase of average life expectancy or reforms and social benefits. The problem is not demographic, it is, yes, an economic problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u188	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u189	The first and main threat is the policy that promotes an economic model based on low wages, using unemployment and work precariousness as essential tools for achieving it, a reality well present in our country, especially by the hands of the PSD Government and the CDS-PP. This threat is coupled with the misuse of the social security system's funds, the exemptions, reductions and benefits attributed under the TSU, the loss of debt to employers on a path to weakening social security that is imposed to reverse. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not ignore or deny that social security faces challenges regarding the future. But we know, yes, that social security has a future and that, in order to ensure robust and sound social security, maintaining its public character, solidarity and universality, it is important to act in combating unemployment and precariousness, promoting the creation of employment with rights, valuing and increasing wages, a way of raising the living conditions of workers but also strengthening the financing of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u190	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u191	It is important to combat fraud, avoidance and debt to social security as well as its regime of prescriptions. It is important to combat the misuse of social security security funds effectively, as well as to take action to diversify sources of social security financing. Social security is the workers and therefore the removal of PSD and CDS-PP from the government, as a result of the tireless struggle of workers and the Portuguese people for four years, is also a victory for public social security. The commitment we have made today, and which we have always taken, is with the workers, is in the defence of public, universal and solidarity social security, in a path of progress and social justice. That is our fight and it is the struggle that we will continue to wage. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u192	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the period for the end of the debate. For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on 4 April, the Prime Minister was clear and I will quote the following words, slowly, in the form of a drawing: « to create a new segment in the market, the Government will invest EUR 1400 million in the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund in the recovery of wealth by extending the sources of social security financing ». I read slowly and I think we all understand the scope of the Prime Minister's announcement. A month later, the Government retreats and the Minister of Social Security rejects the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u194	And the Minister for the Environment too!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u195	It must even be recalled that there was no reason to have doubts about the Prime Minister's statement, because already in the election campaign it was clear and crystalline when he said he was going to use 10 % of the Fund value, which is EUR 14 billion. Where is the doubt, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u196	It's in the regulation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u197	After all, it seems that it is only 500 million euros. The mistake is the same, but the truth is today unaffirmable: lightness. Lightness of the Government, Lightness of the Prime Minister, Lightness of the Socialist Party and its electoral promises and Lightness of the'management', it is true! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Some say it's "management", but it works.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u198	It's working!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u199	It works to melt public money and works to leave invoices for those who come to pay. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The chief has slightly promised and the government and the majority who support it have been suffering for six months because they want to save the face of the government leader. Today, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has demonstrated a sense of security that this government and this majority want to play with taxpayers and pensioners' money. It has shown that this Government and this majority do not want a serious debate on the sustainability of social security. It has shown that this government and this majority are, as it were, 'getting bonds', have no strategy or policy for housing, rehabilitation and renting and do not know how to unstep the boot of the Prime Minister's hasty promise. Whatever value, the idea of financing the National Building Rehabilitation Fund with the money of the Social Security Stabilisation Fund is an unforgivable sin.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u200	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u201	Throw it into real estate speculation is unwise, risky and wrong. To do so without criteria and without viability is lightness, it is the return of the party, it is the return of the socialist politics of the cement, which is today a cement added to the blogtic and communist ingredients.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u202	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u203	This proposal is the new version of the megalomania of airports, TGVs, Faustose schools. The debate required another seriousity of the majority. The debate deserved less demagogy and more maturity. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The PS, the Left Block, and the PCP and the Government, say to pass, have been waving with the dad of the 600 million in pensions for a long time (over a year). I think this fallacy is already more than clear. Only the demagogues and voters insist on this pope. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal needs strategy in housing policies, urban rehabilitation, a rental market. The previous government left laws, left regulations, left money and left sources of funding to implement these programmes, but Portugal also needs sustainability and stability in its pension system. of which Portugal needs no confusion, of lightness, of heavy bills for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u204	And unconstitutional budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u205	How can the Government expect secure financial return when investing in an area exhausted by oversupply: 300 000 fires available for sale and one million fires available for rent? Oh, my God! How can the government expect profitability in the investment made if, at the same time, it intends to create an affordable income regime, that means what it means? How can the Government seek to dynamize the rehabilitation sector by restricting this Fund to the state heritage? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u206	Ah! I told you everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u207	Today, we did not need a general government. We did not need a government concerned to hide the irresponsibility of the electoral whim of its head.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u208	Are you talking about Banif yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u209	Mrs. Ministers, we needed clarity and not opacity. Today, the ladies and gentlemen. Ministers came here to discredit the Prime Minister. You're all right. It was partial, but it was crystalline. The Prime Minister announced, with a pump, 1400 million,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u210	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u211	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, the Prime Minister announced, with a pump, 1400 million and the Mrs. Ministers have come to correct it and say it is only EUR 500 million. It was partial, but I think the shame is assumed. That's why I'm launching a challenge, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers : they fully assume what is underlying this irresponsibility, they give up this irresponsibility. The Portuguese and the Portuguese of today and tomorrow will surely thank the Government for this gesture. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u212	To close the debate, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the end of this debate there is something that is very clear: the PSD does not know what is coming. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] The PSD does not know what comes and it is easy to explain, because so quickly it says that it refuses an investment from the Stabilisation Fund in a speculative area, as we have heard now, when it is not, as I said recently that it refuses an investment in social income because they are never paid. [[PSD protests.]] So quickly it says that urban rehabilitation is a key area of national priorities. However, soon thereafter he says no, that there are one million more fires, forgetting that a large part of this million fires need rehabilitation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] PSD doesn't know what you mean! Above all, mask this debate with the big issue of numbers. But the gentlemen. Are you suggesting that we not do our job seriously? That we do not study, that we do not programme, that we do not use resources properly? Is that what they criticize us? That criticism does not take, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. And then they come to talk about this issue about the sustainability of social security. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when you want to discuss seriously the sustainability of social security, you have to say whether or not you have abandoned the proposal to create a sustainable contribution... No, I'm not talking about 400 million, I mean 600 million, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u214	Ah! I even got scared!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u215	I am talking about those 480 million, if the memory fails me, which you have sent as a proposal to the Constitutional Court. So it wasn't a serious proposal? Didn't you want to cut paid pensions as a fundamental instrument for the sustainability of social security? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u216	About 500 million, nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u217	If they didn't want to, they pretended very well that they really wanted to. If they don't want it now, say it. Say it and maybe we can discuss it. And now, if we talk about the sustainability of social security, other things need to be clarified: perhaps the honourable Members. Do Members keep the proposal, which over the years has been doing, never achieving, to ceiling social security to open the door to the pension market? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Have they ever left that idea, or are they keeping it? If they keep it, why did they not realize it when they were in the government — the one they were now or a few years ago, which had the same alliance — in the Government Programme, which introduced, in the social security law, ceilings, which were never able to achieve? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] About sustainability of social security, we heard many ideas, but no action by the PSD. And come and tell us about the Social Security Stabilisation Fund! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I was trying not to remind you of what I am going to say, but — justice is done! — this Fund was set up by a PSD Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u218	In 1989!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u219	And at the moment or shortly after creating this Fund, in resolution of the Council of Ministers, the PSD Government approves that this Fund buys a hospital for mercy. There is a great application, with great profitability, for the future of social security! [[P.S.'s applause.]] After this, transfers to the Stabilisation Fund by the PSD governments, zero! Repeat: zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u220	Shame! The gentlemen should be so ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u221	Those who actually built the Social Security Stabilization Fund were governments of the Socialist Party, 90% of the transfers to the Fund were the responsibility of governments of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Is it the Socialist Party that has placed in the law the obligation of transfers to the Social Security Stabilisation Fund and you are accusing us of questioning a fund that is part of our political heritage in the defence of social security? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Excuse us, they do not teach us any lessons about the Social Security Stabilization Fund, which you made 'zero' after it was set up! As we have always defended, we will defend the sustainability of social security. We are open to all discussions. We will always use the Social Security Stabilization Fund in measures that serve the interests of Portugal and the interests of social security. It seems that you have found that there are financial applications that are not at risk and that can be done by the Fund and that there are others, in urban rehabilitation, that you first consider very important and then say that they are not so much anymore and say "no there! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u222	Not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u223	I can only speculate:...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u224	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u225	...or you are just a political game or you regret not having the ability to use the Social Security Stabilisation Fund at the service of Portugal and the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] They did not give a single serious argument about strict, clear, prudent and controlled use of the Social Security Stabilisation Fund. When the Mrs. Members of the opposition want to discuss the sustainability of social security, we will be here, but I tell you, to cut pension payments, no; to ceiling social security, no! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u226	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u227	I will finish, Mr. President. And we do not just say that because that is not our political line. We say this because the Portuguese do not want this adventure, that, yes, with unthinkable consequences for the future of social protection in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We're not going that way because the Portuguese have already said they don't want it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u228	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. Ms. Secretary Emília Santos will report on the file she has entered the Bureau in the meantime. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and the following initiatives have been admitted: draft resolution No 300 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of the Community legal framework in order to increase transparency in financial transactions ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission and draft deliberation No 8 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Resolution No 1 - PL / 2016 of 19 January ( Composition of delegations to international parliamentary organizations ) ( President of the HR ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-04.u230	I am going to announce the agenda for tomorrow's meeting, whose agenda will be, by marking the CDS-PP, a debate on demography, birth and family, with the general appreciation of the projects of lein.o 189 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Change the IRS Code in order to restore the family quota, 190 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Benefits within IRC to companies promoting family responsible behaviour, 191 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code, strengthening the legal protection of prohibited or disabled heirs, 192 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code, which establishes the supplementary application of the separation property regime, 193 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Procedures at 11. the amendment to Decree-Law No 176 / 2003 of 2 August, amended and republished by Decree-Law No 133 / 2012 of 27 June, amends the disability bonus in the family allowance, 194 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Procedures at 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, which approves the Labour Code, extends the enjoyment of the supplementary parental leave and the leave for assistance to grandparents, 195 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Procedures at 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, amends the exclusive parental leave of the father, 196 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Procedures at 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, which approves the Labour Code, increases the duration of the initial parental leave from the third child, 197 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Procedures at 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, which approves the Labour Code, creates the prenatal parental leave, 198 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Procedures at 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, which approves the Labour Code, increases the duration of the initial parental leave for 210 days, 199 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Procedures at 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, which approves the Labour Code, establishes the dispensation for child care, in place of the allowance for breastfeeding or breastfeeding, 200 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extension of the scope of the social valleys, 201 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — The fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 amends the amounts of parental allowances and creates prenatal parental allowance and parental allowance for premature birth and 202 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Procedures at 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, which approves the Labour Code, creates the parental leave for premature birth. Together with those diplomas, the draft resolutions 237 / XIII ( 1 ) will be appreciated. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government increase from three to five cycles of assisted drug processing treatments, shared by the National Health Service ( CDS-PP ), 281 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Integrated measures to encourage birth ( CFP ), 286 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create the guarantee plan for disabled children and young people ( CDS-PP ), 287 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create an incentive for a culture of corporate accountability ( CDS-PP ), 288 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish the Family Portal and a plan for its disclosure ( CDS-PP ), 289 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Flexibility of daycare hours through social security cooperation agreements, incentives to be established by companies and promotion of agreements between childcare establishments and employers ( CDS-PP ), 290 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee for monitoring initiatives on family and birth ( CDS-PP ), 291 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate telework ( CDS-PP ), 292 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consensual review of the school calendar ( CDS-PP ), 293 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrate 31 May as the National Day of the Brothers ( CDS-PP ), 294 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure and promote differentiation in access to housing and support to assign dependants and spouses to all existing programmes or to create ( CDS-PP ), 295 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend the legal regime for access to financial support Port 65 — Young people's lease ( Port 65 ) ( CDS-PP ) and 296 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Parentality protection measures ( BE ). At the end of the debate, if any, these diplomas will be voted on. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 38 minutes.]]
