ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Our agenda has as its sole point interpellation No 7/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — On disability policies ( BE ). I remember that, at the end of the debate, there will be electoral votes. Therefore, in order to intervene in the opening of the appeal, Mr Jorge Falcato Simões has the floor. [[At the moment, Mr. Jorge Falcato Simões (BE) went to the rostrum, moving in wheelchairs, and used for the first time elevator platforms for disabled engines, having recorded a small incident.]] [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the small incident that just took place with the lifting platforms, I would like to point out this symbolic moment, which is of greatest importance to our Parliament. We have just contributed to overcoming another architectural barrier and, with this, to ensure that, all different, all equal, we can fully assume the rights of our citizenship. May the example of overcoming the architectural barrier that has just taken place serve the other public entities in our country and also private entities as an incentive for all of us to compete in such a way as to ensure the full exercise of rights, without discrimination of any kind, to all citizens. Well done, Mr. Jorge Falcato. His example, his determination and his obstinacy are an example for all the Members of this House. [[General applause.]] Mr President, it is with great pleasure that I give you the floor to initiate the appeal of the Left Block to the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to greet all disabled people and families who have come to attend this debate. How good it is to be here and how important it is to stay here. It is essential that we become increasingly, more visible, more present, more aware of our rights. Thank you. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PAN and PSD Members.]] To talk about disability is to talk about people, it is to talk about people who are segregated, excluded and discriminated against because they are different from the norm, who survive with poor pensions that seem more like alms and who are mostly dependent on family support, who do not get married because, if they do, they lose the right to pension. They are sterilized girls without their knowledge and much less their consent. They are children and young people who are denied true inclusive education. They are people who are closed at home, without the right to use the cities or who are exhausted from the barrier after the barrier. They are people who can't communicate with the doctor at the emergency hospital, because their first language is the Portuguese Gestal Language. They are people who wait months for a wheelchair to which they are entitled by law or, then, have to resort to the shame of the country's tambourines or charities. It's the blind who give up the chance to have a guide dog because they don't have the food. They are families in which one has to stop working—almost always the woman—to shoulder the responsibilities of the state and care for their children with disabilities 24 hours a day. To talk about disability is to talk about people and families, but also talk about the policies that affect them. And to talk about policies in this area is to see the need to end the care and institutionalization that have so much undermined the emancipation and social inclusion of people with disabilities. Even today, these policies are heirs of the historical and cultural context of strong influence of a Jewish-Christian morals, with the consequent association of charity to disability, plus the monopoly of religious institutions over the centuries in support of the needy, which remained in the various state reforms at the level of public assistance. It should be recalled that the right to public assistance, recognized in the 1911 Constitution, is removed and replaced by the secondaryization of the role of the State in the 1933 Salazarist Constitution, in which the duty of the State was reduced to coordination, stimulation and regulation of private social initiatives. Thus, in the dictatorship, social policies were structured around private initiatives, particularly charitable organizations dependent on the Catholic Church. The development of the welfare state and the recognition by the State of its responsibility to people with far-CL disabilities will be only after the fall of the dictatorial regime in 1974. However, this responsibility has been delegated to families and non-governmental organizations that provide services. Although there has been clear progress, when compared to the previous decades, the barriers that prevent the inclusion and social participation of people with disabilities have not been overcome and we have been unable to break the vicious cycle between disability, poverty and social exclusion. We arrived in 2016 and we know that there are 173 000 persons with disabilities, holders or beneficiaries of social benefits, who on average receive less than €180 per month, that in 2001 the illiteracy rate of persons with disabilities was 37 %, compared to 26, 4 % of the general population, with a large majority only 1. the cycle of basic education. The rate of activity of persons aged 15 years or older in 2011 was 22 % compared to 47, 5 % for the Portuguese population in general. In all companies with 10 or more workers there is a percentage that does not reach 0, 4 % of workers with 60 % or more of disabilities. In the academic year 2013 / 2014 there were 1318 students with special educational needs in higher education. A percentage of 0, 36 % of the student population at this level of education. A recent study carried out in Portugal on the costs added to address the barriers of a non-inclusive organized society estimated that the additional cost of living for family aggregates with disabled people is between €5,100 and €26,300 per year. This is, in very general terms, the situation of people with disabilities. This is the reality that we have to change. [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS Members.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to change this situation we have to do differently than has been done so far. We need policies based on a different view of disability. Policies that recognize that the problem is not in human diversity, but rather in a deeply "debilitating" social organization. It is not the disability that prevents us from participating in life in society, but, yes, the way in which disability is socially built. It is the social, political, physical and psychological barriers created by this society that limit and hinder our life. If we admit, and we have to admit, that we are citizens and citizens of full right, what we have to do is to end all barriers — environmental, cultural and psychological — that prevent us from personal fulfillment, be these barriers, for example, forced institutionalization, for lack of alternatives, or even the school called inclusive that often removes students from the classroom and secretes them in specialized support units. The disability lies in society and in the way it is organized and not in person. This must be the starting point for any policy that respects the rights of people with disabilities, and this must be made clear. Moreover, this is the philosophy that supports the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which this House has approved and which it is obliged to comply with. The departure from the right hand side of the government brought great hope to people with disabilities and their families. The fact that there is a State Secretariat dedicated to the inclusion of disabled people, even above a blind person's head, has increased this hope, but also increased the requirement. We believe that it is possible, with this parliamentary configuration, to initiate new policies that mean a paradigm change. For this amendment it is necessary to make a serious commitment to everything defined in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. A strategy is needed to define the actions, duly scheduled and budgeted, necessary for the implementation of that Convention. We recall that the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in its final observations on the report submitted by the Portuguese Government, requested the submission within 12 months of information on the measures taken in relation to a new national disability strategy which is in accordance with the principles set out in the Convention. This was April 16th. It's been almost six months. She thinks we should hurry up. [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS Members.]] What cannot happen again was what happened in the previous government, which created a committee that should have presented the national strategy for disability by the end of October 2013 2014 / 2020. Four years have passed and we have no strategy. We have already proposed that this strategy include the implementation of plans for inclusion in all ministries providing for the revision of existing legislation, ensuring the inclusion of people with disabilities and meeting their needs. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, while this strategy does not exist, we must move forward with measures that are urgent. People with disabilities and their families have waited too long. When we discuss here the State Budget for this year, Minister Vieira da Silva said—and I quote: "I believe that the steps taken in social policies in regard to disabled people are still insufficient, is the most fragile area of our social protection system. Do not keep on seeking. ” It's still true. The Budget did not bring them any substantial improvement in life, people with disabilities continued in 2016 with social benefits that did not reach half the poverty risk threshold. But the Minister also said: "We have a simple ambition: to make it possible for all people with disabilities to live above the poverty line. Do not keep on seeking. ” The question that arises is this: will all people with disabilities have ensured a decent income from January 2017? Will the single provision really ensure that all disabled people get out of the extreme poverty situation they are in? We need answers. Another key issue for the emancipation of people with disabilities and an important contribution to starting a true policy of deinstitutionalization is the implementation of independent life. The first step was taken with the inclusion in the State Budget, by proposal of the Left Block, of the launch, still this year, of pilot independent life projects, which will have to correspond to some basic principles: direct payments to the disabled person; right of choice of personal assistance by the user; and ensuring the number of hours of personal assistance necessary for all activities of daily life. What we want to know is whether these principles will be assured and when they will open the applications for the implementation of these projects. We want to know when people with disabilities have a chance to change and send in their own lives. Much more would be said, because much more needs to be done. The system of allocation of support products ( SAPA ) continues to be a bureaucratic calvary with no response in good time, where there is still a lack of money to refuse requests; inclusive vocational training is still a mirage; inclusive education, where the bases of true social inclusion are to be built, is not fulfilling this function; accessibility legislation is not being respected, due to the insecurity and disloyalty of those responsible, but also due to the lack of resources available for this; access to employment is known. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are available to work on all these issues, but with the conviction that disability is not a medical issue, nor of charity or assistanceism; it is a matter of human rights and human rights are not royal. They are not cut or discussed; they are done! [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u3	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who would like to ask questions, whether the honourable Member who has just spoken, whether the Government, who will use the word below, would like to sign up until the end of the next speech. These questions will first be addressed to Mr Jorge Falcato and secondly to the Government. For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The full social inclusion of people with disabilities is not only one of the most important contemporary civil challenges as it can and should be an area of high national consensus. These reasons fully justify the appeal to the Government made by the Left Block. Based on empirical reality and scientific studies, it is proven that people with disabilities or disabilities are among the most excluded social groups in any society, even in the most developed countries. Aware of the emergency and the challenge of advancing policies for the promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities, the Government has therefore decided to integrate in its composition a member of the Government, a Secretary of State, with responsibility for the inclusion of persons with disabilities. In this way, we assume as a vision a society for all and for all, as the Government is currently working on a broad, coherent and cross-sectoral package of public policies that promote equal opportunities for people with disabilities or disabilities towards all citizens, with a view to their full inclusion in society. More than a change of principle and style, we have also changed the way we act in this sector. Thus, we started the work with an extensive round of hearings to representative entities and service providers in the area of disability in order to better understand the problems and needs of this group. This way of drawing public policies, together with its recipients, is in line with the already famous slogan « Nothing about us without us ». in this sense, it was already possible to implement a set of measures aimed at improving the income of people with disabilities and their families, including the increase in social benefits, such as: the 3 % increase in disability bonus, covering more than 80 000 people and representing around EUR 1, 8 million; the increase of 14, 5 % in the allowance for third-party assistance, covering more than 13 000 users; the increase in the family allowance for children and young people, which is reflected in this area through their increase; the replacement of social protection in instruments such as social integration income, which also protects persons with disabilities with particular incidence; the increase in the tax deduction for families with disabilities and / or upwards with disabilities to EUR 1187, which represented more than EUR 2, 6 million, benefiting 22 000 family members; the discounts for persons with disabilities in rail transport, also by reducing 75 % for the disabled and 25% for the companion, estimated that this measure would benefit more than 10 000. With regard to State support for social organisations and institutions in this sector, the Government has sent a clear signal through the increase of approximately one million euros in support of projects and the operation of these organisations financed by the National Institute for Rehabilitation. On the other hand, the capacity of occupational activity centres has been increased in more than 500 places in the last year. It was also possible to strengthen the funds for early intervention, support and rehabilitation centres for people with disabilities, residences and autonomous residences and home support service for people with disabilities. With regard to access to services and information, the integrated specialized service network, the Balcony of Inclusion, was created. This service of care dedicated to persons with disabilities or disabilities, already in operation at seven district social security centres and at the National Institute for Rehabilitation, provides for its extension to the 18 district centers by the end of the year. Since its creation, in April this year, more than 2100 people have been cared for. In addition to improving the access of persons with disabilities or disabilities in the most diverse contexts of society, enhancing their full participation, we have established by law the obligation to provide priority care to these persons in all public and private entities. The Government intended to improve and adjust the scheme of special education grant frequency so as to ensure greater effectiveness in the protection of children with disabilities who need specific support for their development. Also at the level of support products from 2015 to 2016, we increased the amount of funding in half a million euros, as well as the catalogue of eligible products under the Support Product Allocation System, where 21 new products were introduced. Finally, we have created the national monitoring mechanism for the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, of the United Nations, and all its members have been appointed. This mechanism aims to give voice to representatives of persons with disabilities, academics and other relevant actors in Portuguese society, thereby establishing an independent assessment of the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Portugal. In addition to the policy measures already implemented, the Government is working on a broad package of new initiatives in this area. With regard to improving social protection, living conditions and activation of people with disabilities, I would like to highlight a few points. Firstly, the renewal of social protection for disability. This reform, which also aims to add the main cash benefits to this population, includes a basic component, based on the principle of citizenship, specific burden compensation components and, above all, a component to combat poverty, aimed at eradicating poverty in people with disabilities but also at valuing their inclusion in the labour market. Secondly, I stress the models of support for independent life. The Government will, very briefly this year, create and regulate an innovative and comprehensive model of support for the independent life of people with disabilities. This Community-based model, using the figure of personal assistance for the implementation of daily life activities and social participation, will promote the deinstitutionalization of people with disabilities, enhancing their inclusion in the community. As far as social protection and income gain are concerned, we are working to ensure that people with work incomes are entitled to a higher tax reduction as a way to encourage their participation in work. With the aim of valuing and recognizing the role of informal care, a working group was set up to define the status of informal caregivers that also covers the figure of caregivers of people with disabilities or disabilities. In the promotion of citizenship, the Government will amend the Civil Code with a view to the legal training of persons with disabilities or disabilities, in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee of Experts of the United Nations. On the other hand, we are preparing the access of deaf people to emergency number 112, a situation that needs to be resolved urgently in the face of the manifest inequity in the protection of these citizens in case of emergency. We are also reviewing public parking legislation, which will give you the right to park in locations more suitable for your situation to a greater number of people. In order to enhance the participation of civil society in the design and evaluation of public policies in this sector, the Government is finalizing the establishment of an advisory council for disability. These measures fall within the scope of a broader strategy, which we called the agenda for the inclusion of people with disabilities and which will shortly replace the National Strategy for Disability, which ended in 2013. With this reforming impulse, we hope to contribute to the improvement of the quality of life, to the promotion of an autonomous life and to the realization of the rights and full participation of these people in society and in particular in their communities of belonging. This is our vision, this is our goal: to work with everyone for a society that integrates the difference and values the difference so that it can be more equal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the debate stage, starting with the questions to be addressed to Mr Jorge Falcato, for which three Mrs have entered. Ladies and gentlemen. In the meantime, Mr Jorge Falcato has informed the Bureau that he wishes to answer together. So, to ask questions, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u6	Mr President, I should like to begin by welcoming the Left Block on the subject which brings the debate here today, on the reflection it calls for us to do on this subject, also by greeting all those who are present to attend this debate and by greeting the organizations of people with disabilities for their actions and struggles in defence of the rights of people with disabilities. [[PCP applause.]] Mr Jorge Falcato spoke on the issues of independent life, and this is something that the Left Block has brought to the discussion. The CFP has also spoken on this matter. In fact, he presented a legislative initiative in this House — which, unfortunately, was rejected by the majority PSD/CDS in the previous legislation — in which we proposed the creation of a pilot project for an independent life support scheme in articulation and with the involvement of the organizations of people with disabilities to define the objectives, criteria, types of response, the amount of support, the nature of support and procedures and the possibility of the future social provision of independent life support for people with aggravated disabilities and with reduced autonomy. We also propose on this initiative the creation of a pilot service of personal assistants, with training in various areas, including personal care for personal hygiene and care, home services, social services, including support for employment, access to sports equipment, culture, leisure and social life development, thus relieving the pressure on family members, as the honourable Member mentioned in the gallery, and on other informal care providers who, often having to provide support to families with disabilities, are unable to pursue a professional activity. We have done so because in our country the right to an autonomous life, to a dignified and independent life is denied to thousands of people with disabilities and because we believe that building a society that guarantees social inclusion and integration requires concrete measures that enable people with disabilities to live with dignity in their own homes and participate in the life of their communities, with their families, with their friends, promoting their autonomy and independence and thus allowing many people with disabilities to work without the help of the family and others to get access to employment, which we consider to be central to the dignity of the human being. Mr President, we have talked about programmes and pilot projects for independent life, but it is also important to know the opinion of the Left Block on which steps must be taken so that pilot projects become a reality in the lives of people with disabilities every day. This is what is intended for a pilot project, that is, starting from an experience, it expands and becomes a decent reality in the lives of these people, in fact, an inalienable right. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u7	Also for a request for clarification, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u8	Mr President, Mr Falcato, I would like to begin by welcoming you for bringing this debate to the House, which is an important debate and which we do without prejudice, especially without ideological prejudices. We also have this debate with great respect. As we know, there are those who have been born with disabilities, but any one of us can see himself in the situation of being suffering from a disability. Mr. Jorge Falcato, you did well to ask your Government. I remember: it's your government, and it's been a year. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u9	Let's go to the facts: Mr. Member, how is it explained that if the government that you support, which said that you were going to turn the austerity page, has so far done less in social action than the PSD/CDS government did in 2015? The implementation of the August numbers shows that in social action it was less than 1, 7%. And I am no longer talking about the values that this government has committed to increasing, I am simply comparing these two values. As regards the measures to support independent life which were included in Portugal 2020, in the Operational Programme for Social Inclusion and Employment, there are money available from the European Union, the regulation was prepared by the PSD/CDS Government and approved by the European Union. It's been a year. How does the honourable Member explain that the opening of candidatures is being postponed successively? How do you explain he's standing? Isn't it a matter of priority? If we want to have a serious debate, I ask you, frankly, how is it that, together with the PS and the PCP, the Left Block has already voted against the CDS proposals to create a guarantee plan for children and young people with disabilities, basically, a insurance made up of the savings of parents and family members? Oh, my God! [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u10	Was it prejudiced? Explain why he also voted against the CDS proposal, which intended that patients with deep disabilities continue to receive the care they need after the death of their parents, through the establishment of food legacy or vital pension. And now why has it voted against the CDS initiative to increase the disability bonus in the family allowance? Was it just because they were proposed to the CDS? Do you think that the issue of disability should be a hostage to ideological prejudice? Mr President, I understand that you are disappointed with your government — I stress, with your government! You have good reasons for that, but it's your government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u11	Mr Rui Riso has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before I ask Mr Jorge Falcato my question, I would like to make only two references. The first refers to the way this government has addressed, underlined and meant to highlight and support the paralympic games, like what was done with the Olympics,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... manifesting and revealing that even what is different treats as equal. I would also like to point out that today is the International Day of Decent Work. All international and national organizations have an efemeride day on decent work and precisely because of it has all the cabyment giving decency to the work of the disabled, recognizing their actual value and not just looking at the work of the disabled as a permanent subsidised work often beyond their own value and that of what generates as compensation to the employer for having a disabled employee. Whether we want to or not, this excess of subsidization will always devalue the work of that worker, and it must therefore be recognised before the whole society — and the whole society must do so — the decency of work and what this work adds to society, employers and the economy. I think that this work should also be highlighted, particularly today, on the International Day of Decent Work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Jorge Falcato, if I may, I will divide into two the question I have to ask you. The first is to know how the problem we have in Portuguese society is that we have a disability from the performance of the Armed Forces during the events that have occurred in our history and that, of course, we must also have a special fit given the circumstances in which the disability has been acquired. Secondly, I would like to ask a more objective question on a health issue. I know that this is an area of responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, but there should always be a cross with the Ministry of Health. I am specifically referring to the need, which seems absolute to me, for the reference of urgent patients or even their normal care to be determined not by councils or by any other administrative division, but by the speed with which they reach the health establishment. I would like to ask the honourable Member if he would be able to see that there was a pilot project to start with this type of patient, who has a more pressing need for access to health than the generality of the population, and that this reference could be made by the shortest criterion of time between the patient's residence and the health establishment and not in terms of administrative division. If this was a pilot project for this universe, for these citizens, it could be extended, perhaps, to all citizens, mainly using criteria such as distance/time, greater speed, greater action in the protection of health, greater ease, and even the criteria for reducing costs in the transport of the patient. I would like to know if this would be seen with good eyes, and it is certain that this project, to some extent, creates a greater distance between the usual establishment where the patient is referred to for another administrative division. So I wonder if the differentiation for these patients in a pilot project would be well received or not. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u13	To reply, Mr Jorge Falcato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall reply by order of the questions that have been asked to me. Mrs Diana Ferreira, you are quite right, there is a concern that is real, that is, from the moment we have pilot projects, it is necessary to start thinking about legislation that will generalize independent life to all citizens who need it. My idea, and I think it will be reasonable, is that, in pilot projects that last for three years, an interim evaluation will be carried out at the end of two years, which will already allow the drafting of future legislation, so that there is no time for people with disabilities to be able, in essence, to access the provision of assistance by personal assistants, because, if not, we are launching pilot projects and creating an expectation in people with disabilities who, at the end of three years, end up and the people remain « hanged», without a solution. Mr António Monteiro, I should like to tell you that disability does not imply a 'little charity'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u15	It's always the same conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u16	If the right has a way of dealing with disability with charity, I must say that I have a vision of human rights, citizenship, participation of these people, and this is ideology. With regard to what has led to, for example, that in independent life, this government has delayed everything, I must say that, by chance,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u17	Mr. Deputy said it in the rostrum!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u18	May I speak, Your Honor? As I was saying, by chance, with the Indignant Deficient Movement, I was here, at this House door, fighting for independent life. But we were also received by Secretary of State Augustine Branquinho, who promised us, in 2014, even at the end of 2013,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u19	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u20	... that at the beginning of 2014 would begin drafting an independent life law. This agreement was sealed with a handshake between people who, in principle, should fulfill their promises, but, after this promise, at subsequent meetings of the Movement of Indignant Deficients exactly with the team of the Secretary of State of Augustine Brankinho, disavowed all the promises they had made, all that they had agreed upon, and dropped the issue of independent life.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u22	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u23	That's all I have to say! There are real ideologies here, and there's also one thing that matters: good people, when they wake things up, don't go back. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In fact, Ms.PCP Member Diana Ferreira very well remembered that the CDS and PSD voted here against independent life, by plummeting the proposals of the PCP and the Left Block exactly to implement independent life.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u24	And why did you vote against the CDS-PP proposals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u25	I was waiting for this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u26	What I regret is the delay in resolving issues relating to persons with disabilities and the four years lost during the mandate of their Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]] With regard to the question from Mr Rui Riso, I believe that he has all the reasonableness that the person should be treated in the shortest possible time and that, indeed, health care should be provided in the shortest possible time. at this moment, it seems to me that it is already possible for a person to resort to a hospital other than that of his area of residence. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u27	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to move to the stage of the questions addressed to the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security for which seven Members are enrolled. Ladies and gentlemen. The Bureau was informed, however, that the Minister will answer in two blocks, so a first block will be made with questions from four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen and a second with questions from the rest. I recall again that the times used both by those who ask and by those who respond discount in the available times of each bench, which will make them the management that best understand. So, to put questions, you have the floor, first of all, Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, the issue of inclusion or lack of inclusion begins at school and therefore the earlier intervention we have to have citizens with disabilities perfectly included, who feel included and have conditions of inclusion throughout life. We still don't have a completely inclusive school and, in the barriers to an inclusive school, we have two kinds of problems, which would call hardware and software problems. We have hardware problems, when we have classes that have rules, rules that promote the inclusion of students with special educational needs, and well, rules that tell us that classes should be reduced so that students can spend 60% of their time in class and in class context — that is good! — but schools have no resources, they have no teachers, they do not have enough classes to comply with these rules. So today we have many schools that do not have reduced classes, that is, they have more than 20 students, they have 22, 23 and 24 students, and more than the two students with special educational needs that are provided for in the law. This is a problem! This means that the rules that have been laid down to promote inclusion are not being met by lack of resources. at the same time, we have a compulsory education that advanced to 12. the year, but we have secondary schools that are not prepared to accompany these students after basic education. Basic schools have taken a course, secondary schools are not yet prepared: they do not have resource centres yet, they do not have a perfectly installed culture of inclusion nor resources to promote such inclusion. These are, therefore, two concerns I would like to put: the classes and the number of students per class and secondary schools and their resources. At this level, the Left Block will still propose — and I would like to know the Government's opinion on this — that a recruitment group should be established for Portuguese gestual teachers, who are currently being hired as trainers. If we want to be serious about inclusion, we also need to have professionals included in schools that promote the inclusion of students. But, as I said recently, we still have a software problem. And the software problem that revolves around, let's say so, of Decree-Law No. 3 / 2008, which is being reviewed by the government, has to do with alternative paths that are created and that eventually turn into ghettos. Students with special educational needs are pushed into alternative pathways that then do not give them any kind of exit, whether academic or professional. Prof. David Rodrigues, who is a well-known specialist in this area, has told us that there are more and more students who are different from the standard for which programs, curricula and curricula are made. What does this mean? This means that the education system has been modeling in a less inclusive way not only for students with special educational needs, but for any student who is different from the standard. The exams, the goals, the curricula created an increasingly selective educational system for any student who has a difference and not necessarily a special educational need, with their exams and their rankings. Therefore, we also wanted to know how the review of Decree-Law No. 3/2008 is and how the curricula will become more inclusive for these students, and not only for all students, in a more inclusive school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u29	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, indeed this is a matter of the greatest importance that affects many citizens, many families and, of course, also mobilizes us, not with an ideological concern, as we have seen here, because even such issues, which concern the dignity of people, are essentially able to be transformed into an ideological weapon. That is not our position in any way, and we hope that it is not the position of the government either. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u31	But on this subject, Minister, the fact is that we saw the government announce in February this year—and it seems so far—that it would define a strategy involving the different actors in the fulfilment of the quotas for disabled people in the public and private sector—was the so-called 'new national strategy for disability or disability' — and we also heard the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities affirm in March 2016 that 'we are committed to working for the creation of a single social benefit in the area of disability during the first half of 2016'. Well, far away goes March, has passed the first semester, has passed the third quarter, and nothing! And we have heard here the Minister refer briefly to the fulfillment of these promises. It seems until then it is no longer committed to the 2017 Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u32	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u33	Here we will be to know these proposals, with great expectation, but we realize above all one essential thing: the government is fast in promises, it is fast in propaganda, but it is very slow to implement that same propaganda and those same promises. On the other hand, it was very quick to take action, even during the bathing season — such was the awning! — to eliminate the positive discrimination of disabled citizens under the single traffic tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u34	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u35	The amendments introduced in this regard have made exemptions for citizens with disabilities subject to the amount of €200 and the level of CO2 emissions. That is, what happens to a disabled citizen who is not in a position to buy a new car? He starts to pay the IUC (single circulation tax). Where is the social sensitivity of this measure, Minister? Why was it implemented even during vacation? What forthcoming tax measures to burden disabled citizens? Finally, Minister, two questions: when will we have the new national strategy for disability or disability? And when will the single social benefit, already advanced, be presented or implemented? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u36	Also to put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Júlia Rodrigues of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, first of all I welcome the Block on the Left for bringing here this issue on disability policies, a topic that touches all of us in a special way. Let me talk about the national network of inclusion counters. Since last April, these balconies provide a specialized care service to people with disabilities or disabilities and their families. The pilot project started with seven balconies, a little across the country, in the district social security centers of Lisbon, Faro, Setúbal, Porto, Viseu and Vila Real. The aim is to have at least one inclusion counter in each district. It was guaranteed by the National Institute for Rehabilitation, the specific training in this specialized service in order to inform about priority issues such as social benefits, social responses, employment, support to employers, vocational training, tax benefits, accessibility, transport, early intervention, education, among others. The model is being implemented and includes the possibility of establishing protocols with municipal services, thus promoting the proximity of responses to existing local needs. Mr President, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, within the country, in particular in the Bragança district, the reality of inclusion of persons with disabilities has constraints other than the coast and large urban centers. Also within the country, the inclusion counter initiative was strongly recognized by the ability to inform, support and solve the problems of people with disabilities. However, territorial dispersion, coupled with a network of poor and costly transport to institutions that welcome people with disabilities, leaves few alternatives to families. Social responses are concentrated at the headquarters of the district, in more distant parishes. The solution will inevitably go through distant residential homes of family and friends, since the existing occupational activities centres cannot bear the costs of day-to-day travel. That is why it is appropriate to question the Government. What is the situation of the implementation of the national network of inclusion counters? How many counters and what opening calendar? What has been the search for people with disabilities and their families in already open inclusion counters? Finally, and resorting to the political priority of this government in the enhancement of the interior of the country, how is the inclusion strategy of people with disabilities being developed there? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u38	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u39	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, I would like to begin by congratulating the Left Block on the fact that it has brought this subject to this question, as well as all the people who have been interested in attending this discussion and who are really interested in it. I take precisely this expression, 'true interests in this matter', which is being discussed here, to say the following: this is certainly not or, at least, is not how the Greens see it, a debate for people with disabilities. This is a debate for society as a whole, and society as a whole must definitely be called to discuss and find solutions to this matter, because as long as we stop in the 'we and them' we are going the wrong way, because we must all be called to think, feel and find solutions. This is the first point. This to say what? To say that, while a highly qualified young person who is looking for employment, goes through all the steps of the process, being the best, and when it is viewed by the entity that will eventually select it to the place it is preterised because it detects that it has a visual disability, this is all wrong! As long as there is no information in Braille or follow-up in gesture language in our museums, this is all wrong! As long as these solutions found are a one-time case and are not generalized, it's all wrong! We continue in the "we and them"! And no! We are all «us»! Our second idea is that the right to independent life is enshrined in the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as has already been mentioned here, but it could not even be, because it does not cease to be an obvious right for all people. When we talk about the right to an independent life, of course, we also have to talk about the incomes of people with disabilities, which, as we know, is also a factor of discrimination, have poverty rates that are absolutely considerable. It is clear that the issue of income and social support must be considered in a very realistic perspective and in order to guarantee a just independent life. But when we talk about the guarantee of an independent life, we also talk about what we all find in our society and in our streets. I would like to stop at a point where I would like to ask the Minister a question, which is related to the architectural barriers. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how many times have we discussed the matter of architectural barriers in this plenary session, in committees and elsewhere? How many? Would you like to know if, since Decree-Law No 163/2006, such significant steps have been taken to eliminate architectural barriers, especially in our public buildings? How is it possible for us to still have courts and health centers where certain people with disabilities have a barrier to accessibility? It can't be! When we do not look at these most basic things that have no solutions and that, by chance, even had a time defined in the law that was not fulfilled, we are not giving answers. And we must quickly give answers. Then we always go to the same question: Does it cost money? Cost! But, for fuck's sake, what do we want to guarantee? Money serves that very purpose, to serve people, or we understand that things are priority or not! While there are wheelchair people who are still taken to the lap by other people to get to a courthouse, this is all wrong! When there are people who can't climb the very narrow stairway of a health center, whose elevator, when it exists, is permanently damaged, this is all wrong! So, Minister, what I would like to ask is the following: is there at least any survey of public buildings that still have those inequitable architectural barriers so that an intervention plan can be planned for their elimination? It's just, if the uprising isn't even done... The Greens have already put forward proposals here, in other legislations, for this survey to be made! And we'll do it again, but I'd like to know if this survey is done or not. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u40	In reply, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by saying to Mrs Joana Mortágua that, as you will understand, at the end of my answers, I will give the floor to Mr Secretary of State for Education to answer the questions that occupy mainly this area. Mr Anacoreta Correia, I tried to ensure that my speech was essentially positive. I said I was trying to identify the axes, the points, the objectives that I believe can contribute to a national consensus around this policy area. I did not, in the 10 minutes to which I was entitled, an assessment — which could have done — which was the governance of the parties that you have supported over the past four years. I didn't. I identified 12 areas where this government, in these months of operation — underlining, 12 areas — has produced changes with concrete reflections on people's lives, in terms of social responses, of fiscal situations, of care. There were 12 areas with concrete answers. I think it is much more than you could list in the four years of your governance, and on that I say everything. [[Congratulations from the PS and the Greens.]] Mr President, I would also like to say that with regard to the exemption from car tax, the Government has already said that its aim is only that of justice and equity. If there is any amendment necessary to the legislation in force to ensure that all persons with disabilities have privileged access to this type of exemption, the Government and the parties supporting it will not fail to implement it. I would also like to say, Mr President, that the sole benefit or the renewal of social protection that Mr State Secretary will talk about shortly, that the Government's commitment is to present, by the end of this year, the proposals and legislative initiatives that will be renewed, reforming social protection for people with disabilities. Now, because it has been mentioned — and the Secretary of State will talk about it — I would like to say that the previous government has entered into the Community funds the MAVI (Independent Life Support Models), it is true, but it has done nothing more than that. He wrote, but what he wrote on the subject is approaching zero. There are 10 or 12 questions on this topic, which could list, and which were not answered, but the answers are being constructed so that, even this year, the legislation that will allow pilot projects in this area can be approved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u42	It's been a year, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u43	Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia, I agree with you. As you know, there is a fundamental role of local authorities that have the essential responsibility for responses to architectural barriers. In many of these authorities there is the identification of these barriers, but I also recognize that the supervision, which, in fact, is the responsibility of the INR (National Institute for Rehabilitation), is perhaps insufficient. As I said, and very well, perhaps the dedication of structural funds specifically directed towards this concern may be an answer that has not been found so far. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u44	As the Minister mentioned, Mr. Secretary of State for Education, Mr. João Costa, to whom I give the floor, will answer a part of the questions put.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, addressing in particular Mrs Joana Mortágua and taking up some of Mr Jorge Falcato's words, said in the initial intervention, in fact, it is up to the school to ensure full citizenship to all students who are there, regardless of any kind of condition. We have data showing that the school is not yet fulfilling this mission. What we are interested in is, as I said, knowing what we are doing to build a more inclusive school or a truly inclusive school, after several years of working for a school based on ways of segregation and elitism, which would be the denial of all inclusive perspective. We have, as you said, as we look at this subject, the central look, which is that of the software. in this regard, we have to think and realize that it is not possible, it is not feasible, as far as we do, for many resources we have at school, to have an inclusive school, if we have a curriculum that is not. That is, while the curriculum does not allow all students to have a full place in the classroom, as long as the curriculum is reserved for an elite—and here I also take the words of Prof. David Rodrigues on this subject—we are not ensuring that this school forms citizens who do not look at their disabled colleague as a foreign body in the classroom, but as someone who is there because he has to be as he is and who is not disabled, it is different, as Mr. Jorge Falcato said, in the initial intervention. Therefore, we are operationalizing a curriculum management that has this component as one of the main, i.e. being a curriculum that can be managed flexibly and that really allows pedagogical differentiation. During this year we are also about the work that is being done in connection with the amendment of Decree-Law No 3/2008, to plan to end these paths that do not confer any certification and that, often, families only at the end of the course is that they discover this very thing. We want to end this deception of several families in which we stumble every day. During this year, we are preparing training for operational assistants in the area of special educational needs. With regard to the classes, we have increased by about 400 the reduced classes this year. We still have, as you said, classes that are not reduced, but we have no illegal class, so that all classes that do not comply with what is planned lack follow-up and approval by their pedagogical councils. We are monitoring all cases of students in irregular situations that are being reported to us. And this is important to win: in fact, there is a software problem and there are schools that are not yet open to receive these students. A follow-up has been made of these cases, of these schools, to ensure that this ceases to happen. This will also result in a review of the external evaluation procedures of schools, because we cannot want schools to include and at the same time exclude the inclusion of the external evaluation rules of schools. Therefore, this will have to be a weighting factor in this type of school evaluation. Finally, we have taken note of the recommendation of the CRI Monitoring Committee (resource centres for inclusion) to ensure that the evaluation of follow-up with therapies is carried out in a joint way between the CRI and the teams in schools and we have some significant investment this year. We have increased in 152 special education teachers placed in schools, corresponding to an investment of about EUR 5700 million and, finally, we are increasing the number of psychologists with access to the Structural Funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u46	We moved on to the second round of questions. Mrs Sandra Pereira from the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, on behalf of the PSD parliamentary board, I would like to congratulate you on the opportunity and relevance of this debate. Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, we have heard that and for the time being I thought we had retreated for one year to the presentation of the Government's programme. I don't know if Mr. Minister has noticed it, but it's been a year and the expectation of the PSD bench is that we've been talking about what we've done and what we're doing on the ground. Especially when we heard Mr. Jorge Falcato, partner of the coalition, we are clearly left with the idea that there are no policies on the ground, there are intentions, and that there are no policies on the ground for disability. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u48	I must tell you, Mr Minister, that for the PSD this issue is treated as a supra-party issue, so that we can develop the necessary consensus to produce the best solutions for these people, who are most vulnerable. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u49	We reject politics and 'partisan' and we will seek an extended consensus in order to promote a more just and inclusive society. You can count on that from the PSD. The challenge facing the Government — the Minister and the Secretary of State for Inclusion and Persons with Disabilities — is to design integrated, cross-cutting policies with the participation of civil society and institutions of social solidarity so as to promote the true inclusion of citizens with disabilities, but now, Minister. And we stress that institutions are of primary importance, because they often constitute, most of the time, the true families and the true inclusion agents of people with disabilities and as such should be seen, as genuine partners in the design of these policies. Mr Minister, we are concerned about a constant rhetoric coming from the left, which discredits the institutions. We therefore reaffirm the challenge of convergence in these matters, an extended convergence, with the institutions, with civil society, with the political parties, with all of us. I now, in particular, turn to the questions I want to ask you. What is the Government doing to put the operational programme of social inclusion and employment to work definitively, so that the social institutions of solidarity, which deal with these issues and train these people, can continue this great work of inclusion, training and promotion of the capacities of the disabled person? What is the Government doing to prevent the financial collapse of these institutions, that the Minister and the Secretary of State know it was imminent, since the solution that you have worked to exhaust-CL will be in the short term? What are they waiting for to make Portugal 2020 run definitively and open the candidatures in this area? The Minister said that this area was fragile, an area that needed more attention and was listening to the entities. I wanted to ask you if you talked to the entities that train for this sector,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u50	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u51	... if you know of the financial strangulation these institutions are living, if you know that almost closed institutions due to lack of funding and lack of money and you know that there have also been some schools for disability that have had to close due to lack of funding. Mr Minister, Secretary of State, I would just like to ask not to underestimate the work of the many social institutions whose representatives of some of them are here, who have been living in recent times with great anxiety. The government must give them confidence, stability and predictability, because that always means dealing with their work with dignity and promoting the socialisation of disabled citizens, which is what we are all concerned about. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u52	To put questions, I have the floor of Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, it is true that in Portuguese society there is a concern about disability, but for too many years the alleged consensus of this concern about people with disabilities has been treated as the object of charity, possibly even a sincere commissation, but objects of charity and not as holders of rights. And, yes, this is also ideological. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u54	The debate we need to do is whether we want to have a society that is sorry for people with disabilities and gives their care to the private, the Church and families, or whether, on the contrary, we have public policies that assume that the rights of people with disabilities are citizenship rights that must promote the autonomy, independence, emancipation and self-determination of people with disabilities. This implies income policies, implies social responses, implies access to education, health and employment. Mr Minister, I would like to focus on this last point, namely access to employment, because we know that access to employment is a condition of this autonomy. The Institute of Employment and Vocational Training ( IEFP ), which is a public institute, has many weaknesses. For example, you do not have decent care of this name for people who are deaf. Vocational training centres, many of them protocoled with the IEFP, do not have conditions of accessibility. There is also a weakness that is linked to the job offers themselves. Commenting on what Mrs PSD said, this is not only in the social sector. We must distribute the employment that exists in the Public Administration and in the private sector also by people with disabilities, and that is why a quota system has been created in Portugal. Mr Minister, we have orders for this quota system that are 10 years old, 12 years old, 15 years old and, in some cases, are not regulated. We have orders, laws and good principles on the system of employment quotas for people with disabilities, whose violation the State accepts more or less passively. In central and local administrations, there is an obligation of 5 % of tenders explicitly mentioning, from three places, a place for a disabled person, but we know that often this does not happen, or they are divided, in order not to have that obligation. That is why, Minister, we need to know what is going to happen in this area. In private companies, there is an obligation of quotas up to 2 % of people with disabilities, but when you consult the INR website, you ask: are companies obliged to do so? The answer is: yes. Then we ask ourselves: What is the obligation? And on the website it is said that this obligation will depend on regulation. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no regulation! in this area, we even have good principles in the law, but, Minister, the question is simple: when will we be assured that these principles become good practice? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u55	To ask questions again, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, I would also like to ask Mr. Minister questions relating to projects or pilot programmes of independent life, in particular I would like to have more information about their financing or the values that may be involved in financing these projects, the universe of people with disabilities who will be covered in these pilot programmes and also their extension at territorial level, or, if it is already planned, which locations of implementation of these projects. I would also like to raise the question that we have already put to the Left Block, on the perspective of the continuity and future of these pilot programmes, when they cease to be. In addition to these issues related to independent life, it is also important for the CFP to reiterate the concerns we have about accessibility issues. We know that today there are thousands of disabled people who are often unable to move within their own cities or access public buildings. In fact, not long ago, and here very close, there was an action dynamized by disabled people's organizations that demonstrated exactly the mobility difficulties in the city of Lisbon, the barriers that exist and that need to be eliminated. The CFP presented at the Assembly of the Republic a legislative initiative to raise the reality of the situation of accessibility at national level and to take steps to comply with the adaptations provided for in Decree-Law No 163 / 2016, and it was important to know the availability of the Government for these proposals and its planning for possible solutions. Although the Minister has already come forward with a possible solution, it would be important to deepen this knowledge until, recently, it was announced by the Secretary of State for Tourism two lines of investment for the adaptation of public spaces and for the conversion and adaptation of hotels and tourist accommodation, restaurants and other tourist entertainment spaces. We would like to know whether, in this or another investment, there is any provision for intervention at the level of other types of public equipment and spaces, including education, health, cultural or even other public services. We understand that the adaptation of spaces like these is fundamental to the day-to-day fulfilment of the right to mobility of disabled people. We would also like to ask a question about work — which is a fundamental pillar for the guarantee of independence, autonomy and dignity in the lives of each one — in particular as regards the adaptability of the job. We refer more precisely to the workers affected by the work and often to the need for these workers, when they return to their places of work, to see their jobs adapted, which often, in a number of public and private entities, does not happen, which means unemployment for these workers. We would therefore like to understand the government's knowledge of this matter and possible steps to be taken. Finally, I would like to ask a question about the inclusion counters. An information that has reached the PCP and that it is also important to confirm is about the service, which can only be done by presenting the multi-use attestation. This also poses a problem for workers with work and persons with occupational disease, who have disabilities or disabilities recognized by the Labour Court and the ISS ( Institute of Social Security ), but do not have the multi-use attestation and must have access to it in order to be able to go to the social inclusion desk. We wanted to confirm this information and to appreciate the government's willingness to take measures to ensure that the inclusion counters respond to all people with disabilities and disabilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u57	To reply, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u58	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Pereira, I can only conclude that you have been distracted not only in this debate but also in others for a long time. Madam Member, of the 10 minutes of my speech, I have used 6 minutes to give an account to the Assembly of the Republic, as is my duty, of the results and achievements which the Government has achieved. The time I have to answer prevents me from repeating the results and achievements that the government has achieved in the area of social equipment, in the area of social services, in the tax area, in the area of care... There were 12 points that I identified in 6 minutes. Since you haven't been paying attention, I'll be happy to send you my speech so that you won't spend any more time now. But now I would also like to say that the honourable Member has not been aware of what has happened with regard to the implementation of the structural funds. The first thing we had to resolve when we arrived at the government was precisely the situation of disqualification that existed in the information systems of support for vocational training, particularly for people with disabilities, and this has been solved so often with great difficulty, but always because you did not do your job! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr José Moura Soeiro, in fact, there are questions of ideology here, but there is also, as the reality requires us, a need to work together. I believe that Portuguese society is available to do this work, because this is a challenge of the whole society. Ideology is always present and the honourable Member has identified the essential aspect of the ideological debate, which is the question of rights, is to look at the integration of people with disabilities as a question of citizenship law. That is the fundamental issue of this debate. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Of course, this does not prevent or contradict work with social institutions and we are proud to say that we have recently made agreements with all the social institutions to strengthen their capacity precisely in the area of disability, to open occupational centres that had been closed by the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These agreements are written down, are public and are recognised. [[PSD protests.]] It is not contradictory to defend rights with support for social institutions and social movement. Mr President, as time is scarce and I would like the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities to be able to develop some points that have been put here, I would just say that there are two fundamental aspects to which we want to resolve in the short term. One of them is to regulate the Labour Code in the area of people with disabilities, which has not yet been done and which answers many of the issues that have been identified here. The other is to prevent one of the biggest obstacles to access to work, which is the fact that labour income is often contradictory to social benefits income, which means that people with disabilities have to choose between access to work, sometimes with difficult levels of sustainability, and social welfare. We will overcome this issue and we will also ensure that the right to work is a right that we will achieve for people with disabilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u59	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities, Ana Sofia Antunes, to whom I respect for the value of your personal example. [[P.S., BE, and P.N. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by complimenting you all. Since Mr Minister, in his speech, began to make an overview, although not very well understood by some, of those who were the topics in which we have already managed to take over almost one year of mandate and those in which we are working hard to quickly present solid results, I ask you now to allow me to concentrate essentially on two points, which raise relevant doubts and to which I will try to answer: social benefits for people with disabilities or disabilities and self-support movements. With regard to social benefits for people with disabilities or disabilities, we know that the model currently in force is complex, with a very diverse set of benefits aimed at dealing with very diverse situations of dependence, different times when the person can find himself throughout his life, and many of them lack a thorough review, since they have already been reported for a few years. It is in this sense that we are trying to review this measure, not only because we understand that people with disabilities should not be burdened with the burden of having to be them, throughout their lives, having to be demanding different benefits, but also because we understand that we must pass this responsibility for monitoring on the side of social security, on the side of services. And because we have the notion that, even with the current benefits, there are many people with disabilities living in a situation of poverty — mostly with around €260 per month income — and also because we have the notion that the question of social benefits has so far been looked at from a point of view that they are not able to accumulate incomes from work, which, in our view, is absolutely contrary to what is the continuation of the principles of social participation, it was in this sense that we designed a proposal for social benefits for people with disabilities and disabilities. However, this proposal for benefit, which is drawn up, is closed in terms of drafting and which will now enter into public discussion, so that we can improve what we may not have achieved, has essentially three objectives: firstly, to improve the social protection that people with disabilities and disabilities deserve in Portugal; secondly, to allow there to be a promotion of employability and that people do not have to choose between working and receiving social benefits because, at one time, they are afraid that, by accepting a proposal for work, if, however, they are without it at the end of a short time, they will have a lot of difficulty in recovering their performance; and finally, a third objective is to remove people with disabilities from a poverty situation, and from there we have as a reference to the values of social provision for people with disabilities a value that remains above poverty threshold in Portugal. This benefit is essentially composed of three components. A basic component, which is inspired by the principle of citizenship and which will allow a wide range of people with disabilities — those who do not have incomes, but also those who still have them — in a way...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u61	Madam Secretary of State, allow me to interrupt you just to inform you that you have already used 4 minutes. The Government now has just over 2 minutes and the Secretary of State will have at least one request for clarification from the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. You want to continue, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u62	As I said, a first component will also allow you to have access to this basic benefit who has income from work, although initially, at a lower threshold and which we will progressively extend. Then there is a second component, which is the complement, which will enable you to fight poverty and enable people to effectively stand above this threshold. A third component will be that of increase, which aims essentially to address the specific moments that the disabled person undergoes throughout life and the punctual and aggravated needs to bet on their rehabilitation and their health. Because of the lack of time, unfortunately, I'll have to stay around. I'm just saying that we will have this benefit approved by law by the end of the year. And so far, we will still have a public consultation process.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u63	Attention to time, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u64	Finally, I just wanted to have the opportunity, if possible, to say, in relation to self-support movements, that this model necessarily goes through the existence of funds that will finance the CAVI(independent support centres), which may not only be constituted by institutions in the area of disability but above all by people with disabilities who are associated in order to create these same CAVI. These CAVI, in the background, will have the function of threefold establishing contracts covering the CAVI, the disabled person and his personal assistant and that this choice remains in the hands of the disabled person, who has the money to pay to his personal assistant and the choice to select...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u65	You're going to waste your time, Secretary of State. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u66	I'm sorry, but really, the Assembly clock is not yet accessible to me. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u67	The PS Parliamentary Group will transfer at least 1 minute and 30 seconds to government time. Mr Jorge Falcato Simões has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u68	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the question I would like to raise, which has not yet been discussed, has to do with the need to make a plan to deinstitutionalize people who are, for example, hospitalized in residential homes. What I find is that in residential homes more than 40 % of the users are self-employed or partially dependent people. And with regard to body functions, with regard to movement, more than 60% of these people have no problems or have moderate problems; with regard to hearing, voice and speech issues, more than 60% have no problems or have moderate problems; with regard to vision, more than 80% have no problems or have moderate problems; and with regard to mental issues, more than 40% have no problems or have moderate problems. These people don't have to be in institutions. These people have to be released from these prisons. A plan has to be made, and my question rightly concerns the need for this plan. Another issue has to do with supporting products. The previous government sub-repeatically introduced a resource condition through the social security procedures manual that I hope this government is not implementing. Now, I see that social security requires, as necessary documents, assistance for support products, proof of pensions — ADSE, pension from abroad, insurance company, food pension —, receipt of the last maturity, scholarship or training, declaration of IRS and fixed expenses, such as the last receipt of income, depreciation, life insurance, water, electricity, gas, telephone, condominium, public transport, the frequency of social equipment. I mean, the law that established the support product award service says that supply is universal and free of charge. I therefore do not understand how social security continues to make these demands, which have been introduced by such a manual of procedures made by the previous Government. Will the Secretary of State give instructions to social security to end this, or not? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u69	To reply, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u70	Mr President, Mr. Jorge Falcato Simões, starting with the support products, I must say that, in relation to all situations which have been detected as an irregular request for this type of documentation, instructions have been given to ensure that these situations do not repeat themselves. But situations have to come to our knowledge so that we can turn them around and fight these illegalities. With regard to deinstitutionalisation, Mr President, I think we have had several opportunities to talk about this and the question is this: of course there is a need to deinstitutionalize because there are people who are in centres of occupational activities and who did not need to be there. But we are also aware of one thing: there are people who are at home and there are people who are in occupational centers because they need to be there. And they need to be there because it's the answer they have and because it's the answer that the parents of these people have. Obviously, in order to combat this reality, much help will be given to us by having a model of support for independent life that will allow us, in many situations, to promote this deinstitutionalization and allow the person to be at home with the support of his personal assistant who will help him to carry out the tasks in which he or she effectively needs support, such as those tasks of pure daily life, such as dressing, breathing, doing personal hygiene, cooking or cleaning the house, are instrumental activities, such as support for transport or the use of public services, they are the same activities of socio-professional mediation which are essentially aimed at people with mild or moderate intellectual disabilities, who have the possibility to be included in contexts of employability or socially useful activities, in which, with the support of that personal assistant, they can effectively be deinstitutionalized. That's the way. Let us not also make occupational and residential centres a seven-headed bug because in many situations this is the most appropriate solution for the case. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u71	Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u72	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: At the initiative of the Left Block, we are at parliamentary headquarters talking to the Government about disability policies. It is undoubtedly a current issue in inclusive and plural contemporary societies that deserves a serious, serene and unsavory approach to sectarianisms that would no longer be the political use of the situation of a significant group of Portuguese citizens. If disabled people cannot be subject to unacceptable stigmas, they should not be instrumental in the taste of occasional political conveniences, on the contrary, they should deserve the most appropriate public policies for this sector. Today, we do not know exactly how many people with disabilities exist in our country. If at the 2001 census the number of disabled people was around 630 000, more recently it has been admitted that this number could be higher and, according to some, it could even be around 1 million people. It was this year that the Government in office took the initiative to promote a census of the disabled population in our country, important and worthy work, but also complex and demanding. Indeed, such a census is absolutely necessary to get to know in depth the concrete reality we are talking about, and we can assure that only in this way can we better monitor the situation of people with disabilities. One of the central issues is to know how this work is going, particularly with regard to its implementation and the demanding guarantee of the protection of personal data, as it is also important to know how to act on this same reality, because if it is true that it is not the government's concern about the need for ever-increasing inclusion of people with disabilities, which is, moreover, an imperative of contemporary societies, it is no less worrying to know that there is much, but still much, to realize in this area. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, that is why this is a task of everyone, not only of political decision-makers, public bodies and the central State but also of local authorities, entities, social institutions, companies and other economic agents and, above all, of families and interested parties themselves. This is a cross-sectional task that begins in education, which extends to training and employment and that also concerns social security and health, projecting itself in housing and transport, as well as access to the information society, culture and leisure, until in recent decades the plans, strategies and various institutional initiatives devoted to people with disabilities, both at the local and national and international levels have taken place. In addition, recently the European Disability Strategy, to be implemented until 2020, followed by the Action Plan for Disabled Persons, which lasted between 2004 and 2010, has sought to pursue the objective of removing various barriers. This strategy, also inspired by the Convention, of the United Nations, of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, has, as it could not fail to have, as its main desire for inclusiveness, or otherwise the full integration of persons with disabilities into society in general. With regard to Portugal, it is worth recalling Law No 38 / 2004, which approved the law on the basis of the prevention, empowerment, rehabilitation and participation of persons with disabilities, through which it was intended to promote equal opportunities and provide the conditions for the recognition and valorization of persons with disabilities, in particular through their best integration into society and effective integration into the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was encouraged by many of these wishes that the previous governments gave priority to public policies to support people with disabilities, despite the enormous economic and financial difficulties that the country has experienced, as a result of the almost bankruptcy situation in which Portugal was five years ago. Despite this situation, several initiatives were taken between 2011 and 2015, aimed at promoting the inclusion of people with disabilities, among which only a few examples are provided. In the field of employment, active employment measures were launched and vocational training was given to more than 5000 persons with disabilities and vocational rehabilitation to more than 18 000 persons, which represented an increase in the order of 50 % in relation to the situation only in 2011. As far as support for disabled people is concerned, despite the country's well-known difficulties, the PSD/CDS-PP governments have increased by more than EUR 3, 5 million for 2011, the financial allocations for support products for disabled people, which only represented an increase in this area in the order of 35 %. And we could talk here today about many other examples where previous governments have invested a lot of their work in this public policy. in this sense, this being a debate of greater relevance, it could not, at the end, fail to mention that what the former Executives did in this matter was always in the sense of understanding this public policy as a policy that is always desired the most impartial and that is not influenced by ideological disputes. However, in attending the debate since its inception, I cannot help but remember that this matter, which we are discussing today, has been brought to this House by one of the political parties that makes up the parliamentary coalition that the government supports. And it is interesting to note — and could give other examples — that in this regard we have the example of a situation recognized by one of the political parties of this parliamentary coalition, the CFP, on a court that the Government has made 30 % in financial support for the functioning of the National Association of Disabled Persons Sinistered at Work, the only NGO (non-governmental organisation) for people with disabilities providing support services other than that population. The CFP, on the one hand, supports the current government, but on the other hand, advocates the funding that the former Executive, led by the PSD, and in conjunction with the CDS-PP, gave to that association of disabled, a contradiction that if it did not refer to a serious matter we might even consider ironic. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD believes that the Government should continue its efforts not to back up this public policy and should not, by ideological complex, interrupt the efforts and work of the previous governments, which have not reduced the financial support they have given to people with disabilities as well as their representative organisations. The Portuguese, and especially those with disabilities, do not deserve, nor do they now understand that austerity seems to have ended, that the Government reduces some support that the former Executives, despite the national emergency situation, have given them away. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u73	For an intervention, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u74	Mr President, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities, Secretary of State for Education, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Representatives of institutions in the area of disability, My Ladies and gentlemen : In 2009 in the Assembly of the Republic, the amendment of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations was unanimously approved. Today, we meet on the initiative of the Left Block, which I welcome, to debate the policies for disability, and I allow myself to quote Mr Jorge Falcato Simões, who, in his speech, said that talking about disabled people is about people. For the Socialist Party there can only be democracy for disabled citizens if there is for these people the right to live independently and to be included in the community, i.e. if Article 19 is fully fulfilled. that of the Convention, thus guaranteeing the right to an independent life. This article of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities states that the Portuguese State recognises the equal right of all persons with disabilities to live in the community with equal choices and that it takes effective and appropriate measures to facilitate the full enjoyment by persons with disabilities of their right to full inclusion and participation. The Socialist Party has in recent years promoted both the Government and the opposition to the inclusion of people with disabilities through their valorisation as citizens of full right and defending that « only a society that integrates all people can realize all their potential». Thus, when the Government of Portugal undertakes its commitment to guarantee people with disabilities the right to an independent life, it is valuing these citizens, ensuring an important step in promoting their deinstitutionalisation and guaranteeing their freedoms and rights. The Socialist Party considers that the recognition and appreciation of these citizens also involves the creation of a unified social support that guarantees the fight against poverty and an improvement of social protection, but, in particular, that promotes empowerment and labour participation. Only with these objectives achieved is the right to an independent life. The unique social benefit for people with disabilities has in their genesis the desire to make possible to all persons with disabilities have an independent life and to see their citizenship fully recognized. More than social benefits, this new measure is a lever against inactivity, promoting full participation to the extent of people's and society's capabilities, but without fail to protect the situations of disability or deeper disability. With the unification of a single social benefit it is intended to respond to the various phases of the lives of people with disabilities, ensuring support since birth, passing through youth and culminating in the adult phase of life, but always valuing the role of these citizens and what they can do for society, contributing to what we all want. The recognition of this right therefore depends on Portuguese society in general and the Portuguese state in particular to believe in the capabilities and efforts of these citizens who daily overcome their difficulties and overcome their challenges. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One of the major challenges of disabled citizens is contact with the Public Administration services, which is now simpler and more accessible through the Inclusion Balcão, a specialized social security service for the area of disability or disability. The Balcony of Inclusion guarantees special care and an improvement in the lives of its own citizens by being able to move there in conditions that are favorable to them. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The disability policies are a constant concern of the Socialist Party and the Government that we support, and several important measures have already been promoted to support people with disabilities or disabilities, contrary to erroneous and social justice policies that were implemented by the former Government supported by the PSD and the CDS. On the basis of the State Budget for 2016, the Socialist Party promoted the increase of the specific deduction at the IRS headquarters for aggregated persons with disabilities, fixing the 4 IAS (indicating social support) the deduction for each passive or dependent subject with disabilities and the 2, 5 IAS for each ascendant with disabilities. And we also increased the disability bonus in family allowance by 3%. But even more relevant was the increase of 14, 5 % of the third person assistance allowance, a subsidy that supports people and families when they are in a situation of great fragility and that the previous government had reduced. The Socialist Party increased support for third-party assistance from 88, 37 € to 101, 17 € monthly. On the initiative of the current government this year, which is taking the lead: 23 measures, despite today, by the voice of Mrs Sandra Pereira, we have seen a real sign of denial of these same measures. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Socialist Party does not consider that everything is done; on the contrary, we are launching the foundations of a large undertaking, a work that will be developed with the clear objective of guaranteeing citizens with disabilities the right to live independently and be part of society. The work will be hard and will always involve improvements and improvements in the measures already in force today, such as, for example, the bet on a second generation inclusive school that should promote and intervene in the context of special education and the organization of educational support for children and young people that they need, ensuring access to education to people with disabilities after the end of compulsory education and throughout their lives. at the same time, we must increase the development of an inclusive territory program, in conjunction with the municipalities, which ensures physical and communication accessibility. The Socialist Party bets on a more just and democratic Portugal, committed that we are fulfilling the plan of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations. Ensuring disabled citizens the right to live independently and be included in the community for the Socialist Party is a compromise. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u75	I give the floor to Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo, whom I congratulate and whom I welcome on behalf of Parliament, at the beginning of her term of office as Member of Parliament. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : In this academic year there are still various constraints in responding to basic needs in the follow-up and consequent inclusion in secondary schools of young people with special educational needs and that Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Block of Left, decided to omit. There are still, and very significant numbers, operational assistants who, as we all recognize, are a fundamental and essential resource in individual support to provide children and young people with special educational needs. It happens, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the operational assistants who were, and are, affected by these young people and to whom schools have already taken care to provide training in this area, besides not being enough to accompany young people with special educational needs, are equally unavailable for the remaining functional areas, where they are also needed. This is due to the immediate side effect of reducing your working time to 35 hours, for which the honourable Members are present. Members of the Left Block are responsible, together with the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and, unfortunately, the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u78	...all, without exception, at the time of the proposal and subsequent decision on this matter did not safeguard the impact on the life of schools, nor on the life of students with special educational needs. As for special education teachers and lack of them, as has been mentioned by Mrs Joana Mortágua, and the past that Mr. Members of the majority who regularly rule over us refer to — still today — I must point out that, for you, apparently, the facts do not count for the political debate. But still, it is worth trying to list, recalling, some facts: at the end of four years of PSD / CDS governance, some 700 special education teachers had already been included in the framework. More: According to the data provided by the Directorate-General for Education and Science Statistics, the truth is that special education teachers in performance of functions in public schools have increased. But when? In the years of the PSD government / CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u79	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u80	Numbers: in the school year 2010 / 2011, we had a total of 5242 teachers in office; in 2015 / 2016, this number went to 6797. But only between the academic years 2014 / 2015 and 2015 / 16 the increase was 12, 7 %, i.e. from 6031 to the above 6797. Concerned, even worrying, is that the current government, in front of schools requesting the strengthening of special education teachers based on various factors—such as, for example, in the event of a reduction in the time of the specialized teachers to take advantage of or dispensation of the educational component—not valid neither the requests nor the schedules even if it is called to intervene in advance that the predictability of the situations allows. However, with regard to this matter, the truth is that you no longer hear outraged complaints from your benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u82	It's true! Who saw them and who saw them! [[Protests from BE's deputy Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u83	Special education is not an ideological theme, special education is one of the pillars of our education system and, nevertheless, there are still barriers to inclusion, especially in higher education. The CDS-PP, in the previous legislation, studied and thought about the need to carry out the articulation between secondary schools, universities and polytechnic institutes as to students with special educational needs who pursue studies and enter the special quota, or not, and whether the legal void that exists is filled in as far as support for these students is concerned. This is a problem that survives and needs to be solved. I have to ask: is this matter any of your concerns or is it not? And by the way, how do you think they can help solve it? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u84	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: First of all, I would like to greet the Left Block for bringing this issue to debate, which calls on us to reflect on the inequality and discrimination that still many of us experience. In Portugal, there are about 1 million people with some type of disability or disability. We recognize disabilities and disabilities as complex realities that cross different social, political and community aspects. Therefore, despite the already existing set of policies, we believe that the State must draw a more ambitious and long-term strategy for the structural transformation of the situation and living conditions of people with disabilities and disabilities and in a more individualized and specialized way. This should be pursued in the search for transversality and inclusion in policies and practices for all, in the same way. All rights to these citizens must be guaranteed. To this end, it is essential to compensate for the impacts of disabilities and disabilities, creating opportunities, empowering the State, social institutions and society, promoting the inclusion and quality of the services provided. In the absence of these strategies, these people and their families become more vulnerable targets and susceptible to poverty, prejudice, discrimination, social exclusion, information deprivation, unhealthy housing conditions and lifestyles and patterns of consumption involving risk behaviors. in this area, all measures and strategies are urgent and priority. It is essential to ensure health care, rehabilitation and reintegration, civil and political rights, social and formal protection, innovation and service development, adequate responses to the specific needs of each subject. It is essential to promote employability and employment, to develop funding mechanisms in a structured way, to invest in specialized education and training, to direct and increase the resources made available, to ensure universal access to needs assessment, to increase individual autonomy and consequent freedom of choice. We recognize, value and celebrate the difference as a value. Portugal has a long way to go, it faces a clear and urgent challenge at the level of policies, programmes and interventions in the field of people with disabilities and disabilities. The failures and omissions of the state are many and, in view of the time we have, we would like to share the day by day of a father and a daughter, having this cerebral palsy, reality that occurs in many Portuguese families. This father and this daughter live in Sixal and, having her daughter enrolled in a course at the School of Lisbon Letters, the father outlined a plan for her to reach the School autonomously. However, this route is impracticable. Fertagus has made available an official, but the exit of the metropolitan in the University City has no accessibility for everyone. He contacted Carris, but the special reduced mobility service is complex and delayed. However, the father did not give up his daughter. So because of his work, he comes every day to bring her to 7 hours, even though the classes only start at 10 hours. However, the obstacles did not end. The Faculty says it can't provide anyone to assist your daughter during the class period. Thus, either the daughter will have to reduce the hourly load, taking more years to complete the degree, or the father will have to hire an assistant to respond to the daughter's needs, such as going to the bathroom.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u86	Mr. Deputies, attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u87	I will finish, Mr. President. All these are obstacles that feed social exclusion and that should mobilize us all. Portugal has to make a new approach: the change of the current paradigm of capacityism to the paradigm of inclusion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u88	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : Concerns about the worsening social inequalities and injustices experienced in recent years, especially during the four years of governance of the PSD and CDS, as regards people with disabilities, have resulted in cuts in social benefits, pensions and very low support for people with disabilities. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u90	This was the concern you had for four years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u91	But, as I said, this worsening of social realities is more acutely felt by people with disabilities, who are people with more economic disabilities, who are subject to greater degradation of living conditions and who suffer the most violent consequences of unemployment and precariousness, which puts them in the social groups most affected by poverty and social exclusion. Most people with disabilities are not employed, many are not enrolled in employment centres, many go from training action to training without finding a concrete and definitive solution to the future. We are talking about the need to ensure access to employment and to employment with rights. We are talking about the need to ensure access to health, particularly in the context of treatments, therapies, physical rehabilitation, medication, technical assistance and even in access to health units and equipment. We are talking about the need to ensure access to education, knowledge, culture, fulfilling the constitutional right of children of young people and people with disabilities. We are talking about the need to eliminate physical and architectural barriers, communication and information barriers, to break down the severe restrictions on access to public transport and the constraints that continue to exist in housing buildings, public services and culture, which do not guarantee access to people with disabilities. The guarantee of accessibility is directly related to the full exercise of the social and political rights of these people and therefore we believe that the intervention and measures to be taken in this area must be cross-cutting and multi-sectoral. Legal instruments guaranteeing the rights of persons with disabilities already exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u92	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u93	I will finish, Mr. President. It is necessary, yes, to implement these rights, to carry them to life and day by day, translating them into measures to combat discrimination and exclusion and ensuring access to work and social protection, health, education, housing, sport and active participation in political and social life. It is important to concentrate on the concrete life of every day what is in law, not on the path of assistance and charitable measures, which represent a profound political and social retreat but rather on a path of progress and social justice. There we will be, as we have been, so that our intervention will respond to the problems of people with disabilities, on a path of autonomous, independent and dignified life, which is an inalienable right of all and of each. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u94	For an intervention, Mrs Manuela Tender has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u95	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : We are discussing in this House today the policies for disability. The national Parliament has played a significant role in defining the conceptual framework of policies for disability through the adoption of treaties, conventions, protocols, covenants, which, ratified in their own bodies, bind the country and enter into the design and formulation of laws and public policies focused on the dignity of the human person, respect and guarantee the realization of fundamental rights and freedoms to all citizens and equal rights, duties and opportunities. I do not believe that there are disagreements or doubts about the principles and the direction to build a society that we want free, fair, solidarity and inclusive. The Social Democratic Party, a humanist and personalist matrix party, reiterates its commitment to the construction of an inclusive society, where each citizen sees assured the same opportunities for education, training, employment, personal, social, academic and professional realization. This would require the integration of multisectoral policies, particularly in the areas of health, education, social security and employment. Only the clear perception and assessment of the incapacity, difficulties and needs of citizens at the various levels and of the multiple behavioral and environmental barriers, which prevent their integration and their full and effective participation in society under equal conditions, will enable them to design effective intervention strategies to combat discrimination, isolation, exclusion and poverty to which many citizens with disabilities are exposed. It is essential that citizens be made available the resources necessary for the full development of their capabilities and potential and for the full enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms, enabling them to make decisions, for active participation in the civil, political, economic, social and cultural spheres and for full realization. Education is, at this level, a fundamental pillar given its emancipatory potential. This is why we are concerned that there are still signs and warnings of lack of resources indispensable to adequate support to students with special educational needs: lack of special education teachers, technicians, therapists, psychologists and operational assistants in many schools, groups and units of support for multideficiency; overcrowding of classes and non-compliance with legal requirements; deficiencies in early intervention; delays in payments to entities providing support in the area of disability; lack of multidisciplinary teams, among other aspects. It is important for the Government to explain here today what concrete measures to implement in the short term to solve these problems that threaten the principle of democratic and inclusive school oriented to the success of all students, capable of responding to the diversity of characteristics and needs of each citizen, problems that may have serious personal and social repercussions, such as early school dropout, discrimination and exclusion, isolation and lack of individual realization. It is up to the Government to ensure the political measures that resolve these constraints and the subsequent inequities. Parliament cannot resign itself from its supervisory role, requiring public policies to respect the constitutionally enshrined principles and enshrined in the agreed and ratified conventions and treaties, including the principle of equality, which is also equal opportunities in access to education/training, employment, health, justice and social support. Finally, opportunities for full realization of every citizen and happiness. The Social Democratic Party does not relinquish its responsibilities, it does not resign and reiterate here its availability and commitment to, in a paradigm of interinstitutional cooperation and with the political agents, the disabled and their representative associations and other civil society institutions, continue to build paths of justice, equality and inclusion. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u96	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Very quickly, I would like to say that, when I hear this debate, I feel the need to make this last intervention in the sense that, just as each parliamentary group will answer for itself, I feel the need to respond to the Greens. A debate is a debate, and it is very interesting that it should be held. It was very important that if this debate had been promoted — and indeed, we have already welcomed the Left Block for its agenda — because the construction of ideas, criticisms, the proposal for solutions have come from it, we have the debate that is being held not only in Parliament but, of course, with society, with associations, with all those who want to build a path to solutions, and we must be available for that. There is one thing we have to know how to do: listen to the difficulties faced by people with disabilities so that the solutions are adequate and effective for the objectives they want to find. But what do I mean by this? That from the debate we cannot rest as if we had achieved an objective; what is required from the debate is that proposals and solutions be presented. I would therefore like to address the Government to say that in the next State budget, the Greens will be very careful... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u98	...with regard to the proposals...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u99	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u100	Of course, Mr. President. With this admiration of the PSD, do not tell me that the PSD does not predispose itself! As I was saying, the Greens will be very careful about the proposals that will be put forward. We want to be part of a solution and we will have as priority attention and intervention this subject of disability. In addition, I would like to announce that the Greens will present a multi-directional package for various aspects, specifically on the subject of disability, so that — and I end up as I began my first intervention — definitely no longer a 'we' and 'they' and there is indeed an integrated and inclusive society. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u101	Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded the stage of discussion of this appeal to the Government. We are now moving to the closing phase. You have the floor, by the interpelent party, BE, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u102	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers for the importance of this debate and to thank those who deserve, throughout their activity, for all their citizenship and all their struggle, the most important recognition in the fight for the rights of people with disabilities. I would like to remind you of the hunger strike that Eduardo Jorge made right here, in front of the Assembly of the Republic, saying that independent life has to take the attention of public agents. I would also like to recall all the activity of the Portuguese Disabled Association, the Association of Armed Forces Deficits, the Portuguese Multiple Sclerosis Society, the Portuguese Brain Sclerosis Associations, the Portuguese Federation of Deaf Associations. Thank you! Thank you for your presence today, thank you, above all, for your struggle and for your example of citizenship. This is the debate that also results from your request. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] We know that your struggle has helped to change the country. We look at this Assembly of the Republic, for this space and we see that there are now eyes placed in a Member, Jorge Falcato, at the State Secretary of the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities, Ana Sofia Antunes, and we realize that they, and him and her, are particularly required not to do what others have done, that they do not forget those who have sworn to be here to serve and that they ensure that the words will have consequences in acts. It is through citizenship that this debate and these political choices are made, and it is through citizenship that we must always have this political conduct. That is why it is true that there is an ideological division in the approach to disability. There is the division among those who think it is a charitable matter that often resolves, only and only, with the institutionalization of people and this vision has a reflection on public choices. Just see, for example, how the choice of public spending, public incentive, to help people with disabilities is made with this ideology: for someone who is hospitalized in an institution, the public expenditure is €980 / person; if there is a choice of that person not to be institutionalized, what the State has is much less than this €980. Therefore, it is true that there is an ideology in the current law and in the choices currently in force. Thus, when we say that our priority must be our citizenship, we do not do so with prejudice against the institutions, they are important in many situations and must be a possibility of choice; what we do is refuse that this is the only choice and the only form of public policy having consequences. It is in this way that we address the problem that we know that, when we talk about citizenship, we are then talking about rights, about emancipation of choice about the lives that people with disabilities have to have for themselves. Therefore, in today's debate there are two important points that the Government has brought to the Assembly, as a result of the agreements reached by the majority of parliament and which have also been written in the State Budget for 2016 : the independent life and pilot projects that are already trying to be put into practice and that today the Government has told us that even in 2016 they will be completed to be fully functioning in 2017. They are the reflection of a choice that was entered in the State Budget for 2016 and that shows how this parliamentary majority is so different from the PSD / CDS : it is that we write something in the State Budget and we are even making that what was written is applied in practice. We know that the challenge is great, because for these projects there must be an involvement of the community, there must be a guarantee that they are consequent, that they will be properly evaluated and may be a first step to stop being just pilot projects and become a choice of policies for people with disabilities. Now, with this concrete step, we have the consequence of those who have actually changed their priorities in the role and are changing them in practice. The social provision for persons with disabilities or disabilities and the reformulation that the Government has already entered into both the Government Programme, either in the intentions it brought to the Assembly, is fundamental to this future. But we also say with all the frontality that, for us, the most fundamental thing in this provision is that it has a basic component of citizenship, that it is even a aspect of this citizenship and not any condition of resources, not any view that we are just and only providing some help to those in poverty. No, it is the perspective of citizenship, a state that recognizes the duties it has toward all its citizens and all its citizens. But there is also what has already been said about the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, much to be done. For example, the mechanism that should follow the implementation of this Convention has not yet met once because of a lack of resources, and here, for example, is something where we cannot let go of the compromise we are raising. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that for us, the Left Block, this debate is not an end, it is a means for us to continue to insist on the essential priorities for public policy. For this reason, we have already submitted a number of initiatives that we want to take up the debate in the coming months in the areas of mobility, education and work, that I will highlight only two or three to show our priorities, in a wide range of necessary amendments. First of all, we have already tried to include in the State Budget for 2016, and we will continue to insist, the need for an allowance for spending with assistive dogs. We also insist that students of higher education with disabilities must have special attention,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u103	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u104	... and, therefore, we will demand the exemption of propines for these students, as well as we insist on the creation, within the public school, of teaching the Portuguese gestual language to all students of the reference school who thus understand it, also ensuring that teachers of the Portuguese gestual language will no longer be a task, technicians considered as such, but, yes, framed in the framework of recruitment of teachers, also dignifying the Portuguese gestual language. These are our priorities, this is the debate to which we believe, all of us are called to have a fundamental role. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u105	To close the debate, I have the floor of the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to close this debate by making it clear to everyone, as I think it has been transversally explicit, that this government is calm because it has, as it is perceived by everyone, since its origin, a consistent policy for the area of disability, with principle, medium and end. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This government makes a clear commitment to improving social responses to people with disabilities, a clear commitment to empowering these people—if that were not the case, we would not be working as we are in the MAVI (Independent Life Support Movement)—a clear bet on removing all disabled people from the poverty situation that unfortunately are still there—and this theme we are responding to the social benefit for people with disabilities or disabilities—and a clear bet on doing all of this with a basic requirement, which is always listening to those concerned. This is a basic requirement, that is, nothing on us without us, which, being not original, is the phrase that guides us. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] We are calm — I say this with great conviction — because we can look into the eyes of all disabled people and all the organizations that are represented here today to tell them that we are talking to everyone and to make it clear — and they know that it is — that we have done work. In 11 months we have work done. We created the balconies of inclusion, which are already implemented in seven district centers and that by the end of this year will be in the 18 district centers, in addition to being in the INR and also being in several municipal chambers of this country. We reviewed the system of allocation of support products, in what was possible to revise in 11 months, increasing the value of the funds made available in €500 000 and introducing new products into the lists of support products. We have also strengthened funds at the level of social responses at a value which, at the level of the annual impact, will reach an amount of EUR 7 million. And these new agreements are not left by occupational activity centres or residential homes; we talk about rehabilitation support centres for people with disabilities, we talk about the national service for the inclusion of people with disabilities, we talk about the national service for early intervention, we talk about the home support service. But we have much more to do and, as far as this is concerned, I am not ashamed to say that creating an independent life support system or creating a social benefit for people with disabilities is not an easy task; it is necessary to design, implement, prepare the services. I made no promise when, in March, I said the system would be out here, because I don't make promises, I take commitments, and, unlike others, respect them,... [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] ...because I have respect for people with disabilities, because I am a person with disabilities. There are several subjects in which we are working: the single provision, the MAVI, and not only. There are, I repeat, several subjects in which we are working and that we will have the ability to approve not in a very long time. In addition to these two measures I have tried to speak of earlier, we are reviewing the model of award of multi-purpose attestation, not only in its format, but also in reducing its costs. We are also working on today's very well-known agenda for inclusion of people with disabilities, which we are preparing for these 11 months, with all commitment, no doubt, but I cannot fail to recall that the last agenda in force, the strategy, ended in 2013 and the previous government did not even have the ability to assess its implementation in its last two years of government. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] In conclusion, I want to say that they are still counting on us in everything we can approve, and I am sure that the measures will be a lot. But at the moment, in fact, what we are concerned about and what we are committed to here is that by the end of 2016 we will have passed legislation not only for the movements of independent life but also the legislation that will ultimately create social benefits for people with disabilities or disabilities in Portugal. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u107	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this request is concluded with the Government, which has been very high, and with which, I believe, we can all congratulate ourselves. The Bureau also associates itself with all representatives of the associations on the theme of disability, who have followed this debate very closely.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u108	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u109	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u110	Mr President, through you, I would like to thank you, Mr President, for your intervention, for all the work you have done in changing the House's own infrastructure. And it will not be a fault that will withdraw this recognition from us. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP, Os Verdes and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u111	Mr, it is entirely fair recognition. At the end of the debate, I would like to congratulate the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries who were present. We will move on to the next item on our agenda, on which is that of motion for a resolution No 19 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand and Central America on the other, signed in Tegucigalpa on 29 June 2012. This proposal is included in the vote script and does not have time for debate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, let's check the quorum. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 201 meetings, to which Mr António Gameiro, of the PS, who has not been able to register, are therefore present202 Members. We therefore have the quorum to vote. Mrs. Members, first of all, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 137 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of the player and football coach Mário Wilson ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ), which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u112	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last October 3rd Mário Wilson. Born in Mozambique, still young would arrive at the competition in the national championship, having aligned to 19 years at the Sporting Club of Portugal, where national champion would be consecrated in 1951. From 1951 to 1963 he joined the team of the Académica de Coimbra, as a student-player, becoming a coach from there on, leaving an unforgettable mark in the history of that emblem, with the conquest of a second place in 1967 and a place at the end of the Taça de Portugal. He would be the first Portuguese coach to be consecrated National Champion for Sport Lisboa and Benfica, at the time of 1975 / 76, a club to whose technical command would come back a few times, having won the 1979 / 80 Cup of Portugal and the 1995 / 96 Cup of 1995. His technical career was very rich, having oriented the National Selection in the campaign for the qualification for the European Championship, between 1978 and 1980, and ensured the technical command of numerous national clubs: Football Clube de Alverca, Sporting Clube Olhanense, Sport Clube Olhanense, Sport Clube Unione Torreense, Louetano Sports Clube, Clube Sportivo da Cova da Piedade, Clube Sportivo Estoril Praia, Boavista Soutebol Clube, Vitória Sport Clube, Football Clube Tirsense and Clube de Soutebol Os Belenenses. In addition to a life dedicated to sport, he never left the civic participation aside, courageously affirming his support for Mozambique's self-determination and the cause of freedom. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 7 October 2016, expresses its regret at the death of Mário Wilson and addresses to his relatives, friends and admirers his condolences».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u113	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House stood, a minute's silence.]] We now turn to vote No 135 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Rejection for the possible application of sanctions to Portugal ( PSD ), which will be read by Secretary Emília Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last July, the European Commission decided not to apply monetary sanctions to Portugal for alleged infringement of the excessive deficit procedure. It was a correct decision after a trial that was not marked by wisdom. Reporting to the period 2013 - 2015, the open case against Portugal ( and Spain ) alludes to the insufficient budgetary effort in compliance with the 3% rule and the structural adjustment. From the very first moment, the PSD has expressed its position to the Portuguese, and to the European bodies. Indeed, the possible application of sanctions was and is unfair and unjustifiable. The efforts made by the Portuguese, and the objective results achieved by the country, were real and are undeniable. The results of fiscal consolidation between 2011 and 2015 show that Portugal reduced the nominal deficit by more than 8 percentage points of GDP and made a structural adjustment of almost 7 percentage points. In addition, in 2015 the result of the structural budgetary effort was influenced by last-minute statistical determinations that the country could not control or anticipate. Both the European Commission and the Government have shown in July the recognition of Portugal's effort and this has resulted in the non-application of sanctions. It makes no sense now to equalise the application of a sanction within the framework of the suspension of Community funds, because, as in July, it would be totally unjustified. Nevertheless, on that occasion the current government has committed itself to a set of objectives for the years 2016 and 2017, whose compliance is also important to avoid the implementation of the suspension of funds. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic : 1 — Expresses its rejection of any form of sanction following the worsening of the excessive deficit procedure against Portugal insofar as it corresponds to an unfair and unjustified decision; 2 — Considers that the conduct of this and other equivalent processes cannot ignore the objective circumstances in which the budgetary results have not taken place nor the conditionalities beyond the efforts of national governments and peoples that may adversely affect them.’
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u115	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, agreement has already been obtained for a split vote of paragraphs 1 and 2 of the vote that has just been read. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on paragraph 1. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] Let us now vote for paragraph 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the withdrawal of the reservation under Article 10 ( g ). the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Organisation for the Exploration of Meteorological Satellites ( EUMETSAT ) adopted at Darmstadt on 1 December 1986. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall vote on motion for a resolution No 19 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, signed in Tegucigalpa on 29 June 2012. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u116	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u117	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u118	Mr President, I would just like to inform you that, with regard to the vote we have just held, the Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u119	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Set the maximum number of students per class ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, the bill we just voted on is low to 8. We shall also vote in general on Bill No 148 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to reduce the number of students per class with a view to improving the teaching-learning process ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, this bill also lowers the Commission to 8. We shall vote, in general, on Bill No. 154 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establish a maximum number of students by class and by teacher in pre-school education and in basic and secondary education(BE). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, this diploma also falls to 8. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 213 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Promoting school success through strategic and appropriate class size ( CDS-PP ). With regard to this draft resolution, the separate vote of paragraph 1 has also been consensualized and then of the remaining numbers. Let us then vote on paragraph 1 of draft resolution No 213 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the CFP and abstentions from the PS, the PS and the Greens.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining numbers. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CFP were adopted.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 216 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government gradually reduce the number of students per class ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 217 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Measures to promote school success ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mr. Porfirio Silva ( PS ). Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u120	You have the floor, sir. Mr. Porfirio Silva ( PS ). — Mr President, I would like to announce that, with regard to the vote on these last diplomas, whether on the number of students per class or on the promotion of school success, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u121	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Amadeu Soares Albertaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u122	Mr President, I would like to announce that in relation to the votes of the drafts of lein 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), 148 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 154 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and draft resolutions 213 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 216 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 217 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) the PSD Parliamentary Group shall submit a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u123	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I think we are in a position to proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 416/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the regulation of Law No 30 / 2010 of 2 September for the protection against exposures to electrical and magnetic fields derived from lines, installations and electrical equipment ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the vote, but not yet at the end of our work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u124	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u125	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u126	Mr President, it is only to announce that, with regard to the last vote, we will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-07.u127	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be announced that next week on 10 and 11 October, Monday and Tuesday, respectively, there will be parliamentary talks of the CFP in Porto, for which we wish the best results. The next plenary session will be held on Wednesday, 12, at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda: recall of the XX anniversary of the CPLP ; appraisal of draft resolution No 482 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make available to the competent municipal, inter-municipal and multi-municipal authorities access to the mechanism established for the automatic allocation of social energy tariffs as a contribution to the adequacy and improvement of the social water tariffs approved by them ( BE ) ; draft resolution No 464/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government intervene on the national road No 2 in order to transform this route into a « product » of economic interest and tourist promotion ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; joint assessment of draft law No 135 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Combats precariousness by preventing the use of active public employment measures to meet the permanent needs of public services, companies and other entities ( CFP ), in general, and draft resolution No 497 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Measures for the eradication of employment-inclusion contracts as a mechanism for the completion of permanent needs, for the recognition of labour contracts and for the monitoring of the stages promoted by IEFP ( BE ) ; draft resolution assessment No 494 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop the measures necessary for UNICER to fully comply with the commitments made under the project PIN in Salgada Stones ( The Greens ) ; and finally to assess the report of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Process that led to the sale and resolution of the International Funchal Bank ( BANIF ). Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 8 minutes.]]
