ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. As we await the arrival of the members of the Government, I ask Secretary Emília Santos to read the file, which is reasonably long today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First of all, I refer to motions for resolutions Nos 24 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 25 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Principality of Andorra to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in New York on 27 September 2015, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 26 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the British Virgin Islands on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 5 October 2010, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 27 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Turks and Caicos Islands on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 21 December 2010, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 28 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the States of Guernsey on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 9 July 2010, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 29 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Services between the Portuguese Republic and the United Arab Emirates, signed in Lisbon on 27 July 2015, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 30 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the amendment to Article 8. the and other amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court on the crime of aggression adopted at the Kampala Review Conference, from 31 May to 11 June 2010, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 31 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the amendment to Article 124. the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal, adopted in The Hague on 26 November 2015, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 32 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the strengthened Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, signed in Astana on 21 December 2015, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 33 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and Belize on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in London on 22 October 2010, which falls to 2. the Commission ; and 34 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Federation of St.Cristovão and Neves on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, signed in Bassetere on 29 July 2010, which falls to 2. the Commission. They also entered the table, and were admitted, the projects of lein.os 344 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Protects the pregnant, puerperal or lactating worker in the experimental period by making it compulsory to give a prior opinion of the ISCED in the event of a complaint of the employment contract by the employer ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 345 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Promotes the urgent regulation of parental responsibilities and the allocation of food in situations of domestic violence and the application of coercion or ancillary penalty measures involving distance between parents ( PS ), lower than 1. the Commission, and 346 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Integrates the representation of the National Council for Youth in the Economic and Social Council by amending Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the following draft resolutions: No 541 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Greater autonomy for contracts by the entities of the National Health Service ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission; points 542 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Preservation of memory and history of Forte de Peniche ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission; points 543 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Suspension of the « Revive programme » and compulsory public scrutiny on concession proceedings ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission; points 544 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Valuation and promotion of the Lorvão Monastery ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission; points 545 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to New York ( President of the HR ), which falls to 2. the Commission; points 546 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Promotes improved access to Portuguese teaching courses abroad and promotes its pedagogical quality ( PS ), which falls to 2. the Commission; points 547 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reintroduce teachers at the corresponding level of the teaching career ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; and No 548 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — São Bento Station ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission. Mr President, there is also a report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees which I am referring to. The request of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Administrative and Prosecutor's Office of Funchal, P.A. No 10 / 2016, the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Luís Vilhena ( PS ), an electoral circle of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, to testify as a witness in the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us, then, enter our agenda, which consists in the debate, in the specialty, of the proposals of lein. 36 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2017 and 37 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017. It was established at the Conference of Leaders that Articles 2 would be discussed today. o 108. the proposal of Law No 37 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017. We will start the debate with the discussion of Chapter I — General provisions, with interventions from all parliamentary groups being planned. First of all, for an intervention relating to Article 2. o — Strengthened value, Mr João Oliveira, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government:Go further into the advances that were foreseen in the proposal for a State budget and counter negative aspects that it contained was what we proposed to do in the debate in general and it is with this perspective that we now take part in the debate in the speciality. The action of the CFP has indeed been decisive so that today, in this debate in the speciality that begins, we may be discussing new progress and wider responses to the replacement and conquest of rights. This is the case, for example, in the Public Administration, of the prospect of starting the process of defrosting careers, of increasing the meal allowance to 11 € per month still during 2017, of combating precariousness in the Public Administration or of consolidating the mobility of employees of the Public Administration. Also in the corporate public sector the action of the CFP was decisive so that we were today discussing the replacement of collective bargaining, with the replacement of rights for the workers of their companies. The action of the CFP was still decisive in terms of pensions, so that today we could be discussing the proposal on the table. The CFP did not give up discussing the increase in the real value of pensions, and this proposal was incorporated by the Government in the initial proposal of the State budget. But we do not give up discussing a wider increase in the debate in the specialty and, too, the government has responded to the discussion that the CFP started, to the action that the CFP has developed, presenting a proposal that does not cease to consider a response to the increase in minimum pensions. It is true that it does not correspond to the proposal of the CFP, an increase of €10 for all pensions, but we must value the response given by the government also in extending the increase in minimum pensions because it is important. With regard to support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, farmers and fishermen, we are also discussing proposals resulting from the decisive action of the CFP, with concrete proposals that advance in this direction. Also in support of children and young families, in particular in family allowances, in enlargement to the fourth step and in the extension of family allowances in the first three years of life, we will discuss proposals in which the action of the CFP was crucial for further progress to be discussed. The CFP's action was still decisive in support of the unemployed, in support of patients and in responding to health professionals' problems, in response to students' problems — with the support of needy students — or in tax policy matters, where it is possible today, too, we will be discussing proposals for the most appropriate taxation of the large economic and financial groups and the relief of the burden of taxes on workers and the people. For all this it was decisive the action of the CFP, and these proposals that the CFP brings to discussion in the specialty go in this direction. Let me say one last word, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the proposals of the PSD and the CDS-PP that we will face in this debate in the speciality. The way the PSD and the CDS-PP found to hide their true intention to return to the policy of the past was to present proposals that say exactly the opposite of what they have done in the past four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u6	And, in some cases, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they do so with absolute rejection. PSD and CDS-PP, which for four years have frozen and cut pensions, now present proposals on the contrary, waiting for us to give them some kind of credibility. [[CDS-PP protests.]] PSD and CDS-PP, which for four years successively dropped proposals to reduce the special payment on account, are now presenting proposals exactly contrary to what they did. [[We almost raided the country!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u7	E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, not less absurd — this is not a question of absurdity, but a question of propaganda and demagogy — it is the proposal for the metro. After four years of cutting investments on the subway, after four years of firing workers, compromising the metro's operationality, they now propose investments. Shame on you, because rejection is not enough! Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the CFP, the framework of this State budget remains this: we appreciate the progress and we believe that the answer should go further. The answer to the country's problems needs to be different. But in order to be another, we also need to get rid of the constraints that continue to be maintained in the debate on the State budget, in relation to debt, to the euro, the need to face the monopolistic capital domain in our country. We will also put forward proposals to be discussed in the specialty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u8	Mr Duarte Pacheco of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After the hearings in the Commission and the explanations, as a rule, not given by the members of the Government to the questions of Members, we are starting the debate in plenary on the speciality of the State budget. It is a Budget that we know has the support of the PS, the Left Block and the PCP, even though some Members are twisting themselves in the chairs with the support they are giving them. It is a budget based on a budget implementation that has to resort to extraordinary measures not to stay away from the promised targets: from a cut in public investment never seen — above a low investment value — to permanent captives greater than EUR 400 million, thus undermining to the limit the quality of public services for citizens, delaying the earlier urgent capitalisation of the General Deposit Box, all this constitutes a real plan b so that the targets are not far from the promised. It is also a budget that is based on economic growth lower than the government inherits, and which has only recovered, it is lost! , with the model that the PSD has always defended, thus showing the failure of the economic growth strategy it had for the country. They make the party today with the model that the PSD defended, supported by external demand and not by internal consumption. That's the factual truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u10	You have to read INE data better!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u11	It is a Budget that provides for a budget consolidation for 2017 which is based on more taxes, at more rates, on extraordinary revenues, they come from BPP ( Banco Privado Português ) or Banco de Portugal. It is a budget that was so good, so good, but that it received over 400 amendments, two thirds of which came from the parties that support it, seeking to partially respond to criticisms that the PSD had previously raised and that you had previously dismissed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u13	It is also a Budget that does not have a vision of the future, does not have a direction, does « navigation on the coast », generating neither trust nor investment. Therefore, the PSD presented proposals in three areas that we consider to be structural for the future of Portugal : in attracting investment, to resume growth and job creation levels of 2015 ; in social security, to ensure its future sustainability; in decentralization, transferring skills and means to municipalities, bringing the state closer to citizens. We have put together another set of proposals aimed at countering the scandalous rules and behaviour of this government, whether as regards the non-extraordinary increase in minimum pensions, Mr Oliveira! — because they had already been increased by the previous government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u14	Whoa, whoa!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u15	... either that this increase occurs from January and not on the eve of the elections, in a pure electoralist logic, or that we restore the dignity of the State in the scandal of the General Deposit Box and its administration or, still, to ensure independence of the public television service. With these proposals adopted, Mr President, we do not have a good budget, but we have a much better budget than we have today. This is our contribution, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, for a vision of the future, so that an Budget will have a path to economic growth and to be able to provide better living conditions for Portuguese people, always and always, to think of Portugal and Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u16	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u17	In order to intervene by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have been waiting in this speciality discussion process to see the programmatic proposals of the PSD and the CDS that reflect the essence of their differences with this government and this budget, but I must say that it was a disappointment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u19	Are you going to tell me you're going to introduce yours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u20	We did not find the increase in VAT (tax on value added) of the restoration, we did not find cuts in social support, we did not find the maintenance of the surcharge, we did not find the freezing of pensions, we did not even find the end of the cuts in public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u21	What about the IMI?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u22	Therefore, the first good news of this Budget is that the program on the right has disappeared. The program on the right went from inevitable to indisputable! We may call it 'the one whose name cannot be pronounced', at least until a devil appears who saves the right of his own catastrophe and allows him to return to power with his programme. [[Congratulations from BE.]] What we found on the right, besides this, were opportunistic proposals to ride good measures and victories that did not happen because of the right, but despite and against the wishes of the PSD and the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u24	The proposals for amendments to this budget and the progress we have made in this budgetary procedure are the result of work, determination and persistence in a negotiation process that was not easy, which could and should have gone further, but which has results to present to the country. We can say today, 9 out of every 10 pensioners not only that they have just been afraid of losing the value of their pensions, but also that their pensions will have an increase of at least 6 € during 2017. And we can also tell the poorest pensioners that they can and should require the solidarity complement for the elderly because he is there to help them and he no longer has the cuts left by the right. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We can now tell 90 % of the taxpayers that January already arrives without the overtax of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and we can tell the other 10 % that the elimination of the overtax of IRS will take place in November and that no worker will have to wait for 2019 to pay no more surcharge, as proposed on the right. We can finally — and perhaps as important as these measures — tell the hundreds of thousands of precarious people working for the state and supporting public services in our country that the Portuguese State no longer accepts its invisibility. Your invisibility is over! There is a majority, a government and a state that recognises the existence of these deficiencies and, therefore, we can tell them that they must demand their regularization as workers of the Portuguese state with rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]] This majority and the state have a duty to respond to the demands of these precariouss, binding them to the State and ensuring that work with rights exists and that the State is a good person. This Budget is only possible because it is not a Right Budget. This Budget is only possible and only exists because it is not a Central Block Budget. This Budget is only possible and only exists because it is not a Socialist Party Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u25	It's from the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u26	This budget has the European constraints, it has the weight mark of the debt, but it does not hide the process of hard negotiation on the left, which brought it here and certainly has assumed and proudly the mark of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u27	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has classified this exercise as incoherent, inconsistent and electoralist in the general debate of this Budget. Of course, starting from here, it is not possible to reach the end of this debate in the specialty with a good budget for the country. That won't happen. But this year, as indeed last year, the CDS does not resign itself from the mission responsible to represent in this Parliament all those who have relied on us in electoral terms and which, of course, do not appear in this budget year made by the left-wings, by the Government of the Socialist Party with the support given it by the Communist Party and the Block of Left. On this support, I must say that it was clear the shame they have in it, because if the Left Block and the PCP were proud of the work they had in this Budget they would not have spent half the time of their initial interventions talking about the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u30	They would have spent their time talking about their contribution to this budget. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But it is also significant because four years have passed, the same ones that a majority PSD/CDS led to save the country from the dramatic situation in which it was, saying that the PSD and CDS did not take those measures because we lived an exceptional time, but because they were the measures that convincingly PSD and CDS believed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u32	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u33	Now that they can do a budget exercise without the weight of the troika, with which we had to govern, they say: "After all, the PSD and the CDS now do the opposite of what they did in the government."
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u35	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what's the shock? They didn't realize what we always said, that we only took those measures because we had to save the country from the situation that had been put in the last time the left had ruled? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] What part of this explanation did you not understand? We also ask: what was the last part of the year of that mandate, when the troika was no longer here, that you did not understand? It's just that they find it again in this Budget! They find again investment attractiveness measures, for example in IRC ( corporate income tax ), as we did in 2015 and we propose for 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u36	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u37	You can find minimum pensions, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we increase every year! Every year: in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 increased the minimum pensions you now want to freeze.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u38	All minus 700,000!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u39	That's extraordinary! Despite the difficulties we had at that time, we did not forget the pensioners who had lower pensions! [[BE's protests.]] And now, with all freedom, you want to forget them, increasing the highest pensions in a value greater than what the pensioners receive on a monthly basis from the minimum pensions. Extraordinary fairness on the left, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u40	All right! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u41	But we also find other measures, such as those relating to family taxation and the family quotient. It was our option in 2015, saying that this was how equity was guaranteed to families, and we presented this measure again on the basis of coherence. That's why, sirs. Members, the CDS proposals change, but only because of changing circumstances, which was only possible to Portugal because a responsible government removed the country from the difficult situation between 2011 and 2015. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The other proposals are the reason for the coherence we maintain in that which is programmatically our alternative.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u43	This is reflected in pensions, taxation for families, measures for people with disabilities, family allowance, rent or education, structural areas that we understand continue to be a positive reformist process for the country. But it is also reflected in the area of economic growth or the functioning of the State, where we present proposals for modernization and seriousness, for example in the General Deposit Box. It is extraordinary that at a time as difficult as the one in which we ruled, to which you call "the right that imposes everything and something else, which defends all interests", we have not been as ashamed as we are now in relation to the General Deposit Box. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u44	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u45	We didn't have managers hiding returns! We did not have dues above established limits! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u46	They had a Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u47	Mrs. Members of the PCP and the Left Block, this happens only in the time of left-wing governance, which you support!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u49	So this is the second fiscal year in a country that has freed itself from the weight of a troika that the left had brought from the last time it ruled. But it is also a budgetary exercise in which a ashamed left, once again, will be much less than what you promised electorally and even more than what you promised in the past. As an example, Mrs. Members of the Left Block and PCP, you come to talk about consistency, but in 2015 when they governed PSD and CDS, they demanded an increase of 25 € in pensions and now they are content with 4 €!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u50	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u51	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, consistency would be at least a little closer to what they were saying when they were opposed. If anyone has to be ashamed, it's certainly not the CDS bench, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Pacheco.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u52	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This budget shows that there was an alternative to the PSD/CDS government austerity policy. This Budget proves that it is possible to grow without impoverishing. This Budget is the real clean exit from Portugal from the ties of sanctions and from the ties of public accounts. This budget also promotes good public accounts, economic growth, more employment and returns. This budget will lead Portugal in 2017 to the lowest deficit in the last 42 years — 1, 6 % of GDP — and one of the historical primary balances — 2, 9 % of GDP. This is the Budget that gives continuity to family income recovery. The tax burden fell from 2015 to 2016 and will fall from 2016 to 2017, especially for income from work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u54	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u55	From 1 January 2017, the overtax will no longer fall to 91 % of the taxpayers, i.e. more than 1 000 000 taxpayers will no longer pay the overtax of IRS. But this is the Budget that promotes a generalized real increase in pensions: minimum rural and social pensions increase 6 € and pensions since 2. the minimum pension step increases 10 € up to 628 €. It is a Budget that promotes this uncut increase in the solidarity complement for the elderly, as did the right, PSD and CDS, in four years of government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a real increase of EUR 200 million, a value greater than the PSD and CDS have done for four years for minimum rural and social pensions. But this is also a real increase of those who truly believe in the social state and the pension scheme, contrary to what they intended PSD and CDS as they wrote in the Stability and Growth Programme for 2015, i.e. wanted to cut 600 million euros in pensions in 2016, 2017 and 2018. And now they appear in this discussion in the specialty defending a generalized increase in pensions for 2017! This is nothing more than a fake session and a lack of truth on the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget reinforces social cohesion because it increases family allowance, especially for families in very difficult economic situations. It is the Budget that strengthens the solidarity complement for the elderly and the social income of insertion, which promotes the universalization of school textbooks to 1. the cycle, is the Budget that promotes the universalization of pre-school education, is the Budget that promotes the family doctor for all Portuguese and is also the Budget that promotes the extension of the continuing care network. But it is also the Budget that promotes public investment and private investment. When the Socialist Party reached the Government there were only EUR 4 million of incentives in Portuguese companies through the Portugal 2020 programme. By the end of this year, incentives to companies for private investment will be EUR 450 million and on 31 December 2017 will reach EUR 1000 million. This is also the Budget that promotes more employment. at the end of the first half of 2016 more 91,000 jobs were created compared to the first half of 2015. The thesis on the right that if we increased the national minimum wage, we would not be able to promote employment and that we would still worsen unemployment. Today we have more jobs, at a time when the active population has grown. This is the budget which promotes the effective fight against job insecurity in the public administration and in the business sector of the State, but it is also a budget without plans b, without additional measures, without yellow or red cards by the European Commission, a budget that has the credibility of the Council of Public Finance, the credibility of the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF. The right, in his speeches this year, was unable to cite an international organization that criticized the macroeconomic scenario of this Budget, because the macroeconomic scenario that presides over this Budget is statistically plausible, as the Council of Public Finance said, and deserves the confidence of the European Union and international financial institutions. This budget will lead Portugal to have more exports, more public investment, more private investment, more employment and, above all, more economic growth. It was for this greater good that the Socialist Party contributed and will contribute to the end of appreciation in the speciality of the State budget, as is its role, because we are sure that with this Budget, the Portuguese and the Country will be better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u56	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in view of the interventions that have already been made, in particular those of the PSD and the CDS, I think there is a fundamental thing that needs to be remembered here. It is that those very painful measures that they launched for the Portuguese and that they said they had to take because the troika forced them to do so do not forget. I would like to remind you of what the Portuguese eventually do not forget: you said that once the troika was the result of these transitional measures, the cuts in wages, pensions, social support and all that the Portuguese families and also the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ended. The troika has gone away and you have maintained the measures. Then they said they would end only at the end of the legislature. But the legislation is over and the measures have continued. [[Protests from Members, PSD, Hugo Lopes Soares and, CDS-PP, Cecilia Meireles.]] I know they don't want us to talk about the past, but all of this has a continuity, and this continuous reading has to be done. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] They then said that the measures would continue for more than a whole legislature. So until 2019 things would continue in the same way and we managed to preview the film after 2019. So when we talk about credibility of word here, I think we need to be careful not to kiss our feet about some things that actually do not have credibility. With regard to the Budget — on which the PSD was so eager for the Greens to speak — I would like to say that there is an issue which is obvious and fundamental, which is the continuity of income replacement. This is an issue which was already coming from the State Budget for 2016 and which would necessarily have to continue in 2017, which has already been mentioned in several interventions. The Greens considered, however, that it was now essential to go further, to give more space. This isn't stopping! Some measures have already been envisaged in the State budget for which The Greens have worked and on which they have dialogued with the Government. I refer, for example, to the consecration of a standard relating to the removal of asbestos, i.e. the creation of a plan for the continuity of the removal of asbestos, which is a fundamental issue; the need for a family doctor for all Portuguese, something that you said would do until the end of the legislature, but which you did not do, so someone has to do; and the increase in social support. If there is something that you have done is to promote poverty in Portugal, and it is now necessary to reverse this cycle, and social support is instruments that cannot be neglected in relation to this objective. Another example has to do with the need for support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The Greens therefore proposed the fall of IRC for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises—not for large companies, such as the PSD and the CDS—and for companies that settle inside, in order to re-enhancing small economic activity, which enhancing the country and actually re-enhancing the big economy, which is fundamental. On the other hand, some amendments which have now been proposed by the Greens in the field of expertise, and which we hope will be supported by the other parliamentary groups, are bound by an absolute need to promote collective transport. We aim to improve the environmental standards of large cities, we have a duty to create the right to mobility of populations, we have a duty to promote measures to combat climate change, and the collective transport sector is fundamental. For this reason, the Greens propose a specific deduction within IRS for social passes and a reduction in the price of the social pass Sub23, without condition of resources by 25 % for all young university students. The Greens also propose more means for the monitoring of nature. This reinforcement needs to be continued, so we propose, by 2017, at least 50 more nature watchers. Greens also present proposals at VAT and IRS level to create tax incentives for the purchase of equipment and materials that promote energy efficiency. As for the school milk programme, the Greens propose their extension to vegetable milk. When, last year, we managed to integrate lactose-free milk into the programme, there were several parents and education officers who went to the Green Parliamentary Group asking that we also battle with the enlargement of the programme to vegetable milk. Here we are considering this just proposal and you have proposed it. We also propose more incentives and the State's commitment to the promotion of short marketing circuits. This country needs to work to promote local production and consumption. On the other hand, we also put forward proposals for the elimination of architectural barriers. We must set concrete objectives in this area, which is also linked to the mobility of the whole population, particularly those with reduced mobility. We also propose more psychologists in schools. We need to create the goal of bringing the number of psychologists in schools closer to a ratio that is appropriate for our students' follow-up and the promotion of the objectives that we all want. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these are some of the proposals presented here by the Greens, are proposals that meet the needs of many Portuguese people and the specific life of people and we naturally hope that they will be welcomed by the other parliamentary groups. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u58	Mr Pedro Nuno Santos, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, at the beginning of the debate on the speciality of the State budget, I would like to wish Parliament a good debate. The budget proposed by the Government is in your hands, depends on this debate and on the votes of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Today we have a democracy centered in our Parliament, we do not have a governmentalised Parliament, which is good for democracy, and it is even better when all parliamentary groups participate in this debate with proposals so as to provide that different views of society can be confronted, different views than could be the State Budget for 2017. We have a strong democracy, a solid democracy, a stable democracy and for this we contribute all the parliamentary groups represented in this House. Let me tell you a few things about the State Budget for 2017 and what has already been said in this Parliament. We could not hold a serious debate on the State Budget for 2017 without looking at the 2016 budget implementation. The 2016 budget implementation gives credibility to the proposal presented for 2017. Mr Duarte Pacheco also said in line with what the leader of the major opposition party said yesterday, that the results of the budget implementation for 2016 are achieved with extraordinary measures, with a plan b. And what is the plan b of which the PSD speaks? In the head, it's permanent captivating. Mr Duarte Pacheco said here that the 2016 permanent captives were more than EUR 400 million. It is exactly EUR 445 million. But this is not plan b, is that they were planned in the State budget, in such plan a. And, however, it is 445 million euros in 2016 that compare with EUR 534 million in 2015 and EUR 578 million in 2014. It is not, at least in our case, plan b, it is the same plan a! The leader of the major opposition party also spoke in asset revaluation, as one of the measures that would incorporate such plan b. Because if they were to see the State Budget for 2016 there is the asset revaluation. It's not plan b, it's really plan a! They also talked about the capitalisation of the General Deposit Box, which is not made in 2016 to facilitate the exit of the excessive deficit procedure, when everyone knows that the European Commission, in writing, said that any capitalisation operation of the General Deposit Box was not taken into account in the assessment of the exit of the PDE ( Excess deficit procedure ) by Portugal. There's no plan b, it was really plan a! And, yes, it irritates the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They also said here that we have the growth we have — for those who have already forgotten, in the third quarter of 2016 it was the largest of the European Union — against the model of growth of the government and with the model of growth of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u60	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u61	What does the PSD mean by this? In other words, the growth model of the PSD was the external demand to contribute to growth. If you see what economic growth has provided in 2014 and 2015, you will quickly see that domestic demand makes a positive contribution and that net external demand makes a negative contribution. [[The PSD member Carlos Abreu Amorim's laughs.]] Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim is laughing. Why did net external demand make a negative contribution? Because imports have grown more than exports, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim. What happens in 2016 is the opposite of what happened in 2014 and 2015. contrary to what you say — and can see INE statistics — private consumption has increased, but explains the increase in economic growth, especially net external demand, which is positive, contrary to what happened in 2014 and 2015. No, your growth model was not export, it was domestic demand. [[PSD member Antonio Leitão Amaro's laughs.]] Now it's Mr. Antonio Leitão Amaro who's laughing. But as the State Budget debate will tell us - the results of net external demand in 2014 and 2015 so that we can also laugh at what we ourselves are saying. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr Duarte Pacheco said, in line with what several others are also saying, that this government makes a government in view, has no strategy. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u62	It is true that we do not have your strategy because, of course, this government and this majority want a more coherent, more prosperous country with higher levels of equality and which defends the social state. It is not your strategy, it is true, but if you want to understand better what the strategy of the government is, I will challenge you to ask the 600 000 workers in Portugal who receive the minimum wage what the strategy of this government is and what yours was. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Ask the pensioners, those who also have pensions of 300 €, Mrs Cecilia Meireles — they are not minimal, are pensions of 300 €, of 375 € — what is the strategy of this government and what was yours. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Don't get upset, Mrs. Member, because I'm still going to challenge you to ask more. Ask the employees... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] As for the accounts, Mrs Deputies, for the first time, we have a budget deficit which dispenses with a amending budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why we can say what we're saying. Ask public servants what our strategy is and what your strategy was with regard to civil servants and public administration. Ask the young families, who saw the family allowance increase, what is our strategy and what was your strategy. And if you do not want to listen to us, ask the Portuguese what strategy this government has and what strategy your parliamentary group had. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You also do an interesting exercise in saying that increasing pensions in August is electoralist. [[No, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u63	What a strange idea! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u64	The term 'electoralist' is always a great argument. I never understood very well because the term 'electoralist' is used in politics. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Electionist is a way to assume that the measure is good. So they explain: do you think that if the extraordinary increase in pensions were in January, pensioners would be confused about whether the increase had been made by this government or by you? Will public officials, who had the replacement of public service salaries in 2016, arrive to October and be in doubt if it was PS, BE, PCP and The Greens or PSD and CDS-PP to restore their salaries? Oh, my God! It's strange your argument! And it was important that you explore it a little more to facilitate this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Finally, I would like to point out that the CDS also does an interesting exercise here, saying: « You are only putting back what you are putting back because of the governance of the PSD and the CDS allowed it». It's true! That's a great truth! We're just putting back what we're putting back because you guys cut what we're putting back. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a good debate for all and for all! Thank you very much! [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u65	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, in her speech we could well tie up that popular saying « do what I say, do not do what I do». [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] It is because the honourable Member says: "Let's integrate the deficiencies into the public administration." however, the facts show that, in one year, this government increased the public administration deficit by 10 %. I mean, one thing is what he says, another thing is what they do. We know, that's typical of your party and left. [[It's just conversation!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u67	Secondly, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs says: "It is true that we have taken over, it is true that we have added the question of the General Deposit Box". I would say to you more: it is also true that you have cut 20 % in public investment, it is also true that you have created tax forgiveness. That is, they needed extraordinary measures to try to meet the goals they committed to. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u68	Thirdly, we ask ourselves: why is all this? Because 2015 growth was bad, it was small,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u69	He was going down the peak!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u70	...and the economy needed a new boost? But now we're going to grow 1, 2 %—it's over! Not even what you and I can do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u71	Mr João Pinho de Almeida also spoke for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to make it clear. It is true that we have talked about the possibility that this government has to make certain choices because the country is not currently in the situation where it was when the previous government began its duties. So let's not demagogy about this. Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, when the PSD/CDS Government began functions, the salaries in public service were already cut. Whoever cut them was a government led by José Socrates, of which many members of the current government. Who started paying salaries in the Public Administration was the PSD Government / CDS, which returned more to the Public Administration than you had cut. Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, when you want to compare what the effects of governance are, compare the starting point of a government and the arrival point of that government. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The PSD/CDS government started functions with troika and went out without troika, started functions with cuts of pensions and salaries made by the Socialist Party and went out with returns of pensions and salaries made by the PSD and the CDS. That's the big difference. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u73	The discussion of Article 2 has been completed. the, we turn to Article 3. o — Participatory budget Portugal. Mr Diogo León has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the inclusion in this proposal for the State Budget Act of a National Participatory Budget, an experience in which Portugal will also be a pioneer at a global level, because bringing citizens and civil society closer to the direct political decision, placing them at the heart of this same decision-making process, is a sign of maturity, but it is also a sign of the rejuvenation of our democracy, which materializes an increasingly necessary coexistence between our representative system and other forms of more participatory and plural political dynamisation. We therefore put forward a proposal to devote 10 % of the funds allocated to the national participatory budget for projects affected by the aspirations, innovations and the wishes of Portuguese youth, thus creating a national young participatory budget. And we propose this because it is of the interest, present and future, of our democracy, to enable young Portuguese people to assume greater political participation in the present and the future, fully assuming a contemporary notion of citizenship. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u75	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government brings the new participative budget. I naturally highlight the merit of the initiative in this which is a more active form of participation on the part of citizens. But this is an experience that already exists in many municipal chambers: Lisbon has a budget of EUR 2, EUR 5 million, as well as Cascais has a budget of EUR 1, EUR 5 million. Therefore, there were high expectations about what would be the funding for the Participatory Budget for 10 million people. Well, the amount allocated is EUR 3 million. Now, using a word that is very close to the Prime Minister, I would say that it is a little bit « little bit». And the truth is that I am afraid that between the money they spent on the announcement of the measure and what they are going to spend on divulging it through the country, however, they run out of the ceiling without the Portuguese having the opportunity to present any kind of proposal. In addition, I listened very carefully to Mr. Diogo Leon when he spoke about the youth participatory budget. Well, the amount allocated is €300 000. Well, there are municipal cameras that have more than this. How is it possible that, at national level, the budget for youth is €300 000? Oh, my God! This is undoubtedly the result of the importance that the PS gives to Portuguese youth in addition to regrettable. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u77	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Chapter II — Basic provisions for the implementation of the budget. He signed up to intervene on Article 8. o — Budget transfers — Mr Nuno Magalhães. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, our proposal to amend this Article 8. it has a main objective and two essential reasons. The main objective is not to reduce the number of security forces and services officers, which will happen if this budget proposal is approved. The first essential reason is to make the State a person of good, a person of word and to honor his word. The second essential reason, no less important, is to maintain internal security as essential for investment capture. in fact, especially in the PSP, what we do is that the state will comply with what has become linked. The former Government, PSD and CDS, in addition to ending the troika, opened a competition for the admission of 800 new agents to the PSP. This contest was not only launched as the competitive procedures began, and even there was evidence of selection. What this Government has done, at the expense of the word, by a decision of the Ministry of Finance and by lack of political weight of the Ministry and the Minister of Internal Administration, is to say that it is no longer 800, but only 300, which is why we rest these 500. in the same way, and responsibly, we propose the opening of tenders, which were already planned or included in our electoral programme, in the other security forces and services, namely in the GNR, the SEF and the PJ. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u79	Also with regard to Article 8. Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this State budget enshrines national solidarity to deal with the losses of another tragedy that has been unleashed on Madeira this summer, the fires. Would we like the means to be more significant? Of course! But, above all, we would like there to be less damage, more prevention, more planning and planning, more responsibility for the regional authorities. The PSD/Madeira conceals its responsibility behind the demand for more and more money from the Republic and says that in this way it is defending the Madeirans. It defends, but only a few, those who have always enriched the shadow of the budget and regional debt. This financial aid, which enshrines solidarity, must be accompanied by supervisory mechanisms, so that it does not repeat what happened in 2010, in which the solidarity funds were diverted to useless works that benefited only a few. Solidarity and responsibility are needed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u81	Still with regard to Article 8. the, has the floor Mr. Secretary of State of the Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to answer one question mentioned by Mr Nuno Magalhães. Mr Nuno Magalhães, with regard to the entrances to the Public Security Police, it should not be forgotten that you will enter exactly the same number of agents who entered in two, three years of your government — the difference is only that. But in addition, we did not have a commitment to the number of entries; we had a scholarship of people enrolled in the Public Security Police which was around 1300 and were prepared to be able to join the Police School, and entered only 300. However, we must also not forget that they are released from administrative functions and from functions relating to other internal tasks for active life, for life outside the PSP teams, about 500 men. That is, we're going to have 800 more men on the street, in proximity, and there's never been a guarantee of 800 men's hiring. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u83	For a new intervention in respect of Article 8. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u84	Mr President, Secretary of State, the facts are facts. Mr. Secretary of State spoke of a scholarship. Now, you guys put 500 cops in your pocket who were already in competition. They literally put 500 members in the bag for security forces and services. Why, Mr. Secretary of State? For budgetary restrictions and because the finances have been cut. Now, the State is a good person and must fulfil the commitments. The competition was launched, it was open, there were competitive processes, I repeat, Mr. Secretary of State. Moreover, the statute that the former Government has negotiated with the PSP and that the Minister has made the commitment to comply provides for the retirement and pre-retirement of 800. That's why number 800 is not an arbitrary choice, it's a commitment to no fewer cops. They approve our proposal, ask the parliamentary majority — the PS, the BE and the PCP — to approve the CDS proposal and the State will become a good person and the safest country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u85	Mrs. Members, let us turn to a proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, an article 8. o -A — Compensation for the Lusa Agency. Mrs. Susana Lamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group recognizes the importance of the Lusa Agency, an essential strategic asset for our country. The Lusa contributes to the information of citizens and to the projection of national interests abroad, represents an important and quality public service and, to this end, it is essential that it obtain the necessary money. The Government has failed to budget for 2017 an amount lower than the 2016 Budget by calling into question the service provided by the Lusa Agency. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u87	We turn to Article 17. o — Policy for the prevention of domestic violence, protection and assistance of victims. Mrs. Angela Guerra, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this budget, the legislative provision on gender budgeting has been reformulated, choosing to make a direct amendment to the law of domestic violence. In 2016, already in Article 16. that of the State Budget Act was established the duty of each ministry to include in its budget money relating to this policy, informing them and their implementation, to the member of the Government responsible for the area of equality. As a specialist, we have heard Mr Deputy Minister say that EUR 17 million has been allocated for security forces training and other support, including shelters for victims of domestic violence. However, in addition to not having a translation in what was stipulated in the law of 2016, it is not in any way that defines a gender-sensitive budget, because, on the one hand, this type of actions does not constitute any novelty because they have been executed for years with money defined, identified and discriminated against and, on the other hand, this information does not allow to measure where and what the funds applied by each ministry and in which actions, in particular. We therefore believe that the implementation of this measure by virtue of Article 16. it constitutes only one more cartel operation. With regard to the new wording now given to Article 17. the, here we will be here to monitor its implementation within the scope of the powers conferred upon this House. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u89	We turn to Article 18. o — Extension of effects. Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group is hereby inscribed and I give the floor to her.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, today, in line with the State Budget for 2016, we discuss the replacement and enhancement of rights and incomes, the fight against precariousness, the defense of collective bargaining. Careers and wages are central and fair claims of employees of the Public Administration, which are due to be resolved by 2017. There are workers who have not progressed in careers since 2001. Careers and wages are an essential condition of valuing workers and of the quality of public services and require response. With the action of the CFP, it was possible to discuss and identify advance measures that are proposed today in this State budget: the start of the process of defreezing public administration careers ; the increase of food allowance in 11 € monthly during 2017 ; the replacement of collective bargaining in the business public sector, with its rights and remuneration; the fight against precariousness, with the opening of vacancies and the hiring of workers, valuing those who already perform functions; consideration of specific schemes of extraordinary hours. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, with the contribution of the CFP, it was possible to advance the fight against precariousness and the linkage of workers in the Public Administration, valuing the professional experience of workers who are performing functions. This is a measure of great significance for the lives of each worker and for the functioning of public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u92	We also put forward proposals to ensure the application of increased food allowance to all employees of the Public Administration, central, local and regional. We respond with a proposal to the need for workers to regulate inter-rail and inter-categories mobility situations, thus ensuring stability in their working situation, both in central and local administration. We put forward proposals to remove restrictions on the application of collective bargaining in the business sector of the State, ensuring the replacement of all rights enshrined, which will in any case be implemented in 2017. We also highlight another proposal that reduces workers' discounts to ADSE. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the struggle of workers, the decisive intervention of the CFP and the change in the coordination of forces in the Assembly of the Republic have allowed a path of impoverishment and backwardness. The discussion we make today proved and proved that it was worth and worth fighting, that there are no fatalisms and inevitability imposed and that no opportunity should be wasted to restore and conquer rights. It is in this fight and in the commitment to the workers and the people that the CFP is committed to. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u93	Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, this is an article rich in content and, in the path of the government's commitment, restores rights, increases income in a benefit— attention! (ii) equal treatment for 590 000 workers in the meal allowance opens up collective bargaining and, above all, opens up negotiating space in certain areas. It is therefore another proposal that makes the difference between the speech of the inevitable, of the fatality, that it justified or intended to justify the unjustifiable of the last Government, and the action of the current Government, which ensures stability and returns confidence to Portuguese and Portuguese, as rightly stressed yesterday by the President of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u95	Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u96	Mr. President, the Left Block monitors the need to unlock collective bargaining in the business sector of the State. Collective bargaining is a basic right of workers and public administration workers should not see this right being protected. It is essential that collective bargaining be unblocked so that public administration workers can negotiate their career progression, their wage increases; so that teachers can be linked and there are no teachers who stay 20 years on the same income scale; so that all public administration workers have 35 hours of work, regardless of their public administration bond; so that all public administration precariouss, all end-term contracts, all green receipts, can be integrated. All of this has to be opened in collective bargaining with public administration workers, who are the guarantor of the social functions of the State, the social rights of citizens and citizens. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u97	Still in relation to Article 18. Mr Heitor Sousa, of the Left Block, is registered. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Article 18. it is not only about unlocking the careers of public service workers, it is also about the existence of an exception clause for the status of public managers and for the remuneration status of public managers. from this point of view, there is an inconsistency that the Left Block seeks to eliminate in this Budget, ensuring that the salaries of public managers correspond to the same principle of transparency and equity that is claimed for workers in the other sectors of the State. On this issue, the PSD has made a lot of policy of disguise in recent times and we want to take this opportunity to say that our proposal not only ends with the exception status for public managers, but also goes against and suppresses the exception clause which in the case of the PSD and the CDS was enshrined in the Statute of the Public Manager and which allowed the existence of million wages for these managers. We demand and defend urgency and fairness in addressing this issue. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u99	Mrs Rubina Berardo asked for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the work. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u100	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau about the participation of the Autonomous Regions in the budgetary procedure. We have indicated that the Madeira Regional Assembly has not received any amendment proposals to draw up its opinion in accordance with the law. We therefore ask the Bureau to take the necessary steps to comply with the constitutionally valid law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u101	Madam Member, action will be taken immediately to that end. We are now examining the proposal for a Article 21. o -A — Amendment of Decree-Law No 71/2007 of 27 March 2007 submitted by the PSD. This proposal concerns the Statute of the Public Manager. Mr António Leitão Amaro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for almost a year, the country has been witnessing indignity, lack of common sense and total lack of ethics in the General Deposit Box. With this government, they first announced holes in the Box, which ultimately did not exist ; then it was an administration plunged by the ECB ( European Central Bank ) ; then administrators who were sent to school before they started their duties ; now it is the recapitalisation of the Box, face and opaque, which has been postponed and will take at least 15 months since they entered office.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u103	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u104	But to this worst management they still added — they were able and had the rise to add — the elimination of wage limits, triple the wages of the cash managers, and excluding them from the most basic and elementary obligations of transparency and declaration of income and heritage. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] And now we are also aware - and the country has noticed - the very grave conflict of interests with which the current President of the Caixa acted before he was in office, still amassing another position in another bank. It is time to put a final point in this indignity and lack of sense in the General Deposit Box! It's time to put an end to this! And the PSD proposals we are discussing here are an opportunity, imposing limits on the salaries of administrators and forcing them, as they have to be, to make their declarations of income and heritage. It is time to put an end to this indignity and indecent law as the government has done! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen on the left, the worst solution is to leave this as it is. We have tabled our proposals and I hope that all parliamentary groups, in particular the CFP and the Left Block, will not now be prevented and that this situation will be resolved. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u105	And the millionaire wages the PSD proposes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u106	On behalf of the Government, Mr Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho, also has the floor on this proposal for a new article.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, about two months ago, we had a discussion here with regard to the Statute of the Public Manager and, in the context of this discussion, I made very clear what was at stake. It was concerned to change the life of the Box, implement a recapitalisation plan of the Box under market conditions based on a business plan which could be approved by the European institutions as a market investment. The investment in market conditions implies this business plan and implies that the cash change of life, which is managed by a set of professionals in the banking sector of excellence, with a curriculum absolutely above any doubt, and that allows to separate the day-to-day management of the box from the indications and from that which is the interference of the government in the management of the box. It was this interference that for years, and for the last four years too, determined that the Box had very significant losses, losses that entail the recapitalisation that will now be done in the Box. This recapitalisation is important, this recapitalisation has to be done, but it will be done under agreed conditions, conditions that imply a scrupulously assessment of the inequalities, the registration in the accounts of 2016 and that later takes place, then, and the operation with the accounts clarified. What seems to me to be an unacceptable demagogy is to return to this idea that the previous law had limits. The previous law had no limits! The previous law allowed any banker in the City of London to hire for the price you wanted! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u108	Mr. Secretary of State, that's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u109	There were no limits! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The limits now existing are defined by a remuneration committee indicated by the Government, whose mandate is given by the Government and which is voted upon in this House. What I find unacceptable is the kind of demagogy that has been done in this House,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... that is to say that there is no transparency control when all banks in the economy and in Europe are subject to transparency control imposed by the European Central Bank,... [[CDS-PP laughter.]] ... controlled by the Banco de Portugal, which has always been much stricter, much tighter than any controls by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u110	Is this an attack on the Constitutional Court and you leave? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u111	This was very clear in the statements that came to light very recently and that account for the fact that several bankers and several Presidents of the Box did not deliver any statements, did not deliver strict statements. It was very clear for it to serve the delivery of declarations to the Constitutional Court. No problem will exist, the law will be fulfilled, as has always been fulfilled, and that will not happen again. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] What I am asking is that the House be consistent and that it realizes that, if it wants to have a Public Box, this Public Box must follow the principles of transparency and must be in competition with the other banks. It cannot be a Box to cause injury and to absorb funds from the public record at the expense of taxpayers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u112	Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS submits two proposals to the public manager and to transparency. As far as transparency is concerned, we consider, unlike the Secretary of State, that the Constitutional Court is a sovereign body and serves for something, for a lot, in particular to monitor whether statements are delivered. And it is not surprising that the PCP, PS and BE find it normal to support a member of the government who says that the Constitutional Court is useless! Don't stop being extraordinary! Don't stop being extraordinary what happened! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u114	Mr. Secretary of State said nothing about that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u115	I said, I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u116	Mr Secretary of State, if there are any doubts in the law, there is no — we are quickly making a change to the law and, in the matter of clarity, transparency and, I would say, public hygiene, we are forcing those who have to make statements to make their delivery and that this matter is being voted on today. Moreover, it is good that everyone today assumes their responsibilities in voting on this proposal, and it is good that the PCP, BE and PS do not continue to be complicit in a lack of total transparency and an illegal and immoral refusal to deliver these statements. [[PCP protests.]] Regarding the salaries of the public manager, the CDS presents a balanced and sensible proposal with two regimes: one, in the face of normal situations, and one, in the face of exceptional situations. This CDS proposal balances other proposals from the Left Block and PSD. And, speaking in Block de Left, it remains extraordinary that he proposed, at the budget office, what he voted against less than a month ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u117	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u118	Our proposal is as follows: in times of normality, by express and substantiated order of custody — the Ministry of Finance — the public manager's maturity may be fixed in this case of Box, provided that it does not exceed the average remuneration for the last three years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u119	It's a fallacy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u120	That's false, Mr. Nuno Magalhães!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u121	in the opposition, we propose what we did while we were in the government. We haven't changed our mind! And, yes, Mr Secretary of State, once again, you have failed the truth—it is the least I can say. There was a limit and there was no more because the government, supported by the PS, the Left Block and the PCP, made it stop having that limit. Take what they do! But in exceptional times, we believe that exceptional proposals must be put forward. And if we are faced with a situation of budgetary adjustment, of remuneration restraint in the Public Administration, of the need to take difficult measures to meet international commitments, as we have been and we are still, in that case, the public manager's maturity cannot exceed that of the Prime Minister. however, if we meet goals, and we believe in merit, in well-founded cases, after proving that it has quality—and do not say that that kind of maturity should be given to people of quality—, it may have a premium, but not more than half the average of the last three years. It is a balanced and sensible proposal. We will enable all proposals, but we believe that this allows us to treat normally in times of normality and to treat exceptionally in times of exceptionality. We therefore challenge all parliamentary groups once and for all today to adopt this proposal from the CDS, which makes a balance between the Block's proposals and those from the PSD. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u122	Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, once again, PSD and CDS confirm what they have been doing: they use the campaign against the General Deposit Box and the attachment of the public bank also as a political weapon, such is the consideration they have for the Box and its importance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u124	Exactly! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u125	On the subject of the public manager and the members of the Board of Directors of the Box, the position of the CFP has always been very clear and indeed translated into a political proposal in this House of the Republic. We have proposed that there should be no exemption arrangements for the members of the Board of Directors of the Box in respect of the statement of income, imposing limits on their salaries as public managers. But the PS and PSD voted against the PCP proposal aimed at creating this limit. The conclusion resulting from this debate and from the proposals presented by the PSD is, in fact, that the PSD maintains the perspective it had when it was in government. That is, the PSD and the CDS at the time approved the regime of the public manager which has a purely fictitious limit, because it does not correspond to any limit. It is true, yes, that the currently expected salaries are obscene, millionairely obscene, but it is no less true that the PSD defends exactly that there are incomes with the same nature, although they can be calculated with another formula. And that is evident in the proposed amendment. Mrs. Members, the PSD and the CDS have no interest — especially the PSD, because they voted against the PCP proposal aimed at limiting wages — to limit wages, but have every interest in using wages as a pretext to limit the capacity of the General Deposit Box. This is what you see in your posture, either by using the General Deposit Box as a political weapon, or in the obsession that they have to put down the public bank. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u126	Mr António Leitão Amaro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for the second time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u127	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, said the Secretary of State that with the previous law there were no limits. I must remind you that with the previous law the administration of Caixa earned a third of what the administration earns today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u128	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u129	With the previous law, the President of RTP, who before taking on this position had a historic salary of 18 000 € in the last three years, went to RTP to earn half. [[PS and BE protests.]] Do you know the difference, Secretary of State? It is that before there was a Minister of Finance who exercised his power and authority to impose decency and ethics in the management of public companies... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u130	... and now the Minister of Finance and, now, the Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance use the law, who knows the written commitments, to satisfy the will and interest of the State to the demands of some who go to the public bank to earn millionaire wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u131	And Sergio Monteiro? He received 30 000 € per month to sell the New Bank! Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u132	Furthermore, Mr Secretary of State: I would like to know why you did not come here to clarify whether, after all, the exclusion of the duty to deliver the statement of income and heritage was a lapse, as I said earlier, or whether it was a will. Was it lapsed or was it will? It is because your colleague said that the government believes that the statements should be delivered, but you said again that they should not be delivered. What are we staying on?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u133	You should be ashamed of your proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u134	If they are not understood by the Government, it is necessary for the legislator — the Assembly of the Republic — to put an order on this. There must be limits to cash salaries, and cash managers, like all public managers, must deliver income and heritage statements to the Constitutional Court, the Attorney General's Office of the Republic and the IGF ( General Inspection of Finance ). It is necessary to put an end to the indignity and lack of common sense that you brought to the General Deposit Box. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u135	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. PSD members had no problem when Sérgio Monteiro was earning €30 000 per month in Banco de Portugal to sell the New Bank, which you intervened. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] The gentlemen. Members had no problem approving a law that allows the average remuneration of the last three years to be paid. If a Minister decides to invite Cristiano Ronaldo or António Mexia to cash administrators, according to your law, they will have to pay the average remuneration for the last three years and these are, yes, millionaire wages. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] You have no problem with millionaire wages, you have a problem with the Public Fund. But this is another conversation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u137	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u138	Mrs. Members, the only way to protect and ensure decency in the salaries of the public sector is limited to the salary of the Prime Minister, who is the person with the highest executive power in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u140	This was the Bloc's proposal and this was the proposal that Mr. Members voted against. With regard to transparency, the law already requires that the declaration be handed over to the Constitutional Court. We will accept nothing less than transparency and more demand. This is the position of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u141	You have the floor again, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u142	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the speakers. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Members, I would like to say that I have the greatest respect for the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has played a very important role in the past four years, as you all know.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u143	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u144	With regard to the remuneration of the Box, the fact that they have always been defined not by the rule but by the exception shows the limits that existed. I could hire any London City manager and pay him a value equal to his previous salary if he wanted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u145	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u146	If this administration had earned the average of the last three years, it would together win more or less the same, but it would have people who would gain more than the President, which makes no sense in a banking company that is competing in a highly competitive sector. Finally, I have nothing to add to the discussions we have had here with regard to the other issues. I believe that the position of the Government is very clear and that it is very clear that the Box should be used as a bank that strengthens the Portuguese economy and not as an instrument of political battle and political jetting which only wants to deny the Box and contribute to its destruction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u147	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 22. o — Precautionary control strategy. Mrs Inês Lamego, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u148	Mr President, allow me, in your own person, to welcome all those present. The right to employment is for this Government and for the PS Parliamentary Group absolutely fundamental, not only for the country's economic dynamics, but also for the pursuit of healthy public finances and for the support of the social security system. But the economy and finance exist for people and it is for them that we fight, not only for the right to employment, but also for decent and stable employment, a stability that sustains the idealization and realization of a life project. And this is a path that is not made without serious promotion of the fight against precariousness. This budget takes precisely the fight against segmentation and precariousness as an anchor element of its strategy, a strategy that goes through the limitation of term contracts, the promotion of more stable public relations for young people seeking the first and long-term unemployed and the identification of false services and false stages. in this sense, the strategy to combat precariousness, enshrined in Article 22. the proposed law which aims to approve the State Budget for 2017, provides for the strengthening of control and monitoring mechanisms with a view to identifying situations considered precarious and its progressive elimination. It therefore proposes that the PS Parliamentary Group present to the Assembly of the Republic by the end of the first quarter of 2017 a programme for the extraordinary regularization of precarious links in the Public Administration, which regulates the conditions for the formal recognition of the permanent needs of the services and which concentrates on the creation of places on the staff maps of their services, which enhances professional experience in the performance of the functions of the place to be fulfilled, giving particular priority to the experience of those who previously occupied certain jobs and that these regulations take place until the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2017. This budget was drawn up with the valuable contributions of the Green Party of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, but this is a PS Budget and therefore reflects and materializes the genuine will to combat precariousness in speed and dose that enables us to ensure the sustainability of spending with the services of the Public Administration and at the same time restores working dignity, because we promise and comply. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u149	On this same article, Mr Álvaro Batista, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there were many workers with six or more years of precariousness, it would be good for the PS to assume its responsibilities. PSD has always been against precarious work... [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] ... and only didn't solve the issue by the inheritance of the PS, troika and rescue. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u151	This government promised people...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u152	I'm asking the ladies. Members to let the speaker intervene. I would like to continue, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u153	This government has promised people a study on precariousness and has not done so. It is concealment or incompetence! This government has promised people to end the precarious situation, but the media says that precariousness in the state has increased by 10 % in the last year, i.e. more than 6300 people. [[PS protests.]] The government here has no credibility! It only promises to start solving the problem as of October 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u154	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u155	It is incompetence or electoralism because of the autarchies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is it for tomorrow? Well, it could be today. The precariousness of the State exempts electoralisms and what they want is what the process will be like. The taxpayers want to know how much it will cost them and whether the 6300 new precariouss of this government are also to enter. People deserve transparency and respect and there is no such promise. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u156	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u157	Mr. President, after this hilarious moment and demagogy of the PSD,... [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u158	... we come back to the article on the strategy to combat precariousness in the state, a very important article which results from a commitment that has already generated a huge expectation in about 100 000 precariouss of the state that want its regularized situation. This expectation is not exaggerated, it has the dimension of abuse that has been extended for decades. That is why the adoption of this article has placed a great deal of responsibility on the part of the Government to respond positively and this expectation which has been generated. for our part, we will fight for nobody to stay out of this process, disagreeing with the use of the criterion of full time as a filter, because full time is not a criterion of labor. to the government we say that we will be committed, vigilant and cooperative with this process; to the precariousness of the state — nurses, teachers, trainers, people with employment-inclusion contracts — we say that it is time to take the floor, that it is time to be heard and to demand what is of the most elementary justice: that no one stay out of this process of regularization. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u159	Mrs. Members, let us examine the proposal of Article 22. o -A — Replacement of subcontracting of companies by hiring health professionals presented by the PCP. Mr Luís Vales of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are very pleased to note that the CFP, like the PSD, also condemns the spending policy and encouraging the work precariousness that this government has done to cover the permanent needs of the SNS ( National Health Service ). Finally, the ladies and gentlemen. PCP members recognize the merit of the work of the previous government, which significantly reduced costs with temporary employment in the national health system.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u161	If the discharge paid tax!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u162	In 2015, Mr, savings were made in the order of EUR 50 million. We spent EUR 130 million in 2010 for a expenditure of around EUR 80 million in 2015 equivalent to a cost reduction of more than 38 %. It turns out that in the first half of 2016 the SNS spent more than 47 million euros on the provision of medical services through companies, and services amounting to 1, 7 million euros were provided. This is why it is expected that these costs with corporate contracts will increase to 2010 levels, with this socialist management. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this addendum, we note that the CFP is finally beginning to repeal measures from the Government that it supports. May it be the first of many, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u163	Mrs. Members, on the proposal for a Article 25. the -A— Multi-annual strategy for requalification and modernization of the prison system, presented by the Block of the Left, is inscribed Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Parliamentary Group of the Block of the Left, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, being arrested is a deprivation of liberty, but it cannot be a deprivation of citizenship and dignity. Now, because of its physical degradation and the insufficiency of its human resources, the current Portuguese prison system offends basic demands of a rule of law and agglomerates people, predominantly young people, in unconditional spaces and in everyday situations with resocialization horizons always short of the essential. The Left Block proposes the addition of Article 25. o -A, consecrating a multi-year intervention programme in prisons, which starts, in 2017, with the publication of an official report, identifying needs, priorities for action and phased timing of intervention, which makes Portuguese prisons physically worthy and with means of being truly places of education for an open and motivating future. We therefore propose that a firm commitment to the qualification of prisons be a mark of this budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u165	We looked at the proposal for a Article 27. o -A — Review of the criteria determining the number of operational assistants in ungrouped schools and schools groups presented by the CFP. Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP advocates, with this proposal, the revision of the criteria determining the number of operational assistants in school groupings and non-grouped schools until the beginning of the 2017 / 2018 school year. The situation of schools is known to be very difficult with regard to the lack of non-teaching staff, which is not today and which has been aggravated with the policy of attack on public school practised by the PSD and the CDS. We recognize the Government's effort to try to hire some operational assistants for a short time; however, we find that it is not enough and that any ratio made by the rule and framework, without weighing the concrete reality of each school, does not meet the actual needs. There are many cases where, even with the fulfilment of the established ratio, the needs are clearly not sufficiently answered. We therefore propose that the Government consider aspects such as the specific needs of students with special educational needs, the safety conditions and the normal functioning of school facilities and support services, among others. The CFP considers this to be a measure of public school appreciation for which we defend an investment and dignity policy that reverses the disaster path that, in particular, PSD and CDS have drawn in terms of education. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u167	Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the proposal of the CFP to revise the criteria determining the number of employees in schools is basically a confession: that their so-called patriotic and left-wing government has left the schools without employees needed to function properly.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u169	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u170	A forced confession in front of the daily reality of schools with libraries and closed gymnasiums, with units of autism and multideficiency closed, with closed schools. The government deceives with false ads,... [[PCP protests.]] ... with reinforcements that do not exist, with funds that do not reach schools and the PCP pretends to believe, but is also responsible for this backwardness. this year, we are much worse than in 2015, but now the PCP no longer demands; it proposes that it be evaluated! Now, the PCP is no longer urgent; it proposes that it be resolved there for September!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u171	Read it before you speak. Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u172	The PCP, Mr. João Oliveira, now no longer heads demonstrations; he is accused at the school door! Taking the decision of the shift from 40 to 35 hours of work, the PSD, of course, warned that it was necessary to adapt the number of employees to this new situation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u173	He warned that it was necessary to keep 40 hours!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u174	... placing at least the same number of operational assistants capable of ensuring the degree of response that existed in 2015, the year in which the PSD/CDS government improved the ratios and hired more than 2800 employees and now linked to the frameworks of the Ministry of Education more than 4000 teachers, i.e. an average of 1000 teachers per year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u175	He's fired 27,000!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u176	This year, Mr. José Soeiro, your government has bound how many? 100 teachers! 100 teachers!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u177	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u178	The PSD believes that the situation needs to be resolved quickly, something that, in fact, does not do so. But because, above all, are the interests and needs of the students, that VV. They do not seem to know, we will not vote against the proposal. Absolve who can! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u179	The next article is 29. o — Application of special occupational health schemes. Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group is inscribed with whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the subcontracting of professionals by temporary workers in the National Health Service is a destabilizing element in the organization of services, hampers teamwork, does not guarantee the rights of these workers and has increased costs for the public record. The CFP proposes the gradual replacement of contracts with temporary work enterprises by direct hiring of health professionals, integrating them into careers and linking them to public service. Given that in some situations it will be difficult to make these contracts immediately, we propose the use of the internal capacity of the SNS, reducing the use of precarious work and subcontracting of professionals. Users continue to have difficulties in accessing medicines for economic reasons, and the CFP therefore proposes strengthening the use of generic medicines in order to reach the quota of 40 % in value. With this measure, user access to medicines is improved and the use of public resources is optimized.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u182	These CFP proposals contribute to improving the provision of health care, reducing barriers to access and strengthening the rights of workers and SNS users. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u183	We are now examining the proposal for a Article 29. o -A — Exceptional recruitment of nurses, presented by the Left Block. Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block or a National Health Service that is more capable and efficient and therefore we have to ensure, as early as 2017, that it is equipped with the means it needs most, starting with the professionals. Only with professionals, only with more professionals can we guarantee better access to health care, better home care, better primary care, emergency services without waiting hours and admissions with better conditions. To meet the needs of the National Health Service, the Left Block proposes that the State Budget for 2017 include the following measures: first, the exceptional recruitment of nurses, increasing the number of these professionals in the National Health Service and improving the National Health Service itself ; second, greater autonomy and speed in hiring professionals in case of temporary absence of work. With these measures, we are sure that the SNS will have better response and users will have better access to health. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u185	We turn to Article 32. o — Recruitment of workers by legal persons of public law and undertakings of the public business sector. To speak on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Joaquim Raposo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u186	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this proposal which we have tabled in relation to Article 32. the and also Articles 33. o, 34. o is 35. the proposal for the State Budget Act aims, in some way, to solve a set of situations that have been dragged in these bodies for several years. As we know, some thousands of workers have a situation in relation to these bodies far beyond public procurement, which is being dragged, which creates injustice, instability and insecurity. For this reason, our proposal allows the recruitment of workers for the establishment of fixed-term or duly substantiated employment bonds, thus ending with one of the major gaps, one of the major serious situations in the state business sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u187	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the hiring of workers, especially in enterprises in the state business sector, the constraints that are presented in the State budget are many and the needs are enormous, especially in the transport sector. Strangely, the extreme left and the radical left, which support this government, applaud happily and the country impoverishes sadly. As regards funding limits and indebtedness, the limitations continue. The speech is not true with reality, but also in this area the discourse is not true with the State Budget. We have already realized that the allocation of expenditure and investment maintain the same logic as the 2016 State Budget, that is, permanent capitulations that, in practice, are cut. Little boy, ladies. Members of the government! Little doll! Of course the services of state companies will continue to deteriorate as in 2016. It harms citizens, harms workers, increases the risk of insecurity, but if something goes wrong, as the Minister of the Environment said, they do not come to say that there was randomness. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u189	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the proposal of Article 37. -A— Recruitment of professional firefighters in local authorities with budget allocation, presented by the Left Block. On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, civil protection and firefighters have been systematically forgotten year after year, Budget after Budget. One cannot continue to ignore who, risking his own life so often, does everything to save the life and the goods of others, of all of us. We have bodies of firefighters flying and municipal working only with base firefighters — fireman squatter, fireman of 3. the class, fireman of 2. the class — and that perform leadership functions at once; we have bodies of firefighters aged; we lack firefighters in almost all classes. Uninvestment in civil protection and working conditions of professional firefighters was one of the trademarks of the right-wing government. Of course, it is not worth crying over poured milk. For this reason, the Left Block considers that it is all fair and urgent to ensure, already in this 2017 budget — and therefore this proposal — that local budgetary authorities can recruit professional firefighters that they need for their staff. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u191	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the proposal for a Rule 45. o -A — Madeira Central Hospital, presented by the PCP. Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, 80% was the pumping percentage announced by the PS leader / Madeira for the construction of the new hospital. Having reached this budget, not 80 %, not 70 % or 60 %, we are even 50 %, half. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the hospital is not yet in balance. Better by saying, we are not half left, because, in fact, this is not budgeted but only intended. Thus, only there for Christmas 2018 is that Madeirans and port-sentenses can aspire to half the money. Mr. Carlos Pereira will say that it is the fault of the others. It's always like this! Having come to this point, Mrs Mariana Mortágua and Mr Carlos Pereira, the question is not to know how the PSD Members or our sole intentions will vote, but, rather, how will the left vote Parliamentary our proposal, that does, in fact, give an effective sum of EUR 8.8 million for the start-up, already in 2017, of the new hospital for Madeira. That is the question. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u193	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the proposal for a Rule 47. o -A— Projects of common interest ( Madeira Hospital ), submitted by PS. Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today is indeed an important day for the Autonomous Region of Madeira and I am very proud to say that the Socialist Party's proposal to guarantee the payment and co-financing of 50% of the construction of the new hospital in Madeira is the maximum expression of the solidarity of the PS Government towards Madeira and Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to say that this proposal of the Socialist Party means that for the first time it will be materialized, within the framework of the relationship between the State and the Autonomous Region of Madeira, a project of common interest provided for in the law of regional finances and never realized in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But this expression of solidarity which I have referred to contrasts, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with a tremendous expression of political cynicism of the PSD and the CDS that, for more than four and a half years, have been government in the Republic and have done nothing about it...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u195	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u196	... and very little did the Madeira Regional Government with the Rabbit Pass Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They did nothing at that time and assumed that nothing would be achieved in this budget year. We have also seen this throughout the discussion of this Budget in the various committees. Fortunately, for the Madeirans, they were deceived. It is true that there have been contracts, there have been difficulties,... [[PSD protests.]] ... but the biggest difficulties even came from the Regional Government and the PSD / Madeira. These were the greatest difficulties, because the Regional Government of Madeira was unable to instruct a candidate who had all the elements and the arguments necessary to be approved at the national level. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The lead of this candidacy, for misinstruction, for lack of elements on the part of the Financial Policy Monitoring Council, has severely limited the margin of manoeuvre of the Socialist Party. But still we have reached a political agreement that ensures and accompanies the will of the people of Madeira. From today on, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lack of compliance by the Regional Government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u197	For now, Mrs Sara Madruga, the available data are not encouraging. In 2016, the Regional Government did not place a single euro in the regional budget and, in 2017, placed EUR 8, 8 million, which, look at Mr President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not even half the expropriations that have to be made to build the new hospital. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u198	Sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u199	I conclude by saying that the responsibility for the construction, and its speed, of the new hospital is on the side of the regional government. I sincerely hope that, after this great victory for Madeira, of the co-financing of the infrastructure by 50 %, the Regional Government will not lose everything and actually do its part. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u200	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Chapter V — Local finances. For Article 48. o — Amounts of the participation of local authorities in state taxes, Mr João Paulo Oliveira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is proud to have increased by 2 % the overall value of transfers to local authorities, sufficient reason for, in its usual fanfarronice, saying that this is a very generous State budget for municipalities and for the Freguess. But what the government does not say, nor does it like you to know, is that, for the second consecutive year, it does not comply with the Local Finance Act. [[PCP protests.]] What the government does not say, nor does it like to know, is that because of this double failure, it has deducted EUR 572 million from the municipalities and EUR 49 million from the parish. The popular phrase 'with the truth you deceive me' seems definitely to inspire, increasingly, the government of the union of the left. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u202	We turn to Article 55. o — Legislative authorization under the social tariff for the provision of water services. Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, one of the most emblematic measures of the Government Programme, coming from the agreement signed by the Socialist Party and the Left Block, was the extension of the automatic allocation of the social energy tariff. What was corporate communication and marketing became a real measure and concrete support received by people. The Left Block has now raised the question of the social water tariff which is also a measure of social support and which, like the previous one, has been very poorly applied within its scope, the scope of the council, through the municipalities. Today, the social tariff reaches around 10 % or less of the world of potential beneficiaries in the matter of water service, so this picture needs to be changed. We have the important experience of the social energy tariff that has made 700 000 people support that was not more than 100 000 and this device is at our disposal in order to be able to be applied by the authorities and thus give the support that is so necessary to those who need it and it is entitled to it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u204	We turn to Article 59. o — Decentralisation of competences for municipalities and intermunicipal entities within the framework of social action. Mrs Berta Cabral of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the decentralization of competences is one of the reforms considered to be structural for the full and cohesive development of our country. And, in this respect, we must admit that Portugal has been moving backwards this past year. The government did nothing throughout 2016, in addition to mere intentions and inconsequential announcements and in the bill that we are discussing today only dedicate two simple paragraphs to Article 59. the, to this very important matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u206	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u207	A matter, it is recalled, by the Government as a great national design, the cornerstone of the reform of the State. And in that respect we follow. What we don't follow is inaction. Indeed, the government rhetoric has no adherence to government action. Between the word and the action goes a great distance. Today, we are further than we were at the end of 2015 to have a state closer to citizens, more efficient and more effective. The country was implementing a process of decentralization that was interrupted. In our view, it is important to resume this journey, deepening it and extending it to other areas and to all the municipalities of the territory of the continent. in this sense, the PSD, respecting the autonomy of local power and fulfilling the principle of subsidiarity, presents a set of proposals for amendment and addition to Article 59. the, which aim to promote an effective decentralization of competences for municipalities and intermunicipal entities. This set of proposals aims, inter alia, to deepen and extend decentralisation in education, particularly at the level of basic and secondary education; in health care, for example in primary care, household or transport of patients; in culture, through the management of cultural equipment — museums, libraries, show houses, among others. The proposals also aim to carry out the legal transfer, universally, of the management of education and health infrastructures, of equipment management and of the management of non-teaching staff. The proposals also aim to move forward to new areas, through the legal transfer of competences in the care and follow-up of support for social and performance action; management and provision of veterinary medicine services; management of coastal edge; management of marines and recreational ports; licensing of recreation nautical; use of areas under jurisdiction of ports provided that they are not used; forest planning with respect to the National Forest Strategy and regional forest development plans; intervention in the prevention of fires and forest cleaning. These are areas — and I mention the type of example — where the action of municipalities can and should be empowered and exercised with advantage for citizens, both citizens as users and citizens as contributors, and also, of course, for the Administration itself. This set of proposals also aims to ensure that this process of decentralization is accompanied by the transfer of the necessary financial, human and heritage resources currently associated with these services is another of the essential requirements for its implementation and whose proposals will be presented and discussed later and in due course. We want, with the presentation of our proposals, an administration with faces, an administration close to the people, an administration that, knowing the difficulties of the people, best responds to their needs, doing more and better with the same resources. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u208	Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State Budget for 2017 is a good budget for local power, it is a good budget for the authorities, then it is a good budget for the populations and for all Portuguese and Portuguese. This State Budget for 2017 is fortunately strengthening a path towards consolidating the autonomy of local power and has already adopted, to this end, a set of timely but highly impacted changes in the area of local administration. Similarly, with this government and successive budgets, the action framework of the municipalities has already been extended in the context of access to European funds, which the previous government had practically blocked, which will continue to be a high priority. in this State budget, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is a strengthening of transfers to local power, in order to comply, yes, with the Local Finance Act, with an increase of 2, 9 %, over EUR 74 million. We return to the 2011 transfer level, which is obviously a factor that deserves our greeting and applause. at the same time, it is a budget of rigor, responsibility and that presents the lowest deficit of Portuguese democracy. The proposed amendments submitted by the PSD to Article 59. the, on decentralization, is part of another general framework than that of this State budget, but a process of decentralization. They deserve our rejection, because they end up with a triple deficit, from the very end of universality. PSD continues to insist, badly, on the path of contractualization and opacity. For PS, this process must be integrated under a competent legal framework with a universal character such as the one in progress and which will be completed in the first quarter of 2017. We will strengthen the competences of the local authorities, but will allow transfers of competences from the central administration to the local authorities, to the coordination and regional development committees, to the metropolitan areas, which will gain greater legitimacy. For municipalities, yes, we want to strengthen the competences of municipalities in the social, educational, health, cultural and other areas, and also those of the parish, which will benefit from competences adapted to their local reality, depending on their nature, and own powers in domains today attributed by mere municipal delegation. But the PSD proposals have a second deficit: the hearing and participation deficit. For PS, there has been an imperative since the first hour: to listen and share, creating interministerial working groups, and also to hear the ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ) and the ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias ). This process of sharing and participation is not compatible with accommodating proposals for decentralisation. The PSD proposals do not have the broad, systemic and integrated scope that, for example, has our National Programme for Territorial Cohesion or the forest program. Finally, the PSD proposals still have another deficit: the memory deficit. There is a lack of memory in this PSD, which in the government has done one thing and now, in opposition, tries to do another. They made an unprecedented attack on local power and the authorities, violated the principle of local autonomy, emptied financial, heritage and management autonomy, finally, all the changes competed for one single objective: managing the municipalities directly through the Ministry of Finance, and evading them from competences. This sudden concern of the PSD, in opposition mode, with the Constitution and decentralization reveals a huge defacetism, lack of smell and, above all, lack of memory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I would like to say to you that Prime Minister Antonio Costa has clearly told us in our parliamentary days that the next term must be a mandate of more powerful authorities with more means to respond to the population. The truth is, the PSD deficit has always been to be unable to hear or share. Our path is another, it is of rigour, responsibility and social justice in local power. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u210	For an intervention, even with regard to Article 59. the, has the floor Mr. Secretary of State of the Local Authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I welcome and congratulate all. The Government welcomes the arrival of the PSD to discuss the decentralization of central government competences for local and regional administration. [[PSD protests.]] Similarly, the Government welcomes the arrival of the PSD to its proposals, which were adopted in the Council of Ministers by the Government on 21 July of the current year. [[PSD protests.]] It is true that the government is committed to real decentralization, we do not want a delegation of powers. The PSD proposal closes a set of proposals for delegation of competence. We are committed to decentralization, we do not want to make the authorities « tasks », we take the authorities as partners of the Public Administration. The PSD proposals include delegations of powers only to municipalities, and I quote, with « scale and training », do not speak in delegations of universal competences. The government wants to decentralise all municipalities and not just delegate to so many authorities. We are open to discussion in this or other context, as the importance of this cause is a national importance. But, Mrs Berta Cabral, the government wants to decentralise. Decentralize, yes, delegate, no! Negotiating with a dozen or a dozen and a half municipalities is easy, but it is not the form or the medium. The municipalities are all the same and it is with everyone that we want to dialogue and get to decentralization, and not just with a few more or less friends. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u212	You have the floor for a second speech, Mrs Berta Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am led to conclude that Mr. Secretary of State has not read the PSD proposals. They all have to do with universal transfer to all municipalities. in this sense, I advise you to see it better.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u214	And it's a mandatory transfer! That's autonomy! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u215	In addition, Mr. Secretary of State knows very well that the previous government has done a pilot experience that has worked well and is based on this pilot experience, and although it has been lost all year of 2016, we now propose that it move forward to proposals of a definitive and universal nature. Look carefully at our proposals, Mr Secretary of State, and you will see that we are right. The PSD has long been a decentralization party, a government party and a regional party. [[PS protests.]] You have that credit, you have that credit! And in that sense, we receive no lessons from anyone. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u216	Also for a second intervention, Mr President-in-Office of the State of Local Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, Mrs Berta Cabral, I have read your proposals and allow me to reread them, because there is a common point in all, in which everyone says the same thing: « The decentralization of the competences of the State should be carried out for municipalities or inter-municipal entities, depending on their scale and training for the adoption of new competences, ensuring efficiency and effectiveness(...) ». That is, it is not for everyone, it will be for some, it will be for those we / you choose, as they have always done in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They always did, in the past! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u218	Read, read, but you can't interpret!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u219	We will not enter an endless dialogue, but I will once again give the floor to Mrs Berta Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This is an essential issue and must be clarified. The transfer is universal, for everyone. Depending on the scale, it may be for intermunicipal(CIM) and metropolitan areas. That is how it should be interpreted. So, can't you interpret, Mr. Secretary of State? Oh, my God! It is very important that this be clarified. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u221	We're moving forward, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the proposal for a new Article 59. o-D — Legal transfer of competences in forest management presented by the PSD. Mr Mauricio Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: First of all, I would like to inform the Secretary of State of Local Authorities that the PSD has been the largest party of local power in Portugal since 1976. So we don't accept anyone's lessons. I would also like to take in his words, in the sense that municipalities should be treated equally, to demand equal treatment for all municipalities to the one recently granted to the municipality of Lisbon by assuming their financial responsibility in Carris. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Local authorities are the ones who best know our forest. They are the ones who make the most and best prevention, through all their equipment, they are the ones who better fight forest fires, through the support they provide to fire corporations. We therefore propose here that this competence be valued and that this government treats all municipalities equally, including those with low density. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u223	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 66. o — Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests, IP. Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this point, I would like to express our great concern at the fact that we are able to see something clarified, taking advantage of the presence of Mr José Mendes, Under-Secretary of State and Environment, on an extremely important subject for us, which is that of the body of nature's vigilantes. Mr. Secretary of State, we have greatly appreciated the hiring decision of more than 50 nature watchers. But nature does not only work from 9 a.m. to 17 p.m. nor does it strike at the end of the week, so we want to bring to the debate the urgent strengthening, in the short and medium term, of watchers of the nature that the country has to continue to do. in the country there are only 115 vigilantes, when the needs say that we should have an effective of 525 professionals. Spain has a body of 7000 effective and only in Andalusia, a territory with a similar area to Portugal, there are 900 of these professionals. The NAP proposes to reach a body of 525 nature watchers by 2019, with annual integration goals of at least 75 professionals. This is the only way to ensure, in their respective areas of activity, the monitoring, monitoring and monitoring functions relating to the environment and natural resources. We would like to see it clarified, Mr Secretary of State, if the Government intends to study this issue with a greater reinforcement of long-term nature watchers, or if, on the contrary, this reinforcement of 50 effectiveness is considered sufficient for you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u225	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Rule 71. o — Recruitment by local authorities of expenditure relating to the national counterpart of projects co-financed by European funds. Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : With this budget, the return to public school investment continues and expands. It is the bet on promoting school success and strengthening learning, based on more confidence in schools and teachers. But this Budget also includes a return to investment in schools, as physical structures with people inside. This is what shows the program of requalification and modernization of schools of the 2. o is 3. the basic and secondary education cycles: mobilising national resources and structural funds, integrates agreements between the government and dozens of municipalities, governed by autarchs of all political quadrants, and responds to needs prioritized by the authorities themselves. We are together taking these priorities out of the role for the works to be done effectively. The amendment proposed by the PS Parliamentary Group to Article 71. the improvement of the proposed budget law, by facilitating this effort, determining that certain obligations provided for in Law No. 43 / 2012, which creates the Local Economy Support Program, do not prejudice, before extending, the participation of municipalities in school modernization agreements. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u227	Mrs. Members, let us now turn to the proposal for a new Article 74. o -A — Participation of municipalities in the revenue of VAT, presented by the PSD. For an intervention, Mrs Emília Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today it is very clear to everyone, especially to the PSD, that an intelligent State is the one who seeks to extend the powers of the local authority, knowing how to decentralise, Mr. Secretary of State. Even because it is proved to the exhaustion that the autarchs provide better service to the population at lower costs for the public record. But it is also clear that there will never be real decentralization without the corresponding financial reinforcement. It's just that the autarchs can do more with less, but they can't do much with anything. And it is in this assumption that the PSD proposes a set of decentralization measures accompanied by another set of proposals that materialise the necessary transfer of resources and corresponding financial envelope to the authorities, which is an example of the proposed addition to this Article 74. o. We propose, for example, the participation of municipalities in VAT revenue to finance the strengthening of competences, which seems to us a fair complement to municipal money, but we also propose, because it is necessary, a change in the general regime of local authorities' fees, to make it more efficient for local and clearer for citizens, and also the gradual extension to the entire national territory of the approach programme, poured into the proximity services provided, for example, by the Citizens' Shops and the Citizens' Spaces. Finally, and also exemplifying some of the measures that the PSD wants to see envisaged in this 2017 Budget, we advocate the possibility of creating shared service centres and added value, which help municipalities to save on their expenses. Finally, Mr President, with a warning to the left seats: decentralising to local power is a sign of intelligence, decentralizing without financing is political fraud. We therefore hope that these PSD proposals will be taken into account and not in the plan of intentions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u229	Even in the context of the discussion of Article 74. Mr Hortense Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In principles such as transparency and general tax-defining principles we will all agree and the PSD presents two proposals in this area. But on issues of great relevance, as we have discussed here, which concern genuine decentralization and which take account of decentralization for greater efficiency and enforcement and transfer of resources to the authorities, there the PSD does not do well, is wrong in the way it intends to implement these points. Of course, this transfer of powers, associated with the transfer of means we have in our Government Programme, is something that is included in the first point and with which we agree. But then, when they intend to do so, they intend to do so at the expense of territorial cohesion, at the expense of the municipalities of the interior, without looking at our territory, without looking at such low-density territories that some Mrs so much talk about. Ladies and gentlemen. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not agree, because this framework needs to be looked at in the context of the decentralization that the government is doing and with an evaluation of the funding for local authorities. And also the proposals for shared costs we refer to as unnecessary, even because Article 102. the proposed law already provides for the possibility of financing specific programmes of intermunicipal entities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, regarding the proposal on the shops of the citizen and the spaces of the citizen, it is amazing that they present this proposal when, in four years, they have only managed to open five new shops of the citizen,... [[PSD protests.]] ... they only signed protocols without any associated funding. The current government, on the contrary, in just one year, opened eight new shops of the citizen, opened 104 spaces of the citizen... [[PSD protests.]] ... and has already guaranteed funding to open 400 spaces that have remained to be opened with the PSD Government / CDS-PP. There's a clear difference between making and talking. This government is making and therefore this proposal is unnecessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u231	We enter Chapter VI — Social security for which we have an entry for Article 78. o — Transfers to capitalisation. Mr Manuel Rodrigues of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund represents a safeguard for all pensioners and an essential financial reserve, which has more than EUR 14 billion. Now, the Social Democratic Party is very concerned that this State Budget for 2017 opens a precedent by giving specific guidelines to the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund to invest in a particular point, in this case in urban rehabilitation. in the perspective of the Social Democratic Party, the Stabilisation Fund, which is the largest public capitalisation fund and represents a safeguard for all pensioners, must be invested with total autonomy and independence, with a view to a very prudent investment strategy, in fact, as its history has been, and within a very conservative risk policy, based essentially on diversification of investments. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u233	And public debt isn't concern?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u234	... This concern is as much as we know, the Fund should, according to its regulation, bet on net assets, especially since it does not have a two-year coverage of paid pensions, yet, and urban rehabilitation is an asset with liquid characteristics...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u235	They're units of participation...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u236	... that may ultimately compromise what is the principle of the Fund. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u237	Therefore, in this sense, we believe that everything that is the most risky and less prudent policies, which do not maximize the relationship between return and risk, is totally unacceptable, given the fact that this is the biggest reserve of Portuguese pensioners. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u238	We moved on to the discussion of Article 80. o — Transfers to active employment and vocational training policies. Mr Carla Barros, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the discussion of Article 80. it is a good time for the government to be able to talk about investment in active employment and vocational training measures. It is a good time for the government to be able to explain to the entrepreneurs and the unemployed their de-investment, their cut of EUR 158, EUR 1 million in vocational training actions. But this is also the time, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, to be able to explain to the country the latest data from the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training on the brutal fall in job offers and placements for the same month, October 2015. You have to explain to the country how they justify us going back 32 years, we have to go back to 1984 — the time when the IMF was in the country — so that we can explain this brutal fall in job creation. You have to explain to the country how job offers have fallen 42 % and placements have fallen 44 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u240	They just fell off some desk!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u241	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how can we walk with a precarious budget if we are not focused on job creation? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u242	Mrs. Members, let us discuss the proposal for an addendum to Article 80. o -A — Strengthening the means of the Working Conditions Authority, presented by the CFP. Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP presented a set of issues relating to the fight against precariousness and in particular on the strengthening of means of higher inspectors and technicians for the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ). The former PSD/CDS-PP Government had the merit of placing ACT at a deliberate inertia point. The previous government — and strange is that the former Minister Mota Soares is not here — repeatedly confronted with this proposal from the CFP, always said that there was no availability, having reached the point of, in 2014, there were only 308 inspectors in the Act. I mean, ladies. Members, there was not even one inspector for each municipality in the country. And this, clearly, the employer thanked the PSD and the CDS-PP and guaranteed, in the workplaces of every day, the non-compliance with the law and the disrespect for workers' rights. By reverse this path and ensuring the effectiveness of the act's sanctioning and monitoring intervention, we propose the strengthening of its means, the opening of tenders for the hiring of inspectors and senior technicians, effectively ensuring the monitoring and enforcement of the law. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I would also like to point out that we will continue to insist on these matters: there is a need to distinguish between false green receipts of self-employed workers and also in this regard the ACT will have a fundamental role to play. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u244	in the framework of the addition of Article 80. o -A — Transparency, presented by the PSD, has the floor Mr José Silvano.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are putting forward these proposals to think about the future of social security. The sustainability of social security is a central concern in our social status model and the PSD, as a reformer party that has always been, presents these proposals in a way that counters the opacity of transparency and rigour to waste. Therefore, the information to be provided by the Government must be objective, reliable, regular and unionised and the governance model should have the participation of local partners and civil society. These are principles that are normal for all, should be a rule of good governance accepted by all and therefore we expect a consensus determination in the adoption of this standard. Unanimity is required in the adoption of these precepts, because the Portuguese demand it and the future of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u246	You have the floor for an intervention by Ms. Secretary of State for Social Security, Cláudia Joaquim.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot fail to mention that when I saw the heading of this proposal, I was very curious to read it. In fact, I now see that the reason for this proposal was transparency, in order to avoid opacity... It is curious that we do not find ourselves in the programme of your Government — which is no longer so, but in which you would be — no proposals in this respect. Not one! In fact, in the area of social security, transparency is a word that is missing and that you did not know during the four years in which you were in government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we are going to put ourselves in the proposed amendment to the Budget Framework Act. You made an amendment to the Budget Framework Act in September 2015 shortly before the elections. That is, they made an amendment to the Budget Framework Act which would enter into force three years later, in 2018, and now come to make a proposal for the amendment of the Budget Framework Act to enter into force immediately. It's very curious! They did not want to leave the government without making this amendment, even by making a three-year law, and now they have come to propose the introduction of maps that are not those that have introduced a little more than one year ago. Question: Why? There was no intention in September 2015 to obtain this information and to include it on the maps as maps of the Budget Framework Act? [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u248	I'm feeling some shame there! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u249	But we can continue to talk about the concrete proposal, where detailed maps are included. Only those who don't know how to manage the social security budget are making this proposal... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This proposal implies that any measure taken within the scope of the competences of a Minister for Social Security involves an amendment to the Budget Framework Act. Is that what you guys wanted or was it lapsed? Oh, my God! Secondly, let's talk about transparency and the provision of information.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u250	They're clear of shame! The Secretary of State for Social Security — When do we remember the normal statutory hearings in the Committee on Labour and Social Security, or when we remember the discussions in the State budget over the past four years, what do we find? Very little or no information. This Government has introduced the latest monthly budget implementation demonstration in all statutory hearings, many of which are not yet available because it is not yet the date for this. But still, we provide the information. We ask what data you question and how many times — I will only give an example — in this House, the parties who at the time opposed asked something as simple as this: how many pensioners exist, by step, in the minimum pension? How many rural and social pensions do there exist? And how many times was that response given in four years? None! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u251	It can't be! ... The Quixotes of transparency? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Secretary of State for Social Security — but we will also talk about the statistical information that is included in this report. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are now available about 70 % of these statistics on the social security website for the month of October and all months before. Just consult and it's very easy: it's in the item that says " stats". [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also introduced a summary analysis report to statistics, which did not exist before. I can also mention the delay with which the social security accounts, during the time you have been ministers, have been disclosed on the site, and it is also very important to highlight. Speaking of transparency, there is one issue that memory cannot let us forget. in the context of social security, I remember the creation of a working group to create a social security reform announced by the Secretary of State of Public Administration to journalists—and no one else knows this report—in March 2014. Where is this report that gave rise, we all know, to the law that created the contribution of sustainability and that was considered unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court? Is that what you mean when we're talking about transparency? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u252	In the context of the matter under consideration, for a second intervention, Mr José Silvano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u253	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I started my speech in the future and only heard answers from the past! [[PS laughter and protests.]] In terms of the future, I would like to ask you: are you afraid of transparency? Who is afraid of transparency in this Parliament? [[PSD applause.]] Let me say something else, to end: to talk about transparency with all this morality, when he did not present the attached maps so that we could discuss the Budget? Oh, my God! You have no legitimacy to do it! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u254	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u255	Also for a second intervention, I have the floor of the Secretary of State for Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u256	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel completely at ease to talk about transparency. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u257	But we can also talk about what the future would be if you were government. [[PSD protests.]] There was no single measure on transparency in your Government Programme. They had zero measures! Zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u258	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now take a look at the proposal for a new Article 81. o -A, under the heading « Family allowance for children and young people », presented by the PCP. To intervene, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, within the framework of social protection, would like to highlight three CFP proposals that guarantee more support for children and young families and more support for the unemployed. I'm talking about enlargement to 4. the escalation of the family allowance, as well as the extension of the increase of the family allowance to the first three years of life of the child. This is a proposal that means more support for children and their families and will cover more than 130 000 children, reinforcing their social protection. It is a proposal that takes steps to create conditions for a broad extension of this social benefit. Another proposal from the CFP ensures that the food pension is no longer an obstacle to single-parent families' access to the increase in unemployment benefit. At present, the food pension is an element that makes it impossible for single-parent families in situations of unemployment to access the increase in unemployment benefit. With this proposal, the CFP corrects this injustice and ensures the increase in unemployment benefit and the increase in the number of unemployed who will be entitled to it. A third proposal from the CFP concerns the continuation of extraordinary support for long-term unemployed without social support. This is a proposal adopted in the previous State budget, which has already been implemented since its adoption and which remains in the current budget, meaning a social response to support for thousands of long-term unemployed who find themselves in a situation of greater deprotection and fragility. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u260	For an intervention, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, increase the family allowance for children during the first three years of life by the maximum amount that was paid only in the first and, in this increase, the family allowance of the 4. the step is the most relevant political choice of the strategy of support for young families with children of the current government and this parliamentary majority, which has on its base two very clear objectives: to reduce the poverty of children and young people and to support families in their ability to have the children they wish. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, this has to be said with all the words: where the former PSD and CDS government considered impoverishment an inevitable and condition for Portugal to emerge from the crisis, where the former PSD and CDS government accepted as a collateral effect of the adjustment process the increase of poverty in all age groups...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u262	You took the country to bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u263	That's a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u264	It's your fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u265	Mr President, you may say so, but all the children and young people who have become impoverished in this country when you have been government cannot do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u266	The lady was there at José Socrates' bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u267	If that was your option, sirs. PSD and CDS Members, PS, this government and this parliamentary majority... [[CDS-PP protests.]] The gentlemen. Members may scream but they will never shout enough to express what your governance has meant for families in Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u268	Scream? Oh, my God! Yell, yell at the goats!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u269	It's your fault! José Socrates and Vieira da Silva!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u270	I will repeat: the option of PS, this government and this parliamentary majority is to consider that support for young families with children, oriented towards the effectiveness of family policies and the breakdown of the generational reproduction of poverty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u271	You know how it went!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u272	... support for birth is an essential condition for the economic and social growth and development of our country and for the defence and sustainability of our social state. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the substantial strengthening of family allowance in these conditions, with a strategic role of support for families, is linked, in this State budget, to a cross-sectional intervention to various areas, for example, in the universalization of preschool for children from three years of age, in the strengthening of equal opportunities in public school, with the National Programme for the Promotion of School Success, or in the access of all families to a family doctor. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS and the PSD, if these priorities in support of young families with children say much about the essential reason for the work and ambition of this parliamentary majority and of this government, the deafening silence of the PSD and the CDS in their speeches on the size of support for families in this Budget says everything about what the right was in the previous government and continues to be in opposition. But most importantly, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, you say everything about the reasons why the PSD and the CDS are no longer, nor could they be, the Government of this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u273	in the middle they won the elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u274	Mrs Susana Lamas of the PSD Parliamentary Group spoke on the same subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group has always recognized the importance of the allocation of family allowance. We consider it to be a social benefit of greater relevance, both in the fight against child poverty and in the promotion of birth. These are concerns that we have already had, and that is why we are reviewing the proposals put forward. But it is good to remember that it was the PS government that, in 2010, ceased the allocation of family allowance to the 4. o is 5. the steps and eliminated the increase of the 1. o is 2. The steps. [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u276	The lady voted!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u277	We are not in favour of manipulative exercises such as what happened in 2008 and 2009 on the eve of the legislative elections by strengthening these benefits to then withdraw them in 2010.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u278	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u279	But we will always agree to compensate families for the burdens they have with children and young people, increasing the income available and reducing the situations of poverty and social exclusion. [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u280	We voted against, we voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u281	We also review the CDS proposal that aims to improve the family allowance for children and young people with disabilities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u282	Mr José Soeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good to remember that the previous government kept cuts in the family allowance for the 4th. o is 5. the steps—and kept them because this was their option—and the freezing of values. In 2016, we included in the State budget increases in family allowance between 2 % to 2 %, 5 %, about 5 €, for 1. the step, and, on the proposal of the Block, was increased the value of family allowance for single-parent families and families with children with disabilities. For 2017, a significant step is taken in this Budget. It is very important, on the one hand, to extend this increase to 4. the step and, on the other hand — and this is a paradigmatic change — broaden the value of the family allowance that exists in the first year to the first three years of the life of children, which are the years in which there is more expenditure and in which child poverty is more severe in our country. So the Left Block is proud to also be part of this commitment to enlargement and to the change in family allowance. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u284	Mrs. Members, let us now proceed to the discussion of Article 82. o — Legislative authorization under the contribution scheme of self-employed persons. For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, with regard to the proposal now under consideration, the Left Block welcomes the legislative authorization in question. The contribution scheme of self-employed workers has been the subject of debate for a long time, especially because of the lack of justice that has been associated with it. Therefore, it is important to note that one of the problems of the contributions of these workers is the intermittentness that is so often associated with green receipts, and that creates inequalities, as well as the lack of access to rights such as unemployment benefit or other benefits that depend on the continuity of contributions. However, it is important for the Left Block that we be at a time when these workers are no longer denied a continuity of contributions through a mechanism of minimum monthly amounts for this purpose. Another of the great injustices for green receipts, especially for those who take from lower values, was the value of the contribution and its base of incidence. in the same way, we are now moving towards a proposal that limits the reference period to which their contributions are concerned, which we think of the greatest justice because what they discount has to effectively correspond to what was taken over in the coming months. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u286	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has not complied with the law. And it failed because it had committed itself to making a change to the contribution regime of self-employed workers in 2016,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u288	Is the year over yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u289	... to ensure that their contributions are in accordance with the incomes actually taken. And not only did he not do so as he now presents a legislative authorization to amend this contribution scheme. however, we do not know what will change, neither when nor how!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u290	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u291	Today the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, in this House, said that this Government values Parliament. Is this to value Parliament? To escape the debate on such an important, complex and delicate matter, as is the contribution regime of independent workers, in the Assembly of the Republic is not to value the Assembly, it is to flee to the serious and important debate that it is! So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be very attentive to everything that has been done, with regard to self-employed people and their contribution regime, because we will never allow the balance between the relationship between workers and social security and the need to ensure their sustainability, always in terms of social justice. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u292	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u293	Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on this last speech by Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, I cannot help but wonder at the last sentence she said regarding self-employed people : « it is necessary to ensure the sustainability of the social security system ». the State Budget for 2014 found two standards in which the sustainability of social security was surely the last of the concerns. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] But it was not only the sustainability of social security that was the last of the concerns, it was also the safety of independent workers, in the constitution of their social protection. Otherwise, let's see: we have 60 % of self-employed people on the zero scale, which should be an extraordinary step and it is a step that does not protect self-employed people. The decrease in social security incomes with this rule that you introduced into the State Budget for 2014 on the impacts of which they were questioned and did not respond, is indeed very serious, either for the sustainability of social security, or for the social protection of self-employed. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I know it costs, but it hasn't been that way for so long and its impacts and effects still feel like today. But yes, Mrs Isabel Pires, it is very important that we make this change in the system of self-employed people, because it is an amendment that will allow these workers to pay their contributions in the light of their most recent relevant incomes. This is certainly one of the main amendments. It is therefore together that we will do so, in accordance with the detailed rules contained in this legislative authorisation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u295	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, from the PSD, spoke on this point of our work. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u296	Mr President, I just wanted to say the following: The Secretary of State, do not run away from the debate, do not run away from Parliament. But if the Secretary of State wants to go to the past and since she spoke in the 2014 Budget, then I remind you that it would be important for her to have a little more political humility and recognize that whoever gave social protection for the first time to self-employed, allowing them to have access to unemployment benefit, it was the PSD/CDS government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u297	The Bureau received an indication that Ms.Claudia Joaquim would like to make a new intervention. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u298	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, the protection of unemployment to self-employed people, which you have introduced... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u299	... and that we are reviewing, had a small problem: it only prevailed two years ago, I repeat, two years ago. There was no information system... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u300	That's a lie! Don't you know what the constitution is? That's intellectual dishonesty! It's not serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u301	...and only after two years and eight months is that the first independent workers had the right to such protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u302	Mrs. Members, let us now proceed to the discussion of Article 88. o — Extraordinary updating of pensions. Several Mrs are registered. Members and, following the order of inscriptions, I give the floor first to Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the discussion on pensions it is important to start by saying that today we are discussing increases in pensions and reforms, we are not discussing cuts or freezings. [[PCP applause.]] The initial proposal in the State budget is a continuous and committed intervention by the CFP. At no time do we give up fighting for the real increase in pensions and for the proposal we are defending, the increase of €10 for all pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u304	But they only fought a little!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u305	We did it in the State Budget for 2016, and we were alone defending this proposal, and we do it in this State Budget. We appreciate the proposal contained in the Budget, by its scope and meaning, to guarantee an increase of €10 to a large majority of pensioners, and we also value the response that the Government gave to this discussion, in which the CFP insisted, and if it were not this persistence and insistence we would be today as we were at the beginning of the discussion of this State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u306	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u307	Even beyond the proposal of the CFP, of an increase of €10 for all pensions, we believe it is important that the Government has considered this advance in respect of minimum pensions. With regard to PSD and CDS, it is not possible to take seriously the proposals of those who have cut and frozen pensions for four years, now proposing the opposite and, rather, seeking to hide their true intentions to return to the past, to the policy of cuts, freezings, to a policy of impoverishment that they have practiced for four years and that they would continue to practice today, as is indeed evident in their intention, after the troika, to cut 600 million euros in pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u308	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u309	The CFP gives today, as it has in the past, to combat all these intentions. We propose the extraordinary increase of 10 € for all pensions, minimums and the rest. We thus guarantee the strengthening of social protection for those who receive social pensions, we value the contribution pensions, the long careers of workers who have discounted during a lifetime of work and who deserve to see their pensions valued. The CFP proposal gives a more effective expression to the recovery of income and rights and meets the aspirations of pensioners and pensioners. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u310	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, within the framework of a series of contacts and working meetings that have taken place with our Parliament, are in the forum of the Diplomatic Corps, a parliamentary delegation of the House of Deputies of the Federal Republic of Brazil, which I greet on our behalf and on your behalf. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause, stand up.]] Continuing the assessment of Article 88. I give the floor to Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS proposal for the extraordinary increase in rural, social and minimum pensions of 1. the step well demonstrates why this Budget is so difficult for the PSD and CDS — it is good for the country! Lost in a path that has only to offer the past, also in this proposal the right accuses the Government of being austere on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and of being an expansionist on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Now I'd give too much, now I don't give enough. That is all: we would now not have any growth, now the largest quarterly growth in the euro area is not enough; now we would have a budgetary imbalance, now the lowest deficit of the last 42 years will be little; now the Devil is coming, now this secular government will have, after all, metaphysical properties and has avoided until the coming of Satan. There were no rectifications? Yeah, that's not enough. Do we have any salary increases? Yeah, it's bad! Do we have the largest net job creation in the last five years? He's modest. They have complied with the Constitution, Mr. Members of the government? It's not ambitious! PSD and CDS even wanted to change it. The problem is that by saying all this and its opposite, the right speaks of a country that does not exist and for a country that does not exist. And that is what the debate on pensions represents: a non-existent country! This is a difficult budget for opposition to the exact extent in which it expresses the success of this majority. The opposition has failed and there is no plan B or any other than the reorient. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Budget also here gives continuity to the strategy of a government that has fulfilled, that has fulfilled with the country, that has fulfilled with the middle class, that has fulfilled with the workers, that has fulfilled with the social state, that meets with the pensioners who have been diluted by the radicalism of the PSD and the CDS, who are now clearly disoriented. They went from that phase when they said that the country was better and that the Portuguese were worse and had not yet realized that the country was better, to that stage when, measured in right-standard A and right-standard B, the country today is worse, the Portuguese are better and still have not noticed that the country has worsened with this governance. [[Congrats from PS MP Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Portuguese do not accompany you in this self-assessment. That is why we have come to the pensions and the proposals that are presented to us. I still thought there was some lapse, but no, there's no lapse. PSD and CDS really want to increase pensions. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following your Bible references, let me tell you that the State Budget does not serve to atone for your sins. [[PS Members' laughs.]] Mrs. Members, PSD and CDS, who delivered an EPC in Brussels with a cut of EUR 600 million in paid pensions this year... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... — and it is not a lie, can we distribute the framework that shows this proposal in the Stability and Growth Plan — do you want to increase pensions after you have proposed a cut of 600 million euros? Oh, my God! The PSD and CDS, which, according to your own Government Programme, plunged into this Assembly of the Republic, wanted to keep the contribution pensions frozen today, want to increase pensions? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u312	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u313	The PSD and CDS, who wanted to partially privatize social security by calling it ceiling, today want to talk about contributing distribution? The PSD and CDS, which cut into the solidarity complement for the elderly and thereby increased poverty among the elderly for the first time in many years in our country, do they today talk about poverty among the elderly? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, your inconsistency remains with your demagogy, but this majority and the Socialist Party do not accompany you in your demagogy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] with us the formula becomes updated after the freezing that you have made, and there is a correction of the formula of 1. the step, thus protecting from inflation almost 90 % of pensions. But we do more: we will have an extraordinary update of 10 € to 1, 5 million pensioners who had frozen pensions between 2011 and 2015 and who would continue to have frozen pensions if you were government by 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With this we protect pensioners with greater effort and thus also preserve the contribution component of the public social security system. But we do more: by complementing a comprehensive pension and income recovery policy, we present a proposal for rural, social and minimum pensions of 1. the step, so that they can have an extraordinary increase of 6 € also next year. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we will vote against your proposals and that is why this is such a difficult budget for the banks on the right. We are not just making a historic increase in pensions, we are giving the country a new hope. And you, who have put so much faith in the coming of the Devil, have perhaps ignored the belief of this government and the Portuguese resilience to build a better future for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u314	Mr. José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u315	Mr President, the extraordinary increase for all pensioners up to €630 is probably the most significant mark of the recovery of income in this State budget. It is also revealing the difference that this political solution makes in the concrete lives of people and especially people who live with less. If the right still governs, it is good to remember, maintain-CL - the freezing of pensions and the law which was now resumed in 2016 and we would be discussing today how to implement the 2400 million euro cut in pensions throughout the legislature, which was the right compromise. That is why, obviously, the proposals on the right in the specialty, in this budget, are simply not to take seriously. If the Socialist Party ruled alone, we would not, of course, be discussing and implementing an increase in this nature today, that surely all parties of the majority are proud. So in conclusion, I want to say that this extraordinary increase in pensions is the mark of the persistence of the left, it is the product of intense negotiations and the Left Block greatly values the path made and the results we could reach. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u316	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, within the framework of this article, the CDS proposes that the lowest pensions be covered by the extraordinary increase envisaged, i.e. that in August 2017 they be increased to €10. The position of the CDS is clear, coherent and consistent. In other words, in the past, the CDS has always proposed and has played a role in favour of the lowest pensions in the case of limited means and money. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u318	We have always preferred and always said that this was the line that would have to be followed, and it was followed in particular when we were government with the PSD. Think this may not be consensual, it's something.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u319	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u320	But you think it is possible to increase the highest pensions and not increase the lowest pensions, penalizing and punishing the lowest ones, it is bad, it is negative, it is a backward and, above all, shocking, it is shocking that you are willing to approve a penalty of the lowest pensions of the lowest ones. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Deputies Sonia Fertuzinhos and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] This is not our deal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u321	The speed of changing the jacket is already recognized to the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u322	We were the first party to put forward a proposal that lower pensions for the lowest were accompanied by the projected increase for the other pensions. And we know that the PSD agrees with this, has already declared it, and apparently the PCP will agree with this as well. If so, we would have a majority here in Parliament. But unfortunately, there will once again be a shocking hypocrisy on the part of the PCP and the Left Block, which in the past proposed €25 increase and now remain silent in the face of this blatant inequality, in the face of the poorest and lowest pensions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u323	Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD submits proposal 263 - C, amending Article 88. the, because we want pensioners to be treated with justice and without social discrimination, which the government does not. We want pensioners with lower pensions also to benefit from an exceptional increase. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u325	We want this exceptional increase to be made from 1 January 2017, respecting the value attributed by the government to the extraordinary pension update. We refuse that the exceptional increase in pensions will be made on the eve of autarchic elections. We want respect for the principles of equality, justice and social equity and that pensioners with the lowest pensions of the lowest are not left behind. Let me ask you, in the light of the proposals put forward, Mr Socialist Party's question as to whether, with the presentation of the proposal which now brought the debate, the PS was ashamed of the proposal put forward by the Government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u326	It is that the government's proposal, which was, in fact, much more unfair, has been corrected with a harsh injustice, so they have already taken a step. I would also like to tell you that what we did before, Mr. Members of the Socialist Party, it was precisely to correct three bankruptcies in which you left the country. [[PSD applause.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u327	And the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block were forced to hold a hand full of very little, when they first asked a lot. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u328	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u329	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, we have often discussed the issue of updating pensions, but it is always good to go back to the subject, especially when we hear some statements again. So, there was an update by the previous government, only for some pensions, which were not the lowest, since there were 266 000 pensions worth less than €275 to update — this is the first criterion of equality. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u330	More than 1 million have been updated!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u331	I would also like to highlight another issue. Indeed, in recent times we have discussed this issue, there has already been recognition that only 1 has been updated. the escalation of minimum pensions. Interestingly, today, all minimum pensions have been updated. However, during the previous government, approximately 770,000 minimum pensions of 2 were not updated. the 4th. The stairwell. As for the decision to update only when there is a budgetary strike, we will remember what happened from 2014 to 2015 with the ESC ( extraordinary contribution of solidarity ). The ESC had an impact on pensions above 1000 €. The amendment made by the PSD/CDS Government, which made the ESC move to focus on pensions above 11 IAS ( indexing of social support), €4600, and only for the differential above that value, resulted in a difference in terms of payment to the State of EUR 637 million. What could have been done, in terms of updating lower pensions, if this reduction in the ESC had been a little more gradual? It's not, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? That's right! Perhaps they did not need to mention in the Government Programme that all pensions would be frozen by 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u332	That's the logic of potato!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u333	With regard to an issue referred to by Mrs Mercês Soares, the PSD proposal has a consequence, or then I confess that I did not understand and I would like it to be explained to me. If the increase of 10 € starts in January and falls within the same budget expenditure, it seems to me mathematically that there would only be one solution, which was that in January to be increased 1 € to 1, 5 €, not reaching 2 €. When we arrived in December, we would have these pensioners with more that 1 or 1, 5 €. In 2018, it would affect this value the normal update. That is, what you propose is far from an update of 10 €. Maybe they can explain this question. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u334	Under this theme, Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u335	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, allow me to pay you a question before answering your question. Does the Secretary of State not feel uncomfortable and unauthorized with the proposal put forward by the Socialist Party? The woman who here, in this Chamber, in the plenary, was so much beaten that there was no increase in minimum pensions for the punishment of pensioners whose pensions had been updated!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u336	But is that your concern in this debate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u337	And I also want to tell you this: our proposal is very clear. And with so many accounting and accounting masters, they will certainly understand it very well. It is a proposal to correct the very serious injustices that you introduce with your proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u338	You can't count!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u339	The Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u340	Mr President, Mrs Mercês Soares, you have not answered my question, because your proposal is not technically possible. [[PSD protests.]] But I have no problem answering your question. I don't feel any trouble. There is a basic principle in this update that the Government has proposed, that is to value and minimize that which was the non-upgradation of pensioners who have low pensions and who have many years of contributing career.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u341	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u342	The average career contribution of the pensions you have updated is 9 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u343	We're almost halfway there! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u344	We have pensioners with contributing careers of 30 years, 25 years, 29 years, with pensions of 300 €, which between 2011 and 2015 maintained the same value. Therefore, this proposal submitted by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group maintains this appreciation to correct this situation for these pensioners. I don't feel any bother, Mrs Deputies, but I would really like to know how it increases €10 in January, and it keeps the same budget expenditure at the end of the year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u345	Mrs. Members, the debate between the banks seems to be lively, but we will continue with the proposal 272 - C, signed by the PSD, of Article 88. o -A — Assessment of the sustainability of social protection systems. Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the concern about the sustainability of the social security system has been constantly used to generate confusion and ideological popes. The parties of this government reject all attempts to debate the social security system openly and extensively. They ensure that there is no sustainability problem, but they create taxes to reduce the problem that they say does not exist. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u347	The Portuguese have the right to know the truth about their system and the sustainability of their social protection system. Only with the truth can we take care of it, defend it and guarantee this support to those who benefit from it today, but it will also support those who contribute today and the generations who will come to contribute. We therefore propose that the Council of Public Finance become responsible for regular independent evaluation of the sustainability of social protection systems, with total political and partisan exemption, ending with data manipulations, introducing rigour in the discussion where electoralist dogmas are being shaken today. Mrs. Members of the majority, what scares you so much with truth and rigour? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u348	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u349	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to clarify that the proposals they have put in place do not bring anything new into the legislation which falls within the framework of the Council on Public Finance. The Council of Public Finance, with the legislation it has and with which it is in force, can develop all the reports and all the proposals that you make. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u350	We turn to a proposal for Article 88. o-B — Addition to Decree-Law No 176 / 2003 of 2 August 2003. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u351	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to note that this proposal for an amendment, which gives a variable amount of disability bonus to children and young people according to the steps of the family allowance presented by the CDS-PP, is inadequate and extemporaneous. It is inappropriate because it leaves out more than 13 000 children and young people who are today those who go beyond 3. the step, which, in the proposal of the CDS, are excluded. And it is extemporaneous because, at the moment, the government is developing a new social benefit for people with disabilities, which aims to improve their living conditions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u352	So it's not extemporaneous!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u353	On the same point, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u354	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, I do not understand. The honourable Member says that our proposal is temporary but that the government is working on it. So, if you're working on it, it's not enshrined in the Budget. And the question is that the government will announce promises in succession, but then it will not commit itself to them. It is precisely to help the government to fulfill what it promises that we have taken the initiative to present in the budget what the government wants to do, whether it wishes to grant. So, surely, the Socialist Party and the other left-wing majority will have no difficulty approving this proposal because it corresponds exactly to what it is announcing to the country it will do. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u355	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u356	Mr President, it is only to say very quickly that, for the new provision of disability, there is, as the Social Security budget states, a provision of EUR 60 million, which adds to the current expenditure of benefits already available to people with disabilities and, in fact, that includes disability bonus. I was still in doubt which results directly from the proposal. currently, disability bonus is paid to all children regardless of the family allowance step in. If your proposal were approved, it would exclude 13,000 children. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u357	We move on to proposal 256 - C of the PSD to add Article 88. o-B — Reform of social protection systems. Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u358	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Madam Secretary of State for Social Security, I ask you not to be so reactive, so conservative in relation to the proposals that are made, in particular that of my colleague Joana Barata Lopes, on the intervention of the Council on Public Finance. What we propose is that this Council be more important, more force,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u359	Sure! ...you've done a spectacular job! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u360	... that your report be examined and analysed in Parliament. My question on this subject, Madam Secretary of State, is very simple: where is the problem? Where is the problem of having an agent, a public body capable of making a more serious and stricter assessment of the social security situation, of bringing this report to Parliament for discussion? There is, in my view, no problem whatsoever, unless the Secretary of State finds a problem with transparency and the question of avoiding the opacity of the system. But I wanted to talk about something else, which is not a new issue in Parliament — the PS has already brought it here in June — saying the following: this budget brings bad news to the social security system. It brings bad news, since then, because it says that contributions for 2017 will lower, for 2016, 260 million euros. Bad news!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u361	Down? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u362	It brings another bad news when it says that what is possible to transfer from Portuguese taxes is EUR 420 million, that is, the welfare system remains weak, unsustainable! The third bad news that the Budget brings is the following: to ensure some sustainability, we will create a new tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u363	Where did you go to see that? to your 2015 maps?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u364	This new tax will bring EUR 160 million to the social security system. It is true that the social security system is unbalanced and it is necessary to combat this imbalance, it is necessary to give it sustainability in order to give peace to those who enjoy the benefits and, above all, to give serenity and trust to those who are contributors.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u365	Tell me who cut the disease allowance!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u366	We therefore propose that a committee of experts should be set up as indicated by Parliament, the Economic and Social Council, the Council of Public Finance, so that in 180 days they may present a study and, on the basis of this study and other studies, the proposed law of the Government and the draft laws be submitted. It is true that we fear that there will be an imbalance in social security. There's something we need to do! We do not resign ourselves, we really want to reverse the imbalance situation for which social security is taking a long step. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u367	Mrs. Members, there are no entries in respect of articles relating to Chapter VII. Thus we move on to Chapter VIII, starting with Article 102. o — Financing of the State budget. Mrs Inês Domingos, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u368	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, it is very appropriate to conclude today's debate on debt, which well summarizes the difference in vision between the PSD and the left. The former Government succeeded in 2015 in starting the Portuguese public debt reduction process. Unfortunately, this government has also reverted this achievement. The Banco de Portugal showed this week that the state debt rose by EUR 12 billion in a year, net of EUR 9 billion. It has reached a historic peak, Mr President, and the Government has no credible plans to reduce debt, but in this same article it increases debt over the previous years, thus leaving Portugal more fragile against financial markets. This is also why this is a Coastal Navigation Budget. What does this government leave for the future, Mr President? Debt! What does it leave for our children and grandchildren? Debt! What does it leave the others to pay? Debt! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u369	He also has the floor with regard to Article 102. o Mr João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u370	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês Domingos, I hope that the PSD will be aware that they have pushed the bank problem under the carpet, we have had the BANIF resolution at the end of 2015 and we have to recapitalise the General Deposit Box is something that requires increased indebtedness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We wanted to know, then, whether the PSD is against these proposals and, therefore, whether we would let BANIF fail without doing anything and whether, in fact, it did not have any capitalisation plan of the General Deposit Box, because that is the question that the honourable Member has to answer. [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] If the honourable Member does not like the budget allocation to recapitalize the public bank, then assume the one that all Portuguese have already realized is the position of their party: they defend that it runs the worst possible, so that they can finally do what they want, which is privatising the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u371	In the meantime, the Bureau also made a request by Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u372	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, public debt is probably one of the subjects where the government's propaganda is far from reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u373	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u374	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u375	It is not just a matter of not having fulfilled anything they had predicted and that your famous group of wise men — perhaps not as wise as it is when the reality of lying to them every day — had predicted it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u376	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u377	In fact, today's debt is the taxes we left for our children and for our grandchildren to pay, which, thanks to your governance, are today more than they were a year ago. Nor does it fail to be extraordinary that the government that announces — excuse me for the expression — with a large savings of EUR 40 million in interest, because it reimbursed the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ),...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u378	I just didn't say how much she stopped saving.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u379	... forget to explain that what was planned was a rather larger refund, which would make it possible for greater savings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u380	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u381	And it has also forgotten to answer the CDS-PP question, which is to know how much the financial cushion is far above what you themselves have foreseen costs to Portuguese taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u382	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u383	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there may be explanations about the banking system, but the great explanation for the need to have so much money in the safes is the fact that you are afraid of markets. And they are afraid of markets because the interest in Portugal, in view of the interest in the market and the interest in other countries, are rising! They're coming up and they're getting out of the Portuguese pocket!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u384	Now here are the market agents!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u385	Your policy has a price: that is what we pay most in interest for the risks that you put in the country. That is what I agreed that they would explain and now that they would also account for, because, on our account, interest is already going to be over 100 million euros this year. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u386	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the proposal submitted by the CFP, a new Article 108. o -A — Reduction of charges and reversal of public-private partnerships. Mr. Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u387	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, growing national wealth parcels are being diverted to the payment of public debt interest and to the financing of ruinous public-private partners. These are resources that are needed in the country. When EUR 10 billion is spent annually on public debt interest and public-private partnerships, there is obviously a lack of resources to increase investment, to recover national production, to improve public services and social functions of the State and to restore workers' labour and social rights. In order to study and prepare the renegotiation of public debt within its time limits, interest and amounts, the CFP proposes the establishment of a public body to assess the evolution of debt and its interest and determine its complete and rigorous dimension. We also propose that the Government carry out the necessary efforts to reverse public-private partnerships to the State. These are proposals that respond to the national imperative of freeing ourselves from constraints, which, immediately, limit economic and social recovery and, within a longer period, eliminate the hypotheses of lasting and balanced development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u388	The debate around this article and also Chapter VIII is closed. Therefore, I give the floor to Vice-Secretary Emília Santos to make an announcement to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u389	Mr President, you have entered the Bureau, and it has been approved by Mr President, draft resolution No 549 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Increase in national minimum wage ( CFP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-24.u390	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the next plenary session will take place tomorrow, 25 a.m. at 10 a.m., with the continuation of the debate, in the speciality, of Bill No 37 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017. First, the rules avoked by the plenary will be discussed. I remember that, for this purpose, time is 5 minutes for the government, for each parliamentary group and for the NAP. Secondly, the vote will take place on the Rules of Procedure and on the Rules of Procedure and on the Articles and Proposals for Amendment sent to the Plenary. Finally, we will continue the debate on the speciality of the bill, for which each parliamentary group, the NAP and the Government will have the total amount of time taken from the one they have today. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 31 minutes.]]
