ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum, so I declare open the sitting. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] As you know, the President of the Assembly of the Republic is at the informal summit of the Presidents of the European Union today and tomorrow. It is therefore up to me to preside at today's sitting in place. I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. I also ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mr Pedro Alves, to report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, information that gave entry to the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 307 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates a new legal regime to combat harassment at the workplace ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 308 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to the Electoral Law of the Bodies of Local Authorities, approved by the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August 2001 ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 309 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extends the death transmission regime of the rent for housing and guarantees the transmission by death in rehousing for works or demolition ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 310 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — prolongs for 10 years the period of application of the new urban lease scheme for renters with corrected annual gross income ( RABC ) less than five annual national minimum wages ( RMA ) for leasers aged 65 or over or with a disability of 60 % or more and for non-residential lease ( PCP ), lower than 11. the Commission, 311 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extend the National Rent Balcony and renew the special judicial clearance procedure ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 312 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensure reallocation in the case of works in leased buildings ( Fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 157 / 2006 of 8 August 2006 - Legal Scheme of Works in Rented Buildings, first amendment to Law No 6 / 2006 of 27 February 2006 — New Urban Rent Scheme and 70. the amendment to the Civil Code ) ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 313 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of tenants in the event of termination of lease contracts ( Third amendment to Law No 6 / 2006 of 27 February, as amended by Law No 31 / 2012 of 14 August, and Law No 79 / 2014 of 19 December – New Urban Rent Scheme ) ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 314 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amended Act No 19 / 2003 of 20 June 2003 introducing measures for fiscal justice, equal treatment and transparency in the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns ( BE ). the Commission, and 315 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Total and permanent conversion of reductions in public grants for the financing of political parties and for election campaigns and to the ceilings of election campaign expenditure ( PSD ), which falls to 1. the Commission. The draft resolutions Nos 488 / XIII ( 2 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — by the recovery of the Alexandre Herculano School in Porto ( PS ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 489 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the reactivation of the Mondego metro project and its inclusion in the railway investment plan 2016 - 2020 ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 490 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — payment of compensation due to workers dismissed from the House of Douro ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 491 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the budgetary allocation of the Rural Development Programme ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 492 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Programme of specific actions related to remoteness and insularity ( POSEI ) ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I hope that during this afternoon memorable news arrives for Portugal, but this is the time to focus on the agenda which, as you know, is marked by an agenda of the CDS-PP, of appreciation, in general, of Bill No. 306 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the Basic Law of the Education System. I would also like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members who, after our consideration of this item on the agenda, will have a vote. To present the diploma, I give the floor to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS announced in this House last week the presentation of a draft review of the Basics Law of the Education System. The reactions of the parties to the left, even before they had analyzed, studied, discussed or even read it, were of open hostility. Now that you have had the opportunity to know the project, we hope that you will consider it as it is: an opportunity to present your ideas and your contributions to the improvement of the Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u6	Our proposal, which is undoubtedly the CDS, is just the starting point. to meet ours, we wait for your proposals. We expect, in the CDS, but more than that, the educational communities — students, parents, teachers, directors and non-teachers — who insist on asking this Parliament for stability, predictability and confidence. [[CDS-PP applause.]] With this initiative, the CDS aims to open a discussion on the Basics Law of the Education System, 30 years after its entry into force, so that some rules are laid down that guarantee the stability of the system and that education ceases to be a political and ideological scene with high costs for schools and families throughout the country. After 30 years the world has changed, changed the country, changed the students and the school also has to change. Knowing how to follow the change, making the foundation of the education system evolve is essential so that the country does not become stagnant in 2016 or, even worse, imprisoned in 1986. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a world of 3.0 we can't keep a law of teleschool time. The proposal we bring here assumes, of course, and without complexes, the DNA of the CDS, i.e. principles that we always defend because we believe that an inclusive system is thus built, capable of reaching more students and more parents, ensuring that they have conditions for active participation in their children's school life and can better reconcile professional life and family life, proposing, in this sense, to equalize the review of the school schedule. The greater participation of parents in the decisions of their children's school life is one of the essential ideas that we understand to have dignity so that it is based on the Basic Law of the Educational System. Another of the central aspects of our proposal lies in matters that have been on the table over the years, giving rise to successive changes or threats of change, such as the concepts of 'autonomy' and 'decentralisation'. They are concepts that must be enshrined in the Basic Law of the Educational System, clarified so that all of them can be seen. It was important, and perhaps even positive, a period of experimentation, but today it is pressing that they be integrated into the Law, so that they become consistent and consequent and that the time of political setbacks at the expense of the educational system ends. The reorganization of the education cycles in two major six-year cycles — basic and secondary, essentially by abolishing the second cycle, which does not continue the first cycle or properly prepares the students for the next — is one of the structural lines of our proposal. It is intended to clarify a pedagogical orientation that gives meaning to compulsory schooling and is not a blanket of flaps that finds its main justification in history. Moreover, and as you will certainly know, this is an idea that has been defended for a long time by former PS ministers such as Prof. Júlio Pedrosa, and PSD, such as Prof. David Justino, whether by academics such as Prof. João Formosinho or Prof. Sérgio Nice, or also in the recent reflection promoted by the CNE (National Council of Education) on the Basic Law of the Educational System, still finding international support in the reality of many European countries. The universalization of pre-school education at the age of three and compulsory at the age of five, covering all networks of kindergartens, state and non-state, is also one of the bases that we present. Pre-school education is the right time for a set of initial screenings of motority, hearing, vision, training of skills that enhance learning, sociability. The more children, and in particular those who come from disadvantaged contexts, access this type of intervention, the greater opportunity for access to school success we will be giving them. [[CDS-PP applause.]] None of these ideas is a mere flowering to integrate into a law with this weight, with this meaning and which is intended to last. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not come here to propose sudden measures of suspicion, creating ruptures, nor is it our aim to make this proposal a political attack on what has been done so far. We do not use education for revolutionary processes. We propose an evolutionary transformation, a new law of foundations, with a necessary progression, made without surprise, based on stabilized concepts and above all on a commitment, for the benefit of all, starting from this Parliament, the right place to initiate a legislative process. [[CDS-PP applause.]] in Parliament, because it is our responsibility, listening to and participating in all discussions with all actors of the educational community, beginning with the CNE but also students, families, unions, directors, the academy and, of course, the teachers, who from here meet, in the first plenary after the celebration of the World Teacher's Day. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is precisely here in Parliament that the discussion must begin and complete, first in a general debate, then giving room to all contributions and all weighting and finally reaching the final moment of the compromise which may generate the necessary stability for the following 30 years. Because it is the next 30 years that are the reason for this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u8	It is that we can continue to blame or start preparing for the next 30 years and it is for the future that we have to adapt and change, change with stability and change with predictability. This is what the President of the Republic asked us to do at the beginning of the academic year at the NEC — and I quote: "To be able to reconcile the change with the minimum of stability and predictability in the system and appropriate relevance to truly lasting values is the greatest difficulty in defining and implementing educational policies. It is not possible, it is not desirable that every government, every majority that wishes to be able to review, reform everything that appears to contradict doctrinal positions or electoral promises, most of the time without prior evaluation of existing regimes, and do so instantly to solutions, casuistically, in accordance with political inspiration (...). Not changing is no solution. Knowing how to change in a climate of stability and predictability is the indispensable talent." It is this stability that the CDS wants to see enshrined in the Basics Law, without introducing ruptures for six years, with assessments of what has been achieved, so that the change is predictable and always for the best. It is that if there is no predictability, they change manuals and increase the cost for families; they change programs and increase the effort of teachers; they change evaluation instruments and we can even facilitate, but we stop knowing if we improve something. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents its ideas here, but it is not, nor could it be, with all seriousness, a closed proposal; it is a starting point. Don't move the political feud. What moves us is the launching of a process that must result in a consensual document, a vision for education, for a consistent and calm evolution of the model we have today for a model that we all consider to be better for the country. Today, we hope that this proposal will be made viable and brought to the Commission so that, democratically, all contributions will be received and all solutions that can sustain the next 30 years in a system of which we all want to be proud. This is our proposal, without attacks, without intent, without guilt. This one, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our responsibility to prepare the future. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u9	Five were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. The Bureau is informed that Mrs Ana Rita Bessa wishes to answer one by one. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u10	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, once again I greet her, as well as the CDS, for bringing the issue of education to this House. I will ask you two questions, the first one being: what is essential and urgent to change today in the educational system which cannot be done without the legislative amendments proposed by the CDS today to this Basic Law? The second question is this: which studies, what is the extended reflection on which this Basic Law is based? Should not this discussion be made from the base to the top and not the reverse? Should knowledge and hearing not precede political action? What's moving you? Above all, I hope that what you can move is the appreciation of public school and the construction of a school for the 21st century. The PS has always defended this school, and will continue to do so, taking into account that the last amendment to the Basics Law in 2009 aimed at the extension of compulsory education to 12 years as well as the universalization of preschoolers, was adopted with a broad consensus in this House. They call us for consensus and stability. But this consensus and stability must, in our view, be preceded by a time of auscultation, a time of knowledge. The 30 years of the Basic Law are now celebrated, in which the National Council for Education is also involved, whose studies and analyses we would also like to know. We don't know why these commemorations haven't come to an end. from that question whether, in this whole process, there will be no precipitation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u11	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u12	Mr President, Mrs Susana Amador, with regard to her questions, I note, first of all, that the PS accepts the premise that it is necessary to review the Basics Law, which, in fact, there is work to be done on this matter. Moreover, last week, when we introduced this issue into the political statement, Mr Porfirio Silva even accused me of some irresponsibility, asking whether I would be aware of the amount of debates, talks, articles and discussions, of the National Council of Education, of the President of the Republic, finally of all that was necessary to do and hear to form opinions. You said until I was disrespecting education in Portugal, as you presented yourself in Parliament — you see the strange place that the CDS chose to initiate a legislative process, Parliament! ... — a proposal to be voted on today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u13	Give us every thing in our head! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u14	So for the PS, I have two words: proposal and responsibility. Proposal is what the CDS brings here today, after a long auscultation work we have done on the ground and which does not prevent, does not withdraw,... [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] ... also includes much of what the CNE has already been hearing and working within the 10 debates it has planned, in addition to hearing directors, associations and parents, which even generated an open day for everyone at the end of July. In any case, we bring here a proposal. It is a starting point, it is not the end, it is the launching of a process in which all other information will be covered, all the other hearings that the honourable Member was aware of. The second word I have for the PS is responsibility. I believe that this is what we are asking the PS today, i.e. to present its contributions here in Parliament, which is the seat of this process. This is where the PS is asked, without being sure, to come to the debate and bring its proposals for education to 30 years. Or the PS wants to be consistent and review the Basic Law, bringing its proposals that, if they improve the current Law, enrich us all, listening to the CNE, in fact, as it may not have done when it changed the evaluation, also hearing teachers, directors, parents and students, students who have so much to say about it and who, as Mr Porfirio Silva knows, even last Friday, have brought us many of his complaints, being the main of them the need for stability... Therefore, either the PS wants to be consistent and bring his opinions or the PS is hiding from the Portuguese who is his vision for education, I fear, for tactics, because of the fear of bringing the fire the differences he has with the parties that support the government, with the PCP and with the Left Block, and ends up by chuming in what the PS itself believes in and is proposed in our basic law, such as, for example, the two cycles of six years, the universal autonomy, the universalization of the autonomy. How will it be, sirs? Ladies and gentlemen? Will they be consistent or will they vote against your own ideas? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u15	The Bureau draws attention to the fact that it will not condition the time of questions or the time of answers, since the same is discounted in the overall time allocated to each parliamentary group. To request clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u16	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, no one fully understands the reason for this debate now. Let's see if until the end of the debate we can understand what makes the CDS come here now with a proposal for a review of the Basic Law of the Education System. But, until then, let us suspect: to suspect that this review is a Trojan horse so that, the pretext of a general review of a allegedly outdated law, the CDS can put into the law what the country openly refused, which is to withdraw the responsibility of the State to create a network of educational and educational establishments that covers the needs of the whole population, doing what the country has refused, that is, to make of the contracts of association the school rule in this country. So one of the questions is whether or not the CDS changed the Constitution through an amendment to the Basic Law? Is this a Trojan horse or not? Or will it be concealment? Or will it be repentance? Why does the CDS come here to propose an appreciation of the role of education officials and parents in the democratic management of schools, when it belonged to a parliamentary majority and to a government that removed the parents from the pedagogical councils? Why? Why this contradiction?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u17	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u18	It is good to remember that the CDS has already been part of a majority parliament and, therefore, the country well knows what the CDS wants, good or bad, about public school. The country recalls that the President of the CDS, Assumption Cristas, has already said that it should be the public school to be sacrificed rather than the private school. The CDS has the hands dirty from the attack on the public school. This, Mrs Deputy, to get to this question: the CDS has already been part of a parliamentary majority; the CDS is today a minority but has already been a majority. Why didn't the CDS want to review the Basics Law at the time? Why didn't you come up with this proposal at the time? Let me risk a suggestion of reply: the CDS did not propose a change to the Basic Law when it could do so, when it could approve it, because it knew that the country did not want it, because it knew that it did not have a social majority for it, because it knew that it was isolated from this proposal to want to make association contracts and private education the rule of education in Portugal. Now, to conclude, I would like to ask you another question about stability. Where was Mrs. Deputy when Nuno Crato changed everything in a few months? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u19	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u20	Mr President, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, the argument of the Left Block about this bill has essentially to do with two issues: on the one hand, with the fact that the Left Block is apparently satisfied with the current Basics Law and, on the other hand, with the fact that the CDS has a problem with the consensus it reflects and we, in fact, enjoyed a different consensus. The fact is that we do not know what the Left Block would have voted in 1986 on this Law, because at that time the Block did not exist, but perhaps we do. It is, Madam Member, that I was studying the subject and found that in 2003 when the Basics Law was 17 years old, there was a debate here about its review. And, as I have time, I will read, with some calm, what was said by the Left Block at the time, especially by Mr. João Teixeira Lopes. He said: "In 17 years it was the whole country that has become: the company has changed, the family has changed, the street has changed, the television has changed; it has changed, and it has changed knowing that it can change and that it needs the school, the qualification, the social mobility it alone allows" — at which point Mr. Luís Fazenda says: « All right! Do not keep on seeking. ” And Mr. João Teixeira Lopes goes on to say: "Portuguese have never placed so much confidence and expectation in school and never had so little to offer to them. So it was time to move to school. That is why the debate is so important that we are continuing today. The Basic Law of the Education System, currently in force, was an important conceptual advance, but the country that portrays is no longer the same. The reflection on the changes to be introduced in school, reflecting changes in society, is also the result of the advance of scientific knowledge». And note now, Mrs. Member: « That is why the project of the Left Block proposes a new design of cycles, divided between high school and high school. We therefore advocate that the first six years correspond to basic education, bringing together the first and second cycles, and that is what is happening in the vast majority of the countries of the European Union ». [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u21	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u22	Further, he says: "All children must be entitled to an education for childhood. In desertified or economically depressed areas, in the case of children with low-skilled or economically powerful families, children over three years of age should be extended to childhood education, preventing educational disadvantages. — at this time Mrs Joana Amaral Dias says: "All right! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u24	So, ladies and gentlemen, let's see if we understand ourselves: after all, we know that two of the broad lines that I just said we were present in our proposal are defended by the Left Block. Madam Member, will you vote against yourself? Oh, my God! It is that this breach of opposition, taken to the limit, would turn against itself, Mrs Deputy. So I ask you: what will it be? You cannot « eat the cake and stay with it on the plate». They can't be in the government and in the opposition at the same time!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u26	So what's it gonna be like? Will you vote against yourself or will you accept the CDS proposals for future discussion? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u27	Don't! I'm going to vote against the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u28	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Nilza de Sena.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u29	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I begin by welcoming the CDS for this contribution. It is a valid contribution, a useful contribution, a contribution that will add to others who will come, and the PSD has every interest in making a serious and widespread discussion on this matter, which is a law-matrix of the entire educational system and to which we must all link. Madam Member, without prejudice to the fact that this discussion is useful, I have, however, some doubts which I would like to put to you. And because you cannot choose many of the points on which the CDS proposes amendment, there are two or three on which I would like to hear. The first point is about the proposal that the CDS makes progressively compulsory education at the age of five. We know that we have a pre-schooling rate that surrounds 96, 5 %, so it is a positive note for the country. in the international context, few systems extend schooling for 12 years, as indeed occurred by our government, in the previous legislation. Therefore, what I am asking, Mrs Deputies, is how, despite having this pre-schooling, the CDS assumes this issue as an absolutely essential issue. We know that in Europe we have only one country, which is the Netherlands, which has the system that the CDS proposes. Therefore, he asked what are the prospects, above all, of the impact of this specific measure. The second question, Mrs Deputy, has to do with the organization of the basic education system, which is Article 8. the, in which the CDS also proposes a change for only two cycles. at the bottom, absorbing the current 3. the secondary cycle. I ask the honourable Member what were the criteria underlying the existence of this proposal and whether the CDS estimated the impact it could possibly have on both physical and human logistical resources, whether even in terms of curriculum organization of its own cycles. I leave a final note, Mrs Deputies, to ask you, since the Basics Act also affects the area of higher education, why the CDS does not propose any further measures in this area. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u30	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u31	Mr President, Mrs Nilza de Sena, I thank you for your questions. I begin by answering your last question: the reason why we focused on non-higher education was because, as you know, of the three amendments that have already been made to the Basic Law two of the main mountains were fixed in higher education. thus, we understand that there is already a work and an update in this front.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u33	with regard to compulsory schooling at the age of five, as you know, one of the major problems of our system is the high rate of failure in the second year of schooling, in which the retention of about 11 000 students in this school year is estimated. We also know that the vast majority of schools where this happens are located in districts where there is a correlated lack of pre-school education. For example, Lisbon, Setúbal and Faro are the districts where these two factors occur mainly: school failure in 2. the year and lack of offer in pre-school. It seems to us, therefore, that it is crucial to grow the network in order to ensure that all children, at the age of five, are able to be in school, because we know that this is certainly a preventive factor of school failure that will be ahead. With regard to what you have asked me about secondary education, it is clear that all the proposals we make for the change of cycles in two, either secondary or, in the amount, in the basic, have repercussions, from the curriculum, then in the teachers and also in the edificate—so we introduced the question of gradualism—and therefore the proposals have to be weighed and discussed up to the point of view of budgetary capacity. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u34	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u35	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, first of all I welcome the CDS because it has brought to its ruling agenda the subject of education, because I think that, regardless of the divergent ideas we may have, it is a very important issue to discuss. I must, of course, pronounce myself concretely on the draft law presented by the CDS. in this sense, in view of the four main objectives that are presented and duly explained in the preamble of this diploma, I must say that I was indignant immediately with the first, in which the CDS proposes the consecration of the stability of educational policies. And why did I berate myself, Mrs. Member? Because I remember what happened in the past legislature, where by chance, or not, the government was PSD/CDS and the majority of parliament was just PSD/CDS. in this legislation, we saw a review or a curriculum reform, as they want to call it, without discussion with the educational agents—and I think it is very relevant to say this, Mrs Deputy—made in a hurry, in a manner that is taxive, without discussion with the interested ones themselves and in which one of the main objectives was the consecration of mother disciplines, Portuguese and Mathematics, and the decridification of other fundamental disciplines to education of our children and our young people, especially those of the artistic component. I remember, Mrs. Member, what they did to teachers and to the pedagogical team in the subjects of Visual Education, or what they didn't want to do. I remember how you increased the number of students per class, thus withdrawing higher learning conditions in the classrooms. And the teachers who are in the field have complained of this matter, Mrs Deputies! They have difficulty learning in the classroom. Do you remember the mass dismissal of teachers made by the previous government? [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u36	It was, moreover, one of the objectives of curricular reform and of the increase in the number of students per class. The former government may have been one of the governments that most disrespected teachers in Portugal. And we could gallop in the arguments of de-investment in education, reduction of social action in school, how they applied the PACC ( Test of Knowledge and Capacity Assessment ), that famous test of evaluation of teachers who did not evaluate very much none. Madam Member, this is to say that the first objective announced by the CDS in its draft law, which is that of stability, clearly sounds like falsity. He has no other name! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u37	On the other hand, Mrs Deputies, with regard to the other three major objectives which are drawn up on the subject of pre-school education at the age of three, of course, is an issue which is already announced, which is something we want to see implemented. There's no news on what the CDS brings here. On the question of decentralization, if the CDS with this means municipalization, I clearly say that we are not in favour of this matter, we are not in favour of differentiated means because of the territorial inequalities that this country has. Don't! We understand that education should be a factor in promoting equality and strengthening this equality. On the other hand, and finally, on the matter of association contracts, Mrs Deputies, it is no novelty if I tell you that the Greens are in favour of association contracts only when there is no public offer. We have had this discussion here in the Assembly of the Republic several times. That is why, honourable Member, I do not think that the CDS initiative is deeply credible and perhaps the only advantage it has in its presentation is the debate that must continue to be held on education. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u38	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u39	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I thank you for the quiet way in which you put your questions. I note that he was outraged by a number of measures taken by the previous Government. It could continue to be outraged by the way in which several other measures were taken by this government, precisely in the same terms, without such thought, without such anticipation, without that preparation. The truth is, if we always keep looking back, for what the education system has been, we will continue to be outraged by many changes that have been made and with which we do not agree and revolt and grind and crumble. The proposal we bring here today - and I said - when I presented it in the rostrum, without making any attack, without any process of intention and without pass-backs - is turned to the next 30 years. in this regard, register, Mrs Deputy, which agrees with us, that stability is necessary in the educational system, and also agrees that it is necessary to treat the universalization of preschoolers. Although you have spoken only about the four main points, I admit that if you read the amendment carefully, you will find many other matters where we may even have points of understanding. So, Mrs. Member, I ask you too: what will it be? Will you vote against yourself or vote for the stability of the system, which you also think is necessary? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u40	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u41	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, justified the CDS proposal with the downgrading of the Basic Law of the Education System. What are you out of date in this Act, Your Honor? Is the promotion of the democratization of education as a general principle, which have removed from your proposal? [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u42	Let me also say to you, Mrs Deputies, that it is at least unique that legislation built for months and in which thousands of people from the educational community — associations and representatives of workers, authorities and political parties — have participated — is now the target of a process of rapid changes and with a single objective, to ensure the business of education to private groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u44	Is it true or not, Madam Member, that the proposals that the CDS brings today the debate are essentially based on the inclusion of your concept of public school, i.e., public, private and cooperative and private professional, in order, in fact, to guarantee to private colleges the clients who allow them to secure business on behalf of a freedom of choice which in practice corresponds to public financing of private profit? Furthermore, how can we talk about the stability of educational policies, Mrs Deputy, when the government of which the CDS was part created the greatest instability that there is memory of leaving teachers in unemployment, with the lives suspended in relation to uncertain placement, leaving students without teachers at each beginning of school year? We still remember ex-Minister Crato having apologized to the Portuguese. Do you remember, Mrs. Member? Do you remember having imposed PAAC, removing thousands of teachers from your profession, when the entire educational community was opposed? No, Mrs Deputy, the stability of the education system acquires itself by fulfilling the Constitution, guaranteeing the rights enshrined there for families, for students, for all workers in education. It is achieved by a democratic school, financed according to its missions, focused on the student and their needs. It is ensured when the school is a space and a time when students enjoy being and where education professionals feel respected and valued. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u45	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the promotion of school success propagated by the CDS is open to us when we look at its government practice and we see that no concrete measures have been taken to combat failure and drop out of school and that elitism and segregation pathways have been created in public school, reproducing the existing social asymmetries and increasing the number of students per class. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the proposals presented by the CDS today go along with the problems faced by the public school, not presenting a single idea for the elimination of social asymmetries, for school dropout, for the reduction of the number of students per class, for the valorization of education workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u46	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u47	On the other hand, it aggravates the problems existing rather than strengthening and valuing the public school and its function established in the Constitution. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u48	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u49	Mr President, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira, if I understand it well, the argument of the CFP, which has already been put forward in the last week, is linked to the fact that they think that the Bases Act is entirely right and that it is not necessary to move on it, and on the other hand, to the fact that they are on the front line of defense of the public school, meaning that the CFP does not have to present constructive proposals, it simply has to be quiet to make that defense. [[PCP protests.]] In fact, Mrs Ana Mesquita spoke in great terms last week, in the tremendous contribution that the CDS has made to education and I really regret not finding a correspondence in that which has been the performance of the PCP, because the PCP is actually arrested in 1986 and does not have a single line of contribution. [[PCP protests.]] by the PCP, in good rigour, we would still be in the 1986 Basic Law without any transformation, which I can understand, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. I can understand that the CFP likes to be in 1986, even before Portugal entered the European Union and preferably even before Perestroika. I can understand that very well.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u50	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u51	Mrs. PCP Members, you know, the world has changed! Do you know what was the single most sold in 1986? It's a curious thing: Nikita, from Elton John. Do You Remember? This was the single most sold in 1986. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] The honourable Member, who should be very new at the time, would not have, perhaps, English knowledge, but most of the children, today, thanks to God, already have. Anyway, I will remind you of the translation of some of the lyrics of this song, which is very interesting: « If you arrive at a time that/ weapons and walls will no longer arrest you/ and if you are then free to make choices/ look at the West and find friends». Madam Member, if you want to leave behind the wall, if you want to make a tremendous contribution to education, please welcome the debate. [[PCP protests.]] After your proposals, tell what is coming to improve the system. This is the opportunity that the CFP has not had to show what it comes to, instead of standing behind the wall defending what it believes it has to defend. What's it gonna be like? Are you going to make proposals or are you going to stand up for it? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u52	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the news that we all hoped for came: António Guterres was hailed and unanimously appointed by the Security Council to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. [[Upstairs, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes.]] It is with great joy and no less emotion that I announce to the House that, with the agreement of all parliamentary groups, at the end of our work will be appreciated a vote of congratulation, using the word Members of all parliamentary groups. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue with our agenda, having the floor for an intervention, Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has brought to Portuguese politics the challenge of an agenda for the decade, the idea that, beyond normal and even healthy divergences between majority and opposition, in some areas the country needs substantive convergences that go beyond the horizon of legislatures. Education is certainly one of the fields where this need is more evident, since we understand that the consistent evolution of qualifications pushes more to the rhythm of generations than of the academic years. I'm afraid I'm insistently reaffirming it. Even recently, the PS Parliamentary Group, by the voice of Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, reaffirmed in this House our commitment to work to build educational convergences. I myself, in a fortnight debate in the previous Legislative Session, aroused to Mr. Prime Minister the difficulty of compatibility this need for convergence with the ideological radicalism of the right opposition. The Prime Minister replied: « The largest basis of national consensus is the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. » A clear and essential response that is our starting point to appreciate this initiative of the CDS review of the Basic Law of the Educational System. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the wrong of the CDS project is not that it contains proposals that we do not agree with. That is expectable and is part of democratic work. The problem is that this proposal is wrong in time and wrong in method. The durability of the first Basic Law sat in the depth and width of the debate that built it, contrary to the rush of the CDS, which understood that it was enough one week to throw the first stone and force a vote. There are numerous and varied initiatives under way to deepen the reflection on the Basics Law, with emphasis on the process led by the National Education Council. But the drive of the CDS for easy applause was stronger than the sense of responsibility to seek the time and manner appropriate to the construction of progressively extended understandings. To assume our responsibilities, we need to think in an integrated way. For example, the proposed reorganization of the study cycles, which deserves attention, implies rethinking the teacher recruitment groups and their skills for teaching, the physical capacity of schools and the responses that existing types facilitate or otherwise, as well as teacher training. Do you want us to vote on this proposal without having studied its implications? Oh, my God! To assume our responsibilities, we need to avoid excessive, intrusive regulation. For example, the CDS proposal on the school calendar does not seem to take sufficient care of reality. It is that, not by chance, the school calendar is defined annually, it goes from time to time through a dialogue with the authorities and associations of parents, it has to be articulated with the timetables of examinations and still communicates with higher education. The standard proposed by the CDS, disarticulated from this integrated vision, seems to even have some amateurism. The CDS invokes the need for educational stability. But the mechanical vision of stability, in terms of the mere duration of the law, proposed by the CDS, is not well placed from a concrete point of view of the stability of learning. If a law or decree is found to have harmful effects, what do we do? Do we keep the mistake for six years to satisfy the CDS' " decree stability"? It is necessary to think from learning, from schools as concrete places of learning, rather than just from superstructure. Curriculum work is nuclear work. Where was the value of stability when the CDS was consistent with the destruction of the national curriculum? And, now, are we going to legislate about study cycles without thinking about the curriculum? A work is under way, led by Dr. Guilherme de Oliveira Martins, to define a profile of skills of the student at the beginning of the 12th year, evolving from a fragmentary curriculum approach, closed in the disciplines, for a comprehensive, integrated approach, defining essential learnings, as well as social and relational skills that they predispose to learn throughout life. A work that will then allow flexible, contextualized and integrated management of the curriculum. And yet we have already made decisions on the way to that work? This CDS proposal goes wrong in time, it goes wrong in method and also it goes wrong in focus. We need to think from learning. And we need to think from the future: what school do we want for the 21st century? There are still insufficiently implemented ways of the Basic Law, for example with regard to education for citizenship, the development of student autonomy, the formation of capacity and taste for the continuous updating of knowledge. Why doesn't the CDS project say anything about this? As nothing says about adult education, permanent education and lifelong learning. Maybe because, if you said so, you wouldn't have the courage to come at the same time talk about stability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And why don't they say anything about these issues? Because they don't fit into a too narrow ideological agenda? But how, then, do you want to enter a process of converging? I insist, we need to think from the future. Which school do we want for the 21st century? It is that the 21st century school will not be just one school with another organization, for example less shared by disciplines and with more work integrated by projects. It won't just be a school with other technologies. It will also be a school with other values and another commitment to citizenship rights. It will be a school against inequalities, for equality, where, beyond the right to access, we must make more progress in the right to success, renew a battle for the right to access to success. But this does not really fit in this speedy proposal of the CDS. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as a whole, what the CDS is proposing to us is part of the resolution. in saying the CDS, they are « four major amendments », partly taking advantage of ideas in public debate, partly responding to particular interests. But that's not what we need. We need new commitments, based on an overall vision of the education system that can contribute even better to the country we want, where the Constitution of the Republic is respected and honored. To democratically build this answer we need an appropriate methodology, able to help us build progressively expanded understandings. A timetable, an agenda, an auscultation process between parties and also between social partners and associations representative of relevant actors should be defined; find methods to use available or to build knowledge, including the use of international experience to clarify issues and paths. And this is in everything different from the mode chosen by the CDS. The Socialist Party commits itself, today and here, to waiting for the current cycle to end at the National Education Council on the Basic Law of the Education System...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u54	It's January!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u55	... and, after the conclusions of this work have been drawn, it is committed to helping the Assembly of the Republic adopt a methodology that enables us to participate actively in a systematic dialogue with society, oriented to identify, build and consolidate convergences and to flatten divergences, with the sense of responsibility that education requires us. The sense of responsibility that we see has not illuminated this initiative of the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u56	Mr President, two Members have been registered for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u57	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u58	So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u59	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, I must congratulate you on this: you have a very difficult, very complicated position here. Basically, what you came here to say was: "We even agree, but we can't; we even want, but we can't. And it's important to ask why they can't, because that's what the educational community wants to know, as well as wanting to understand the priorities of the Socialist Party. The honourable Member has come here to say that changing cycles can even be good, but it is not time for taking it; that the measure relating to manuals may even be good, but it is not time to take it; that being discussing the Basics Law, which is 30 years old, may even be good, but that is not the place! Mr President, what, then, is the place to discuss it? The Assembly of the Republic, as a place of reflection in an area such as education, seems to you an inappropriate place? I confess that I do not understand, Mr. Or, on the other hand, I realize that it is a purely pretext for doing what you want, but that you cannot. He also said that the CDS took advantage of ideas and that, at the same time, it gave no room for debate, for the necessary hearings of the entities. Mr. Deputies, or something or something, you understand! We had a study group to study this subject for months. We had a hearing with the presence of the President of the National Education Council. That is why, Mr President, that is our proposal, that is our starting point. As Mrs Ana Rita Bessa said, this is not our point of arrival. Surely we can discuss it, we can debate it. And if the Socialist Party says it is more for Christmas, which is more for January, when the reflection is over, then, honourable Member, if you want consensus, if you want a serious and responsible attitude, if you want the educational community to have stability, enable this proposal. We will certainly wait to discuss the Socialist Party's proposal in the Commission. If this is not the case, Mr President, it is the case to ask this question: what is the PS afraid of? Are you afraid of the educational community? Are you afraid to debate or are you afraid of management? What puts first: the educational community and education or power and the government that want to perpetuate themselves? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u60	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Emília Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u61	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, I begin by lamenting the absence of the Minister of Education in this House when the mother law of the Portuguese education system is under discussion today. [[All right!]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u62	We, PSD, accept the challenge launched by the CDS and are available to contribute actively in this debate. And we are available because, firstly, we are a reformist party and, secondly, because we never close the door to debate in the expectation that, in such structural matters as this, convergences will overcome differences. That's what the Portuguese are expecting from us, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. The Portuguese above all hope that the public interest will not be overcome by the political tactics that have paralyzed the socialist bench. Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, as urgent as discussing the future of education is to discuss your present, a disastrous and worrying present, although Antonio Costa promised that he would return peace to schools. Anyone in schools knows and confirms that the school year started without sufficient assistants to ensure its normal functioning, which was aggravated by the reduction of 40 to 35 hours of weekly work. In Maia alone there are about a hundred operational assistants in schools; the School Center of Folgosa has 120 students and does not have a single official placed by the Ministry of Education. What does that mean, sir? It means that neither the port would be able to comply with the previous government. Those in school also know that the school year has started and continues without assistants in multi-deficiency units. The Holy Water Group has three multideficiency and zero auxiliary units — repeat, zero auxiliary — when the law determines that there are two units per unit. Where is Mr. Minister of Education, who says he loves public school and abandons children with special educational needs? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, who is in schools still knows that the school year has started with strong constraints, without money to support the payment of light, water and even toilet paper thanks to an unusual budget cut of about 20 %. And I'm speaking, ladies. Members, with due knowledge: in the Maia School Group, the cut was €21 000; in the Ermesinde School Group, in Valongo, the cut was around €30 000. The groupings will now have to cut back on the missing funds with the Ministry. Finally, and because time does not allow me to continue, I mean that whoever is in schools also knows that the school year has begun with the freezing of the value of the social action support school. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Porfirio Silva, so that the situation does not worsen, the PSD Parliamentary Group demands to know whether all the cases identified here are being lifted, and that we are sure that you also have them in mind, and as the Government supported by its party wants to solve these problems. Finally, with a warning all over the left: whoever loves public school is not the one who "fills his mouth" to make him swears of love; whoever loves public school is the one who creates the conditions to be able to sustain it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u63	To reply, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u64	Mr President, I begin by thanking Mr Nuno Magalhães and Mrs Emília Santos for the questions raised. Mrs Emília Santos, the PSD Parliamentary Group is so excited about the CDS project for the revision of the Basics Law that Mrs Emília Santos, in 15 seconds, soon forgot the Basics Law and began talking about other things. And more: Mrs Deputy is like that president of the PSD who made the proposal to close the school and then went to the street to protest against the closing of the school. That's what we're talking about! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Nuno Magalhães, the CDS has been out of Bases Law for 30 years. Now, I don't know if the CDS is trying to run a lot to get in this time or if it's trying to find an excuse to get out again, like 30 years ago! One thing is certain, Mr President: there is a candidate for the UN Secretary-General who has been very ill because he has appeared in the marathon 100 m from the target. The honourable Member will also be in trouble if he shows up for the marathon before the start has been fired! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u65	Have shame! Your sense of state is zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u66	But now, Mr... [[Protests by CDS Member Nuno Magalhães.]] As Prof. Marçal Grilo said... Well, I won't say! [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u67	Have shame! The CDS supports Eng.o António Guterres!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u68	Do you have any problems with me answering you?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u69	No, I don't. What I have is a sense of state!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u70	If you don't, let me answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u71	You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u72	Now, Mr President, I would like to suggest to the Bureau that even all Members have access to a correspondence from the Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira which has just been distributed to us, that this correspondence be distributed to all Members. It is that the government bodies themselves of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira were, in usual terms, asked to give an opinion on this draft of the CDS and we have just received the opinion sent by the Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira through its 6. the Commission, which basically says : 'In view of such a structured matter as the Basics of the Education System, we could not, in good time, analyse the diploma in a complete and consistent manner within less than five days. Therefore, the necessary conditions are not met for us to pronounce ourselves on the same subject. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is the consequence of the clumsy, shaky form of the irresponsible way in which the CDS dealt with this issue. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u73	When a responsible political force really wants to work for convergence, choose the appropriate methods, don't try blows, don't try to play, don't try to start running before the others. You fill your mouth with respect for the National Education Council and the National Education Council do not respect! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS: responsibility! Please, take responsibility! Do not make us all suffer the consequences of your private corridor with the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u74	Mr President, the Bureau will bring to the parliamentary groups the documents which you have referred to. Members will be able to make it to the Bureau. For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The Basics Law of the Education System constitutes an absolutely central framework of public policy of education in Portugal. in it is established the general framework of the educational system, if they advocate principles, if they define the normative framework of educational policies aimed at the development of all and any Portuguese citizen and country. The Basic Law is a structural law, the « mother of the system», which ensures clarity and stability in a certain sense of the future and therefore lacks a broad consensus of society. The Basic Law of the Portuguese Education System — Law No. 46 / 86 — corresponds, 12 years after 25 April, to the first commitment on possible education in democracy, which has been maintained over the last 30 years with the adequacy of three amendments: the first in 1997 and 2005, related to higher education — access, financing and process of Bologna — and the initial training of teachers; and the latter in 2009 with the establishment of the compulsory education system for children and young people between the ages of 6 and 18 and the recognition of the universality of pre-school education for children from 5 years of age. The commitment, new at the time, which remains until today, has based on the principles of universality, compulsoryness and freeness in basic education, as well as on the reorganization of the education system in preschool, school and extra-school education. The commitment to humanist principles such as the right to education and the democratization of education was already enshrined in the Constitution since 1976. Thirty years later—and on the next 14th of October, the Basic Law will be 30 years old—will it make sense to review the Basic Law of the Education System? Of course! In 1986, Portugal joined the European Economic Community, which had 12 members ; England and France announced the construction of the Channel Tunnel ; in Europe there were two Germanys ; Portugal would wait another four years to know the Internet; and, in the incident of take-off of the space shuttle Challenger, died the first civilian in a space program in the United States of America, Christia McAuliffe, a teacher who would teach her students a lesson from space. Thirty years later, we will all agree in this House that Portuguese society is different today, unfortunately incomparably closer to European development standards with regard to education. But today the world is also very different. Today, in a Europe with 28 countries, almost 27, it regulates the movement of cars without drivers ; human beings are trafficked here in the Mediterranean ; science allows to manufacture organs in laboratory or printing 3D ; it is already the things and not only the people who are connected to the Internet ; in OECD, 40 million young people, 15 % of the population between 15 and 29 years old are « neither», i.e. they do not study nor work. in Portuguese society, old people persist and new problems have arisen in education and, in particular, the evolution of science and technology has changed distances and times, accentuated the unpredictability of changes. Thirty years later, it makes all the sense to review the Basics Law. We have the responsibility to prepare generations for the future, we have the responsibility to prepare every student, every citizen, to respond to the problems of Portugal today and in the future. The legislative initiative of the CDS-PP, with the draft amendment law of the Basic Law, has the virtue of opening a debate space in Parliament today, which is of course positive, although it is not certain that it will do it in the best way to realize the desired change. Creating conditions for convergence for an education pact does not mean just knowing what is being fought for, but is open to building, together with the different social partners, the possible commitments in the sense of the common good. As we all know, the National Council for Education, whose mission is as set out in Article 1. the — and I quote — is 'to provide the participation of the various scientific, social, cultural and economic forces in seeking broad consensus on education policy', started about a year ago an extended cycle of studies and debates aimed at assessing the current and appropriateness of the Basic Law of the Education System. The last debate is scheduled for next month of November and there is a commitment by the NEC ( National Council for Education ) to submit a summary document in the first quarter of 2017. Evaluating the Basics Law is fundamental! Only a serious and extended assessment of the Basic Law will allow a fair and informed debate. The commitment of the Democratic Social Party to prepare for the future of the country presupposes an active participation in this debate of the CNE and of all those for whom we are called, to which we will not turn our backs. More than participation requires the dynamisation of an extended reflection, which is underway throughout the country, through the Social Policy Forum, and of course requires the enhancement of the commitments that are being built with the institutions and with the actors responsible for the future of the state of education in Portugal. We are all aware that in the construction of an education pact there will be areas of relative confluence and others of difficult consensus and we are also aware that an education pact cannot only be limited to the introduction of some amendments to the 1986 Basics Act ; an education pact, which may have a privileged instrument of realization in the Basics Law, should allow us to consensualize new commitments in the face of the difficult challenges already open today in Portugal. What future commitment do we want, as a society, to special education? Which inclusive school do we want or can we take? Do we want to continue to consider vocational training as a'special mode of education'? Or do we want to value vocational education as an integral part of a cycle, constituting a path with our own programmes and manuals, in a dialogue close to the territory and the economy of the region? Do we want to maintain the same commitment of 30 years ago to the Portuguese diaspora, and I mean teaching Portuguese abroad, in a foreign so-called world today, a Portuguese language that is one of the most precious strategic values we have as a nation? A true pact requires new concepts to respond to the new and demanding challenges we know, as well as those we can look forward to. in this context, the PSD will present its proposal in due course. Education is a precious source of sovereignty, both more precious and, under circumstances, the same sovereignty dissolves in other areas, from the economy to the functioning of institutions. Today, and more and more in the future, the sovereignty of communities derives much from the care they place in education. Education policies are not neutral and there is room for debate, both in terms of principles and procedures. Moreover, unlike in other countries, Portugal has little discussion on the subject of education. There are, however, objectives that can be considered to be consensual and, in view of these consensus, it is the impression that some more heated debates are really out of focus or, at least, artificially fed. After all, everyone wants a school where students can learn and teachers teach effectively and tastefully. Everyone wants qualified teachers, motivated and respected by society. Teachers deserve - in broad terms, of course, but, in addition to this factor of justice, it is undeniable that the teacher is by far the decisive element of the entire educational process. More, much more than installations, technological resources, programmes or manuals. Everyone wants a school that is dynamic, autonomous and diverse, but that is, at the same time, a clear school, without ever losing sight of the great values of democracy without ever losing sight of the great values of democracy, responsibility and civic commitment, the promotion of the critical spirit, the combination between tradition and innovation, the encouragement of creativity and the spirit of autonomy. After all, everyone wants a school of good sense and courage. In good sense, because the human race has no better support when it comes to making choices; of serene courage, when it comes to resisting certain tendencies that have been put in place: the idea that it is not worth studying as not worth any kind of effort. We cannot let this and other ideas settle, corroding the essential of the free and democratic societies in which we live. They may be nice at first sight, but, in fact, they compromise the future of our young people who will have to integrate themselves into increasingly demanding working environments. I'm done, sharing a path where I'm not alone. The words I have come to prefer are mine, but the thought about education is the summary of the thought expressed by a vast frenzy of names that, for decades, have written on this same subject: after all, another thing did not say pedagogues like Antonio Sérgio, John of God Ramos or John José Camoeses ; another thing has not yet said Milk Pinto, Veiga Simão, Roberto Carneiro or Eduardo Marçal Grilo, in an essential continuity that should make us reflect more. I want to say with this that consensus in education is not just desirable, as if it were a vague and utopian ideal. Don't! Such consensus exists. It is necessary to identify them, remember them and systematize them. These consensuses are absolutely vital for any nation and perhaps even more for a nation like Portugal. There are ideological dissidents and there are differences in the operational plane, there were, moreover, constant divergences between all these names, but all these names — or almost all — are in the plan of objectives. In addition to all adjustments made by changing circumstances, the Basic Law must translate this consensus. A basic law must constitute a framework of stability, it cannot be limited to being a beautiful building, but hollow. Quite the contrary. The Basics Law must be seen as an inspiring and policy regulator, but above all, of the concrete realities that make the lives of Portuguese people. ALEI de Bases do Sistema Educadoque chemos para Portugal has to inspire a sense of shared future! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u76	The Bureau shall record a request for clarification from Mr Luís Monteiro of the Block of Left, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Margarida Mano, I do not know if you remember, but perhaps remember that in 2010 the PSD was still in the opposition, when it presented the idea of constitutional review. at that time, the then candidate for Prime Minister, Pedro Passos Coelho, said in an interview with the Economic Journal, who was unrealistic to think that areas such as health or education could continue to be trendy free. Two years have passed, the PSD was already in the government and there was a parliamentary majority, and also the strange idea of creating tips in high school—I don't know if you remember, Mrs. Deputies! — that they then forgot so strange and so difficult that it was to defend, even with a parliamentary majority but without any social majority to defend this measure. Do you remember, Mrs. Member, the years of turbulence that Nuno Crato has created in the education, education, classes and schools in the last four years? Do you remember, Mrs. Member, when, at the beginning of the previous Parliament, we had the greatest delay in the beginning of the academic year as never had the sense of the country? We also understand that after the divorce that the PSD has made with the CDS since the last elections, the PSD even if you want to distance this difficult, let's say, now entered the CDS in the discussion of the Basic Law against which you were in 1986. What we do not understand is how she announces that the PSD will present a proposal for the revision of the Basic Law, therefore a proposal coming from the PSD, but does not recover any of the ideas she defended in 2010 until 2012. Does this Basics Law bring such famous tips to high school? Is that what we are waiting for from the PSD proposal? What is the meaning of this shared future? Is it the sense of bringing the problems that higher education is already living today? Is that the sense of responsibility and future that the PSD has for a review of the Basic Law, Mrs. Member? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u78	Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u79	Mr. President, Mr. Luís Monteiro, I don't know where the honourable Member was in 2010, but I know where I was. I was not here, I was accompanying a country that seemed to live an absolutely unreal reality. Nor do I know if you have heard what I said, but if you have heard, you will know that the proposal for a basic law, to be presented by the PSD, will always be a proposal after a consensus and a study that is being worked and that will put the wound into much more relevant aspects than those that are in the foam of the days. What do I mean? I spoke in special education, I spoke in vocational training, I spoke in teaching Portuguese. So being talking about props in the discussion of the Basics Law seems to me absolutely disappointed, especially because, if you heard what I said, you know that the principle of freeness as the principle of universality... [[At the moment, BE Luís Monteiro's colleague displayed a document.]] I don't know what you're showing. This can work on television, but I don't think it's serious! [[PSD applause.]] I also have roles here to show, but I do not think they add much to what the debate is. The principles that are constitutionally defined and the principles that are in the Basic Law of course can only be changed or can only be assumed with a broad consensus. These are the rules of democracy and I don't think anyone will want to change democracy. at least, no one will want to be antidemocratic in the PSD. So when you talk about the gratuitousness that is enshrined in basic education, 9 years ago, now 12 years ago, what I think you will be trying to do is raise some ghosts that I do not know or intend to know. The PSD will be seriously involved in the discussion of the Basics Law which, as I hope it will be clear from my intervention, is too serious and too important for the future not only of today's children and young people but especially for those of the coming years, because no one believes that a basic law — at least I have many doubts — does not last at least a decade. So I think it's too serious a debate so that we can be, at least, on my part, not going to do it — hosting soundbits for television and newspapers. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u80	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u81	Mr President, I assume it is about the progress of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u82	Mr President, I would like to request the distribution of a document. Possibly out of ignorance, Mrs Margarida Mano does not know the PSD proposals of the past regarding education, so I ask the Bureau to distribute a news from the Journal of Business dated May 20, 2010, where Passos Coelho says that health and education tend to be free of charge. I would ask the Bureau to proceed with the distribution of the document.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u83	Mr President, please deliver the document to the Bureau for distribution. For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to begin by telling Mrs Ana Rita Bessa that the draft law of the CDS on the revision of the Basic Law of the Educational System is part of a wrong assumption that contaminates the whole document: the idea that there is no consensus in education. The great consensus that exists in education in Portugal and that the CDS does not want to recognize is called public school, the only one capable of ensuring equal public education for all. And that is the great frustration of the CDS in this debate. It is not with modernity or lack of it in the Basics Law. The CDS cannot be in favour of the consensus that gave rise to it, the consensus of the public school, the consensus of the Constitution, from which the CDS was self-excluded when it voted against. The CDS talks about the future, but what it wants is to recover the debates and debates of the past, the debates on the dualization of teaching, about the false freedom of choice, about the existence of the school as a way of social selection, and that is why this proposal is a true "Troia horse". It is not the need of the pre-school that divides us, what divides us is that we know the CDS curriculum in this matter, we know what the CDS and PSD did when they were in government. They reintroduced the vocational pathways in the basics as a modern version of the separation between high school and commercial and industrial schools, and this proposal now presented here, of revision of the Basics Law, does not depart from the view that vocational education views as the fate of those who have missed school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u86	They introduced exams, rankings, curriculum goals, excessive and absurd programs made so that only a small part of the students could learn them in their entirety. They created a system that was deliberately made so that only a small group could succeed and all the others would be abandoned and left behind. They made incursions against the school of citizenship, progressive, emancipatory and critical, made incursions against the school as a space of democracy, wanted to subject teachers to the force of precariousness, students to the force of an examination and schools to the force of a place in the ranking. How can the CDS come to speak of the autonomy of schools, when what it proposes is to offer this autonomy to municipalities that want them to "buy", forgetting that a democratic school is not responsible for the guardianship of any councillor of education or of any chamber president, forgetting that teachers should not be at the mercy of the criteria for hiring each municipal chamber and of the party that has a majority in it, forgetting that the State cannot be irresponsible of the financing and the social function of education. They speak of equal opportunity and success in schools, but they introduce false freedom of choice as a defense of an education market. As if the country had not already said that not to the idea of financing private schools with public money, as if we did not all know that this freedom of choice means check-in and that the teaching check means only one thing: the end and destruction of the public school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u87	It's nothing like that. You're making it up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u88	What this means is getting the colleges to cast into the students that guarantee the best places in the rankings. The CDS knows that it has lost this debate, the discussion of association contracts, and now it wants to win in the secretary. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basics Law is not a dogma, there is no problem in modernising it, there is no problem in improving it, there is a problem, yes, there is a problem in replacing the consensus of the public school which originated by the dogma of incomes to private schools. That's a problem! And, yes, there are problems in schools, there are less teachers, there are less assistants, there is less democracy, there are less resources, there are more students in classes. But the Basics Act is not responsible for the failure of successive governments, who have decided to invest and sacrifice the public school, starting with the government that the Member and her party supported. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u89	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS does not come here seeking a consensus; what the CDS does not want, what the CDS refuses is the consensus of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u90	In fact, he said it at the time he voted against the Constitution! He said that one of the reasons why he did not approve of it was because the role of private education was only complementary to the role of public school. And in this we have to recognize the coherence of the CDS and we have even to propose that the CDS do this the next slogan of its outdoors : « CDS, 40 years ago to protect private schools! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is a good slogan, it is a great coherence, it comes from the time of the Constituent, it is a debate of the past! [[Congratulations from BE.]] No, the CDS is not here seeking consensus, the CDS is here, now in minority, to shake the flag of private schools. E, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it would be wrong for public school, it would be wrong for the country, it would be wrong for democracy if this parliamentary majority agreed to change the Basic Law of the Education System under the flag of private schools. The truth is, despite the CDS, we have public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u91	They don't see anything else! Just the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u92	Despite the CDS, we have two social pacts, called « Constitution of the Portuguese Republic » and « Basic Law of the Education System », which allow us more than 30 years of social progress, such as the one we have had in the last 40 years. These social pacts were those that the CDS refused.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u93	And what are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u94	But the CDS proposals for the present and the future are the proposals that the country has rejected 40 years ago. And it is time to stop looking at the past and the proposals of the past, to start looking at the future. The public school needs a commitment to the future,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u95	And what is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u96	...even though it's despite the CDS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u97	For an intervention you now have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Educational policies, the educational system and school have a central importance in the growth of children and young people, in building our collective future in an perspective of progress and in the development and deepening of democracy. If everyone has, according to our Constitution, the right to education and culture, it is up to the State to promote the democratization of education and the other conditions for education to contribute to overcoming economic, social and cultural inequalities. If « Rome and Pavia were not made one day», also the Basic Law of the Educational System was not. It was months of work, dozens of meetings throughout the country, with the involvement of the educational community — parents, students, teachers and workers — and the participation of local authorities, a process of broad debate which aimed to build structural legislation for education in our country, in order to respond to constitutionally consecrated rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u99	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u100	This is the case, which the CDS intends to erase with the proposal which is presented to us today, the pretext of a supposed necessary updating of the law, and which is intended to introduce, within the incredible seven-day period, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a review that allows some of its fundamental principles to be changed to impose its disastrous political practice. The demagogic exercise that they do, by invoking the need to establish the stability of educational policies, in order to change a stable law from break to break, denounces its true objective: - it is to guarantee to private groups another wide field for the development of their business, giving more a machadada in public school, in order to privatize them. Defending stability in education would be, first of all, starting for a balance sheet process, checking what is to be complied with in the Basic Law of the Education System and fighting for what is missing to be realized. But that's not the CDS interest. It's never been! And it has never been, since the day you voted against this law, since the day you voted against the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u101	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u102	In fact, where was the word'stability' in the dictionary of the previous government, PSD and CDS? Were you in the classes blowing up the seams and teachers hired for more than 15 years, like at the High School of Appeal? Oh, my God! Or in the absence of hiring hundreds of psychologists, special education technicians, special education teachers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u103	Now it's all settled!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u104	Or in the lives of children who have been deprived of special education? Oh, my God! Was that where I was? And what about the stability of the 25 000 teachers hired, year by year from suitcase to back, leaving children, family, house and life behind? Or the schools where thousands of employees were missing? Or the unacceptable use of precariousness and employment-inclusion contracts to meet the permanent needs of schools? The neoliberal orientation of the PSD Government / CDS, whose governance the Mrs. Members of these parties don't like to remember, because they know that they were moments of bad memory for the workers and for the Portuguese people, led to the increasing deresponsibility of the state in education and, more importantly, led to the expansion of the private sector, to the detriment of public, democratic and quality schools. The decentralisation they advocate, in a country seized by asymmetries and with the difficulties that the previous government has so deeply deepened in public school, is only to catch up for another process of privatization, throwing public schools into private management, questioning the universality of the right to education. The CDS is also invoking the need for consecration into the law of a supposed 'freedom of choice'! Is that what you're talking about? It's not freedom of choice, it's a fallacy! What the CDS defends and intends to impose is the primacy of the private, drawing into the law what is its conception of public school network: a network in which the private, whether of profit, cooperative or so-called solidarity sector, have « knife and cheese in hand ». And, of course, with the State to directly finance what is of some, cutting off in the financing of what is of all — our public, universal and democratic school. What is being discussed today are measures that want to attack the role of public school as an area of inclusion, of overcoming economic and social inequalities, of individual and collective emancipation, of integral formation of the individual, of growth, of democracy, making it an instrument that eternally replicates existing inequalities. The CDS proposal — see there! — removes the democratization of general principles of the law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u105	No, don't retreat!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u106	...and recently they didn't even want to answer why, [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] No, the general principles are no longer there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u107	He is, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u108	As I was saying, the CDS proposal removes the democratization of the general principles of the law and accentuates asymmetries between public and private, clearly insisting on a logic of rankings, competition and dispute between schools, not allowing the homogeneous development of the teaching system, nor so little positive pedagogical practices. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: How can this initiative even be taken seriously if it does not try to respond, any answer, to the numerous current problems with which the public school effectively faces? Oh, my God! The CFP defends public investment as an unequivocal priority, with the strengthening of the material and human conditions of public schools,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u110	... with the extension of the public school network, fulfilling the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the Basic Law of the Education System. For the CFP, the State should ensure access to education and the instrument to do so is the universal public school of quality and free of charge in all compulsory education, regardless of the economic and social conditions of each. Here we are, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to combat all attacks on public school, come from where they come, see the "sheep skin" they wear. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u111	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: unlike the previous government, PSD / CDS, which applied to education a vision adjusted to the low-wage impoverishment strategy and the devaluation of qualifications, the PS is fully mobilized in the bet on a public school of quality and on the success of all students. For the Socialist Party, education plays a central role in promoting social justice and equal opportunities, and this is also an inducing factor in the country's economic growth and sustainability. The stability to which the CDS refers in its initiative is undoubtedly a fundamental principle, but we have achieved it only through processes of analysis, debate and commitments that allow us to define common and shared purposes, to be poured out, in particular, in the Basic Law, and this stability has been very absent in the past four years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u113	Since the beginning of this legislature we have been able to listen to students, parents, educators, teachers and unions, to be on the ground to then act, because knowledge always precedes political action, who wants to be responsible, involved and qualified. Finally, all that the CDS has not done, by presenting an initiative that moves on the pillar of the education system and, as such, should be preceded by a broad consensus, and should mirror a rethink of education for the coming years. This re-thinking, this strategy, this aeration or modernity is not seen. This agenda and initiative are, in fact, emerging from various processes currently under way, both at the level of the National Council of Education, both with intergovernmental teams and representative associations, particularly in the field of decentralization of competences in education. It was a responsible and mature process, what is required? No, no, no. At all, responsibility didn't go through there. After all, what does the CDS want? Convergence and wider discussion or, once again, anticipate the PSD, also in this area? Education does not deserve conjuncural positions or tactical anticipations, rather, deserves all our collective effort, an agenda, auscultation of the base for the top and sustained reflection. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u114	in fact, some of the changes operated rigidize the system, it is as a mere decree a law that must be framed and confused - principles with management standards and with policy options measures that the previous PSD/CDS governments have implemented with enormous oversale. In turn, the PS, with the support of the left parties, has been restoring serenity and democratic breathing in the educational system. It was like this with the opening of the school year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u115	Is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u116	... so it was with the universalization of the pre-school, which, of course, materialized in the opening of 100 new rooms,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u117	It's a little out of reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u118	... in a framework of strong cooperation with the social and solidarity sector. This will also be the first year of implementation of the Curriculum Guidelines for Pre-School Education, and it is certain that, for the PS, rethinking preschool education requires thinking about education from the beginning of 0 years, since birth. It is with immense hope that we will verify the National School Success Promotion Program, based on plans to combat educational failure and which already involves 800 schools, as well as basic education tutorials, which will strengthen individualized monitoring mechanisms for students with greater difficulties and which will cover about 25,000 students. For the first time in our history, Mr. Members and Members of Parliament were assigned school manuals to 80 000 students enrolled in 1. the year of basic, public and private education, which, with the freezing of the price of manuals, will represent a very significant reduction for family expenses. In this new school year, there is also a new model for evaluation in basic education, which takes the evidence as tools for improving learning and not as processes that promote exclusion. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to education, our inspiration and stability will always be the Constitution of the Republic. Therefore, we have fulfilled it, with the measures already taken to enhance the public network, in its hardware and software, focused on the quality of teaching and learning, in a universal coverage network whose rationality does not allow redundancy or unjustified funding. There will be no setbacks in this area, no escapes for the privatization of teaching, anchored in free choices and new basic laws with « lamb skin ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u119	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u120	In the field of education, students and their learning and integral training will always be the focus of our concerns. So we want to listen to them, value their non-curricular activities, stimulate their participation in participatory budgets, wake them up for knowledge, innovation, new learning models, so that they enjoy school and being at school again, since they have gone away from it, as well as alert the 2015 State Education Report. With regard to education, teachers, parents and non-teaching staff can and should be valued and therefore we also want to hear them about the changes to be made to the Basic Law, in their time, because the dimension and nature of this Basic Law of the Educational System so requires. To conclude, we will respond with a work plan supported in the new guidelines for the curriculum, listening to the basis for the top structure and, above all, with a high sense of responsibility and seeking convergence and consensus, aiming at the construction of an educational system and a school for the 21st century, because responsibility, modernity, education and freedom are always going through here! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u121	Also for an intervention, Mr Amadeu Soares Albergaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already stated that we consider it appropriate to review and propose amendments to this structural law of the education and training system, adjusting it to the new realities and challenges of the public education service. It is consensual that our country has been able, in the last 30 years, to overcome accumulated qualifications deficits. We continually improved, and much, in the main international qualitative indicators, and this was good for Portugal. But it is also consensual that much progress will be made, that much will be done and that much will be discussed in order to achieve a quality education system, adjusted not only to the current reality but also to those who are expected to be the main development challenges of the country. We want an educational system that can enable each Portuguese to achieve his or her personal happiness. We want an educational system that, starting in preschool, guarantees good and solid education in basic and secondary education, strengthening higher education and research. We want a system capable of promoting the social and economic development of Portugal. Mr President, to revisit the Basics Law is also to look at our democratic and free society, its functioning, its experience and its challenges in a globalised world. What society do we want for our children and grandchildren? How can we improve and ensure fair equality of opportunity? How can we strengthen the freedom to learn and teach? How can we promote the quality of education and training? How can we better prepare the education system to respond not only to the needs of the present but above all to the needs of the future? What vision do we have for the teaching and development of Portugal? This is not, nor can it be, a view imposed by some, by minorities or by the majority of occasion, by interests of corporations or by a vision clouded by ideological prejudices. It must be a shared vision by all, which promotes the true equality of opportunities, which expands the freedom of students in the development of their life projects, which strengthens higher and advanced training, which stimulates research, which creates conditions for a growing involvement of civil society, which facilitates the transfer of knowledge to the productive fabric and which, with this, promotes the progress of our country. This means that any revision of the Basic Law must be based on a safe, informed and involved debate. This reflection cannot be the subject of one-off or contextual political-party agendas, but rather a very broad social and political consensus which guarantees the perenniality, stability and predictability of the Portuguese educational system. This is a reflection that has been, and is being, developed by the National Council of Education. We consider it prudent to wait for this invaluable contribution. But it is also a weighting that is being promoted by the Social Democratic Party, within the framework of its social policy forum, and that will continue with a work of great proximity to those which, day by day, give expression to this structuring law. Having done this participated and open to all, the PSD will not fail to present its draft revision of the Basic Law, but there are lines that we do not exceed and we will do everything to ensure that they are not exceeded. And the current context makes us particularly anxious. The model of society we stand for is not a statized, egalitarian, centralized society that distrusts civil society, people and private initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u124	...is, on the contrary, a model of society that promotes equity, social justice, which believes in people and their institutions. And this translates into a public education system seen as a public service, which has as its central focus the student and quality in education and in the education provided, which guarantees quality in education for all, which is affixed to the autonomy of educational projects, which promotes the relationship with the extended educational community, which expands the flexibility and freedom to teach more and more to learn better, that assumes the decentralization of competences. We want an increasingly modern and innovative public education system, capable of more effectively empowering our students to lead the digital revolution they are witnessing. At the age of 30, the Bases Law deserves to be reviewed. The PSD will contribute actively to this debate. We understand this bill as a positive contribution. We have points that approach us and points that deserve more reflection, but this is a debate that we will have and for which we call all the parties with parliamentary seats. The PSD, as a reformist party that is, will not fail to contribute to the construction of an educational system, from preschool to university, from and to the future. That's what the Portuguese aspire to, that's our duty and purpose. That's what we're gonna do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u125	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I recall that we shall proceed to a vote at the end of this debate. For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The marking of this debate only confirmed what the CFP was saying. In fact, it is up to the public education network to guarantee the coverage of establishments; if it were not for the CDS, it would not have been necessary to bring in a proposal to introduce the private sector, as if it were on the public network, and would like to treat everything equally, in order to benefit and finance private schools. They brought here concerns about students and families. But is the CDS really worried about students and families? When he was in the government he only made life difficult for them, offering them more precariousness, deregulation of working hours, conditions and rights. They made it difficult for families to accompany their children in school. He wanted the CDS to transfer to the Basic Law of the Educational System his political and ideological option. It placed in the Basics Law of the Education System because of the problems of public school and education, but the real problem is not only in breach of and violation of the Basics Law itself but in its political practice, because when they were government, they did everything to destroy, disqualify the public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u127	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u128	I will finish, Mr. President. The option of the CDS is very clear: the public school is intended for the poorest, the excluded, the children of the workers, while safeguarding a quality school for the elite of Portuguese society.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u129	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u130	We completely reject this perspective, this vision, Mr President, and we will not compact with this ambush, because the quality public school is what is for everyone: universal, free and democratic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u131	For an intervention, Mrs Odete João has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After 30 years of the approval of the Basic Law of the Education System, it is time to review the path that has been made and also to remember and praise the men and women who, in 1986, contributed to their elaboration and approval. From the outset, we stress the longevity and vitality of this important diploma, with regard to the organization of the education system and its structure, which continues to be a reference for teachers, families, autarchs and other social partners. Longevity and vitality should be valued. The legal constancy of this law in time results from the fact that, in its origin, it has been a thorough technical work of preparation, but above all, a political agreement of principle involving almost all parties with parliamentary seats. in this context, the initiative that the CDS brings to this House — the amendment of the Basic Law — without being based on appropriate studies and foundations, is extemporaneous and can only be justified by the intention of seeking to impose a restrictive view of the education system itself. over the years, it has always been privileged, in the appreciation of the Basic Law of the Educational System, the consensus and the construction of extended majority instead of an immediate and conjunctural political gain dictated by a tacticalism that depletes itself. Since the adoption of the Basic Law in 1986, by a large majority that the CDS has not been part of, three amendments have been made, all under the aegis of the Socialist Party, in 1997, in 2005 and 2009, in particular to the degrees taught in the political institutes, the organization of degrees and diplomas in higher education, welcoming the adequacy of the European Bologna process, the extension of compulsory schooling for 12 years and the universalization of preschool from five years. on the way was the amendment to the Basic Law in 2003, proposed by the Government of then, PSD / CDS, and which was vetoed by Mr. President of the Republic, since the necessary consensus was not met, in addition to having doubts on the constitutionality of some norms. This PSD / CDS attack on the principles of the Basic Law of the Educational System continued in the previous government, first, with the early referral of students to vocational pathways, searching their paths and then establishing the exams as the sole criterion of student series,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u133	... both were an integral part of a model of social segregation for our young people and now this initiative wants to replicate. Also the changes in the curriculum, implemented by the previous government, have made its structure incoherent, have diminished some areas of the curriculum, such as the Expressions, with damage to the overall training of students. These changes contradicted the principles of the Basic Law and were the subject of widespread criticisms by scientific and professional associations and society in general. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u134	The de-investment made in public school, perpetrated by the PSD/CDS government, had several dimensions, from the outset, in association contracts established with private and cooperative education, when there were public schools capable of receiving students, in addition to stopping the re-qualification works of secondary schools. The PSD/CDS government dismantled adult education and training. There have never been so few training opportunities, when it is known that about 55% of citizens between the ages of 25 and 64 do not have full secondary education and in a country where insufficiency in qualification represents a structural obstacle to their development. In the face of this collective drama, the previous government's action was a stupendous backwardness and a gross failure, and now nothing says! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party is determined to put the public school on the path from which it should never have left and not leave any student behind, increasing the level of qualifications of all citizens. The way forward will be through in-depth discussions and broad consensus so as to respond to the plans and objectives that the future requires of us. We know that laws are not static. We recognize that economic, social and cultural transformations compete for the need to anticipate in the educational system the changes we witnessed in the world around us. however, the improvement to be introduced in the legal framework of the educational system, to occur, has to result from broad political commitments and consensus that must be based on studies and evaluations, always from a strategic perspective the development of the qualifications of Portuguese and the country. It is in this context that we should look forward to the results of ongoing studies and reflections, such as those promoted by the National Council of Education, through the cycle of conferences that started with specialists, or the working group set up by the Ministry of Education on the profile of competences of students out of secondary school, regardless of whether other initiatives are taken to deepen the debate and build joint solutions. Therefore, the way and the way the CDS intends to change the Basics Law denies the principles of stability and the confidence they proclaim. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u135	The CDS initiative is therefore also time-consuming and insists that the country has already proved that it does not want to continue its journey. A path that is incapable of responding to the challenges of the present, not contributing to responding to the shortcomings and insufficiency of our educational system, respecting the principle of equal opportunities and the future of all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u136	For the last intervention of this debate, Mrs Cristas, Member of the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: this afternoon we heard an exercise in debate in this House that I would say that we would not have a history on the CDS side of these matters of bringing topics to power agendas and listening to the reaction of the parties in this House would be even surprising. We don't give up, we insist. We brought the themes of birth and support to the family, structural, essential themes and I would say that they had everything to be consensual in this House ; we brought the theme of protection to the elderly and active ageing, which is still cruising in committee, so far without any progress; we brought a minimum proposal of consensus on social security, and for all these issues the answer of this House was that the CDS does not have legitimacy to discuss them, it cannot even think of bringing them to this House, should not bring these matters here. And in all these cases we were shot with the past. Well, I wanted to tell you that, in these cases, and in this topic of education, we have eyes in the future, only in the future, and we do not decline our right and duty, as Members and as a parliamentary group, to work for Portugal, their families, their students and their teachers. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I wanted to tell you that outside people will certainly not understand. What we have brought to this Parliament today was a proposal for a debate, an open debate, with certainty with the participation of all, a debate which has hosted what is being done out there in various forums, in particular by the National Education Council, and the conclusions that are already known and certainly the conviction that a whole parliamentary year — and perhaps not one — is not enough to debate, deepen and reach conclusions on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we, in the CDS, who are not admitted, and we will never admit, is that we want to be limited in our freedom of proposal and timetable, because we think this is the time to start this debate. If others think that this is another time, because we will certainly be here at that time, we will be here with our proposals that have already been put forward and with so many others that we will have the opportunity to work there. Does it bother some that the CDS works, that it works a lot? What's fast? I'm sorry, that's how we do it. We do well, we do very well, we look for the right times and we find that the beginning of the school year and the commemoration of the 30 years of the Basic Law of the Educational System would be the right time not to exclude anyone but to make our contribution, and the contribution to this debate, for those who exercise the mandate given by the people, the representative mandate of the people, is done in this House, is done in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u138	They work for the efemeride!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u139	I am sorry, because today what I saw from all the benches, almost without exception, was a disgrace to Parliament itself, saying « it is necessary for others to discuss ». Well, this is our House, this is the House of Democracy, this is the House of all Portuguese and this is where we have to present our proposals and discuss them, and if we have them ready, because we bring them in. If you have any ideas, let them bring them! [[CDS-PP applause.]] If you don't have them now, we wait, we have no problem. But I think no one out there understands that this House does not want to work in order, for example, to give stability to education policies. Who, in this House, is against which no rules are changed for six years, rules in the programmes, rules in the evaluations, rules in relation to the manuals themselves and the organization of cycles?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u140	Why didn't they do that? What an inconsistency!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u141	I want to believe there's no one. Perhaps, precisely because they were busy explaining how there were so many changes, perhaps they should be more sensitive to stability. I must say that my CDS colleagues and I go from north to south of the country, we talk to schools, to directors, teachers, students and parents and all of us hear the same thing: 'Stability, please give us stability, give us peace in schools'. And that is exactly what we want to propose from here to the future, stability. This is neither in favour nor against any government, which is very clear. If you wanted to, we would be available to crystallize this moment. Is that how you think you're okay? For we crystallize, but for six years nothing is changed, it is evaluated, it is evaluated calmly, it is evaluated with depth and firmness and then it is adjusted and changed. I am sorry that there is no opening at this time. But I realized that there is only that, at this moment, there is tactics. [[PCP protests.]] I don't want to believe you and the ladies. Members have no ideas on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u142	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u143	In fact, the PSD has already referred to this in a very clear way. They were the only ones who said they would have a moment to submit their proposals. Well, ours are here and we will certainly be here to consult, to dialogue, to confront them with those of all parliamentary groups. Get used to it. Can we be uncomfortable? For we will be, but we will not decline our right and our duty to bring to this House, always, matters that we believe are important for the day-to-day Portuguese, important to generate consensus, important to give stability. That was the case in education, so it was in other matters and we will continue to bring them. Who's wrong with this photograph, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, it's who doesn't want to argue, who doesn't want to talk. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u144	We have thus reached the end of this debate, and this is the time for us to vote on the underlying legislative initiative. We are going to check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic framework records 195 presences, to which the honourable Members add. Deputies Amadeu Soares Alberaria, Fernando Virgílio Macedo and José Pedro Aguiar Branco, from PSD, and Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carlos Pereira and Fernando Anastácio, from PS, which makes 201 Members, so we have quorum. Let us then, in general, vote on Bill No. 306 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the Basic Law of the Education System ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] This is how this item on our agenda is concluded. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as established by agreement between the Bureau and the various parliamentary groups, it is time for us to put vote No 136/ XIII to the consideration of the plenary ( 2 ). ( a ) — Welcoming the indication to the General Assembly, by the Security Council, of Antonio Guterres for the post of Secretary-General of the United Nations ( HR President, PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PCP, BE, The Greens and PAN ). I'll start reading the vote: « The Security Council of the United Nations ( UN ) today approved the name of António Guterres, by acclamation, as Secretary-General of the United Nations, to indicate to the General Assembly. This decision of the UN Security Council represents the culmination of an innovative and long-term process in the United Nations, with successive hearings, debates and votes, which have always been overcome with enormous brightness and success by Antonio Guterres, giving the world the testimony of the meaning that the force of a new leadership anchored in fidelity to the United Nations Charter and its principles and values, including peace, cooperation and respect for equality between sovereign and independent States. António Guterres' candidacy went beyond the most important of the stages for which his abilities and experience were determined, tested during a career in the service of people and the public case, particularly during the 10 years in which he led the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. due to its human, political and intellectual qualities, António Guterres is, without doubt, a personality particularly prepared to face the complexity of the problems of the present world and were its merits that have proved capable of mobilizing, in the country, the commitment of the sovereign bodies, the effort of diplomacy, the support of the whole political forces and of the Portuguese society, making its candidacy, to all titles, an exemplary candidacy. António Guterres, as future UN Secretary-General, is a guarantee in favour of an international order with fewer conflicts, with adequate support for the needs of the people in the face of humanitarian crises and with effective and consequent work for security and peace between peoples and nations. There is a nation that is filled with pride and emotion, first with the Security Council press conference, and then with the indication, by acclamation, made to the General Assembly. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, warmly welcomes the indication of António Guterres to the General Assembly for the post of Secretary-General of the United Nations today, 6 October, by the Security Council, and looks forward to the confirmation of his election by the UN General Assembly. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this congratulation vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and acclamation, registering the absence of the NAP.]] There is still a period of intervention on the subject of the vote that has just been adopted. First of all, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PSD parliamentary board, I would like to congratulate Eng.António Guterres on this indication. I believe that it is a cause of joy and pride for all Portuguese people and, to this extent, Parliament, as a forum representing the popular will of the Portuguese people, cannot fail to associate at this time and address, in the first line, its own words of congratulations. As the vote points out, it is the culmination of a demanding process, which was marked by the competence with which Eng.António Guterres was trailing it and which was adding the support that allows this indication today. I would also like, on behalf of the PSD, to enhance the proficiency of our entire diplomatic structure, which had here another demonstration of the excellence of its work and of the result, which is also due to it, that we can achieve. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a word also to record the truly national spirit that involved the sovereignty bodies; namely, Mr President of the Republic and the Government, the political parties, personalities and institutions of our community, who have cooperated in search of what I am convinced, is also the national interest. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Eng.António Guterres has already highlighted qualities in order to be able to lead a new agenda in the most relevant meeting forum of peoples and nations in the world. Through it, Portugal will continue to be an active part of an agenda for peace, cooperation and solidarity among nations; an agenda focused on economic and social development, but always directed towards the recognition and safeguarding of human rights; an agenda attentive to regional tensions and conflicts, geopolitical balances, but also threats of radicalist positions if — and sometimes even — ideological and civilizational fanaticisms; an agenda attentive to new migratory flows and the scourge that affects many people today who are fleeing from war and death, precisely in a desperate way, to which no nation or international organization may remain indifferent; and an agenda also active and proactive in the preservation of our planet, the environment, with regard to climate change, all that is medium and long-term concerns. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that all these challenges are very demanding, but we have great confidence that, through this our citizenship, Portugal will, as at other times in our history, be at the forefront of what is a global concern about the well-being of human beings. Let us once again be part of the future, be part of the approach of peoples and cultures, be part of the achievement of peace, of the preservation of human rights, in solidarity, so that everyone can have access to a peaceful and happy life. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we live another chapter of the ecumenical vocation of our people, of our dear Portugal. It is another way of expressing what, even recently, in the possession of His Excellency Mr. President of the Republic, here was evidenced, with a great force of this nation which is Portugal. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u146	For an intervention, you have the floor, representing the PS, Mr Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Antonio Guterres will be the new Secretary-General of the United Nations. They look forward to enormously complex tasks in the fields of the recovery of the institution's credibility in the eyes of the world, but above all to regulation and good influence in the resolution of numerous expectations, which keep conflicts, intolerances, dysfunctions and inequalities incompatible with human dignity in the most various parts of the globe. Your election is a great joy for all of us. For the PS, of course, for reasons of natural affiliation, but for all Portuguese irrespective of their condition and their party preferences. It is a victory of self merit, of civic humility and of a life at the service of people. a committed, persistent and courageous civic life; a renewed desire to help build; a competence tested at the most various levels and scenarios; an indomitable inconformism; an indestructible humanitarian sense; a determination that never escaped dialogue and moderation; a high awareness of the value of an active diplomatic action at the service of global and regional consultation. His new status as leader of the nations is a cause for joy for an institution such as the Assembly of the Republic, which he served, precisely here, among other ways, as President of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, in which, then, I also had the honour to serve. And we also congratulate the Government and Portuguese diplomacy. It is great news for Portugal and, so we hope, good news for the world, a world that so much needs those who serve it with reason and heart. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u148	You have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u149	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Antonio Guterres was hailed as the new UN Secretary-General and indicated by his Security Council. It is a cause of joy for all of us and for which we congratulate him. It is, first of all, the victory of a clean and transparent diplomatic process, which has succeeded in winning the back-up games, some of which even came from the heart of Europe. It is a victory that revives the UN itself, showing that its decisions are not always determined by technocracy, political calculus or international alignments, but it is also the victory of the priorities on international policy that Antonio Guterres has adopted as UN High Commissioner for Refugees, and we hope that they will continue to be their main challenge now, as Secretary-General of the United Nations. in an increasingly complicated world, the UN has objectively lost influence capacity and thus has become more fragile the defense of international law in the peaceful solution of conflicts and in the defence of human rights. in a reality which often exceeds the UN itself, it is necessary to restore the agenda of defending these principles and rights in the concerns of nations. That is what we consider to be demanding of Antonio Guterres and that we trust he will achieve. On behalf of the parliamentary bench of the Left Block, we wish the greatest happiness to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, and we hope that the hope in it deposited will materialize in a new centrality of peace and human rights in the world. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u150	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP bench, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The election, by acclamation, of Eng.António Guterres for UN Secretary-General honours Portugal and will surely honor the United Nations. It is a victory, first of all, of Antonio Guterres, of his qualities, of his personality, of his journey, but it is also a victory of transparency in the method of choosing Eng.António Guterres and the new Secretary-General of the United Nations. in this sense, it is also a victory of the United Nations itself, but also enhances the capacity of Portuguese diplomacy and the irreprehensible stance it had since the beginning of the process. It will certainly be a demanding mandate, in an increasingly complex world with increasingly difficult challenges: from humanitarian crises and refugees — well-known, moreover, from the new Secretary-General of the United Nations — to global instability, to humanitarian crises, to war and to social and economic problems. And also, why not, taking advantage of this transparency in the form of designation, reforming the UN itself, making it more open and closer to all of us, less bureaucratic and more decisive? We believe that António Guterres, for his personal qualities and for his journey, will certainly be up to date. The CDS has always, and without reservation, supported this candidacy in what was a national effort and the capacity of various sovereign bodies and entities to place national interest above all differences. So we congratulate Antonio Guterres on his election and wish him the greatest happiness. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u152	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the PCP bench, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u153	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: With this vote of congratulation, the Assembly of the Republic signs the indication of António Guterres as Secretary-General of the United Nations by the Security Council, meaning, as the vote itself indicates, that the most important stages for his election as Secretary-General of the United Nations have been exceeded. So we want to greet, first, Eng.António Guterres. This indication concludes a process of evaluation of several applications, including António Guterres from the outset, which is inseparable from his capacity and experience, and also remains associated with the exercise of the responsibilities he has assumed as the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, particularly at a time when the international situation, especially as a result of the escalation of military conflicts, of war, has been marked dramatically by the worsening of the refugee tragedy. With this congratulating vote, the Assembly of the Republic points out this indication of António Guterres for an important position of international diplomacy, while stressing the requirements of this position, not only as regards the defence and respect for international law as enshrined in the principles and values transposing to the Charter of the United Nations, but also as regards the need for action to promote peace, dialogue and cooperation between peoples and States, economic and social development, respect for the rights of peoples and for the sovereignty and independence of States. On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, we therefore also want to leave to Eng.António Guterres our hopes for success in the demanding mission ahead. [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u154	For an intervention, you have the floor, on behalf of the Greens bench, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, I would also like to welcome the election of Antonio Guterres to the post of Secretary-General of the United Nations. I would like to stress the fact that — it has already been mentioned by other banks — that we have been before a long election process always overdue at each stage by António Guterres. I would also like to point out that, in addition to its other recognised capacities and already exposed by other benches, its significant experience as the UN High Commissioner for Refugees has certainly given you a very real knowledge of the problems, as he himself has had to point out — hunger, poverty, poverty, fear, discrimination, the war to which so many human beings are subject and that they are victims, how often as if a perpetual penalty were being treated. The functions you have performed for 10 years have certainly given you a baggage for a consequent intervention, now at another level, in the United Nations. The wish is that António Guterres may be the face of a United Nations Organization faithful to the principles of the United Nations Charter, for peace, for cooperation among peoples, for respect and equality of sovereign states, for the right to self-determination of peoples and also with a deep awareness that we are facing new challenges today, such as climate change or the brutal breakdown of biodiversity on our planet, which destabilize the planet and that this so much need for all human beings and for the development we want to provide in it. Mr. President, the Green Party welcomes and wishes Antonio Guterres the greatest success as Secretary-General of the United Nations. [[Applause from The Greens, the PS and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u156	Having the Government associated with this vote which has just been voted on by the House, Mr President-in-Office for Parliamentary Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you should imagine, it was with great satisfaction and pride that the Government received the news of the confirmation of the appointment of Antonio Guterres as Secretary-General of the United Nations. The reasons for this victory are several, but the first, far from any other, were, and are, the indisputable and absolutely consensual qualities of Antonio Guterres: his vast political experience, particularly in the field of international politics and relations, his vast knowledge of international institutions, his long career of dedication to the public cause, his genuine humanism that distinguishes him from so many men who dedicate themselves to political life. As Mr President of the Republic has said so well today, he has won the best. And when it is so, it is not only good for Antonio Guterres, it is also good for the United Nations. The United Nations has been able to choose the best, and this is even the greatest victory in all this process. We want to highlight the role of Portugal as a bridge builder. This is a role that is internationally recognized and which has been recognized once again. The candidacy of Antonio Guterres quickly became a global candidacy of Africa, Europe, Asia, the Americas. This was, from the very beginning, a candidacy of all nations, of all the peoples of the world. We could not fail to value the national unit around this candidacy and which, of course, was also important for this victory. All the sovereign bodies—and have already been mentioned here—as the Government of the Republic, the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic, all political forces and all political parties unanimously embraced this candidacy. The innovative method that was followed in this election and which makes the election of António Guterres even more responsible is also a distinguishing factor: it is the first time that the Secretary-General of the United Nations is elected through a transparent and serious process like this. And I also refer to the serene campaign of Antonio Guterres himself. It was a campaign made by the positive, which should serve as a teaching not only to those who are in international politics but to all of us, valuing the opponents, in fact, whose merits only strengthened the value of the election of Antonio Guterres. This is, above all, and above all, a victory of António Guterres, a personal victory, but Portugal and the Portuguese also feel it as theirs. [[P.S., P.P.P. and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-06.u158	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for us to close one of the happiest, surely, circumstances in our Parliament. It is my duty now to announce the agenda by tomorrow. The plenary meeting will start at 10 a.m. and the agenda includes the debate on appeal No 7 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — On disability policies ( BE) and motion for a resolution No 19 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Approves the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, signed in Tegucigalpa on 29 June 2012, to which no time is allocated for discussion. Finally, there will be a vote on the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 43 minutes.]]
