ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities opening the galleries. If there's no file to read, we're going straight into the agenda. The first point is a thematic debate required by the PS on economy and business. To open the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: for the first time, in many years, the country is building a national strategy for industrialization and doing so by placing Portugal in the front of the new industrial revolution, a revolution that combines the conventional industry with the most advanced advances in digital technology and the Internet, ensuring a reduction of costs that leverage productivity and will make Portugal a more competitive country. for the first time, in many years, Portugal presents a true industrial policy and at the same time places itself on an indispensable path to the substitution of imports. For a long time, nothing of this has been seen, and this is indeed the great challenge of Portugal to be prepared to overcome, without any surprises, the surprises of the external settings that always hinder economic objectives for an open and small country, as is the case with Portugal. But you don't do all of this by putting the wagon in front of the woods. In other words, a competitive economy is not built with a growing GDP, with extraordinary contributions from exports, without building the industrial technical building that integrates productivity gains to strengthen our competitiveness. That's the way we're going. That is what the Ministry of Economics is building against winds and tides, with the certainty that we will hardly have a second chance. Many years ago it was relatively irrelevant to have a competitive industry or not: the sliding devaluations, known as crawling Peg, did their role and offered the country an artificial competitiveness. This time has been long gone, and today, without production content adapted to times and contexts, we can hardly dare to speak in an export bet. It is therefore necessary to strengthen industry in order to ensure systematic and permanent gains in exports. This is the only basis for the success of our economy: to produce much, to produce well, to produce what the global market needs, to produce efficiently and to make our industry competitive enough to win external markets and to change the pattern of economic growth, which has always been driven by domestic demand. That is, indeed, to bet on the marketable goods. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Industry 4.0 strategy is much more than a brand, it is a design that will include the country in the lot of better-prepared countries for the future. But it does not run out, it also covers the reform of the business environment, introducing the company's friendly measures and investment facilitators, such as the business capitalisation programme or, then, the powerful way in which structural funds are coming to our companies, where in just two months more than 3000 million investment has been approved, benefiting about 3,500 companies. More: the simplification and removal of administrative barriers to companies will place Portugal on the path of the vanguard of good practices, eliminating the suffering of companies and entrepreneurs who have spent the last few years on doing business. This is the Simple for the economy that, without complexes, chooses the ease, without facilitating, obviously, the brand of the Portuguese business environment. It is true that economic analysis shows that the sustainability of economic growth and the balance of accounts requires deep and concerted attention to the external market. But it is also easy to see that economic recovery does not happen without the support of the internal market, in particular consumption and investment. If this is exactly so for the generality of countries, it is absolutely decisive and uncompromising for a country like Portugal, which still has a small contribution in exports in GDP, far from 50 %, and which needs the internal market to maintain acceptable levels of economic growth for the daily lives of its people and their needs. Not to understand this is to forget people's desires, to ignore the profile of our companies, to ignore the pattern of our economy and, for all these reasons, to insist on a necessarily disastrous path to the country. We want, as we want the right, an exporting country, a competitive country, a sustainable country. But the model of the last four years has not ensured any of these objectives and even compromised the national economic base because it brutally strangled the internal market... [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] ... destroying good companies at the top of the altar of an effusive and incomprehensible obsession with reducing income and severe impoverishment of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the facts do not mislead: between 2010 and 2015, the increase in GDP occurred only when the increase in domestic demand occurred. I will repeat: between 2010 and 2015, the increase in GDP occurred only when there was an increase in domestic demand. In 2010 GDP grew 1, 9 % and domestic demand also grew 1, 9 %. In 2014 GDP grew 0, 9 % and domestic demand grew 2 % and GDP finally grew 1, 4 % in 2015 with domestic demand rising 1, 9 %. in these years external demand has always been negative. It was only in the years when GDP fell, i.e. in 2011, in 2012 and 2013, that external demand was positive. in fact, in the past, whenever the accounts with the outside were positive, the country was in recession, because the internal search fell peak. This has been the case for the last four years, as I have already demonstrated, and so has it for the last three decades. So what we are proposing to do is not little, it is not easy, but it is the ambition needed to restore the country on the path of the main European economies. So we have another way, a more complex, more difficult course, but much more consistent and capable of ensuring two things, apparently inconclusive in Portugal: economic growth with the increase in net exports. in the Portuguese economic context and in a medium-term analysis, this is only possible without disregarding the weight, importance and role of the internal market. Therefore, we give a voice to companies, in our strategy, we welcome the importance of the national endogenous potential, such as the footwear industry, textiles, wine, the automotive cluster, the tourism cluster, and we draw an approach that involves the dynamization of the internal market with returns of income, which enables us to achieve what has never been achieved in recent decades: to put the country to grow at the same time as it presents a positive balance of accounts with the outside. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is not done, as the PSD and the CDS have shown us in their government experience, killing the internal market, drying up the audacity of entrepreneurs and nullifying consumer confidence. [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] This cocktail of economic insensity, which even gnaws the political absurdity, has come out to us very expensive, whether in business insolvencys, whether in unemployment, whether in the credit earned from families, or also in the unacceptable rumb in social protection, throwing young and old for a misery that should bludgeon these rulers. [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] Dear Minister for Economic Affairs, your efforts, your commitment and the strategic vision that reveals to the country is what the Portuguese need to undo this Gordium, untiring a reality that has never been realized, but which is essential to relaunch the country. This solution that we advocate for Portugal, where we give the economy the central role in development and refer to its instrumental value, decisive but never decisive, the role of public finances, cannot be an act of faith or a work of chance, is, as we have seen, the hat that covers a role of initiatives and actions that consist on a different vision for the country. It is a new approach that recognizes the role of companies, which enhances the courage of entrepreneurs in economic recovery in order to ensure growth and employment. This is what the Ministry of Economics is doing throughout the country, step by step, but with the certainty that without a new economic policy, which also protects and stimulates the entrepreneurial soul of Portuguese, which so many results abroad, we do not take advantage of a new generation of entrepreneurs, which is the seal of guarantee for our collective future. This government has no reservations about the importance of entrepreneurship, so that young and less young people can find in their country the right environment that welcomes, caress and promotes new businesses, new projects and new ambitions. This is also the Startup Portugal, a program designed for the future, which crosses Industry 4.0, but which is meant to transform ideas into business into the global market. In this approach of Startup Portugal there is the launch of a force of cross-fertilization, cross-fertilization between knowledge and business, between technology and industry, between universities and companies. But there is also in this program a new one: it is a Portuguese project that bets on the versatility of our entrepreneurs and on their ability to reach new markets, whether with external partnerships or with foreign investors. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the coming days we will see the emergence of mechanisms throughout the country to accelerate business and incubators to transform ideas into companies. This will become the country's brand image, which, as it reminds us, with great opportunity, the socialist youth, leaves no one behind. That is the case, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, no one stays behind us! [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] I conclude by stressing that I have just described a little more than six months of a government that interprets development through a new way of looking at the role of the economy and companies, and that will thus be with a clear idea of industrialization,... [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] ... with a true stimulus to entrepreneurship, with the undisturbed focus on innovation and knowledge, with the recognition of the importance of the efforts and commitment of entrepreneurs, as well as in the establishment of a facilitated and simplified business environment, which we will begin to live a new time in Portugal, reinforcing the attention of the investment outside our country, thus placing it, even more often, on the radar of big businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u3	They signed up to ask for clarification. Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo, PSD, and Mr Paulino Ascension, BE. Mr Carlos Pereira, how do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u4	I am replying to the two, at the end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u5	All right. So Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u6	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, every time this parliamentary bench talks about economics, it looks more like the Titanic orchestra. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u7	We all believe that, as long as this government has taken possession, things have not done well in the economy. All recognise this except its bench except the government and except the parliamentary benches of those who support the government. Members of this bench should be very concerned about the indicators of the economy. I would say more: the Members of this bench should be ashamed of the evolution of the indicators of this economy since this government took possession. [[It's true! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u8	Indeed, the Socialist Party had the narrative that there was another way of doing things. It's true, there was. Indeed, there was another way, much worse, and that called into question the recovery of our economy, which had been felt since 2014. But let's go to facts and numbers. GDP growth: paragraph 1. the quarter of this year, this growth was only 0, 9 %, 1. the quarter of 2015, the growth had been 1, 4 %. on that occasion, what did the opposition parties say? They said that growth was insufficient. And now what do these parties say about this low growth rate achieved by this government? Unemployment rate: 1. the quarter of the current year, the rate increased to 12, 4 %. More than 48 000 jobs have been destroyed. With more unemployment and less employment, we certainly all agree that neither businesses nor families nor the economy in general can be better. What does the PS say about job destruction? Deny, of course, and that is the consequence of your state of denial. But there is more bad news for this government. According to the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), the investment decreased by 2, 2 % on 1. this year's quarter, something that hasn't happened since 1. the quarter of 2013, i.e. at the height of the economic crisis and the recession we had, the result of the bankruptcy that the Socialist Party left us in 2011. I do not know where you were looking for the pink view of our exports, because in March of this year they fell 3, 8 % and fell 2, 5 % again in April. The turnover of the services also fell in March 5, 7 % compared to the previous year. In other words, all the indicators warn that things are not going well in the economy and, in view of this black scenario, I ask: where is the pink scenario promised by this government? But I also answer: there is no! What exists is a government that has broken the credibility that Portugal had recovered from investors. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u9	What exists is a government that has broken the confidence of national and international companies and investors. So, honourable Member, I would like to ask: do you or do you not recognise this Parliamentary bench that, in view of these economic indicators, something is wrong with our economy? Do you recognise this bench that the government needs to reverse its policy if it does not do so, to be taking the country back to financial difficulties? Or will this bench continue to behave like the Titanic orchestra and continue to play, continue to play until the water reaches the feet, knees or neck of the Portuguese, as in 2011? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u10	Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u11	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, the problem of decapitalisation of companies, such as unemployment, is solved in a simple way that is more effective, with growth policies that do not exempt public investment. Growth will raise business results and improve the health of its own capital. It is necessary to go to the root of the problem, because palliative measures do not change the essence. The parties on the right always walk with the narrative of having recovered the investment. By analyzing the components of the variation of the investment and sprinkling this investment we dismantle the fallacy. in periods that, in terms of chain variation, reveal as much possible investment variation — the first quarter of 2014 and 2015 respectively, which is the most relevant component we find? Variations in stocks resulting from the stop of the Galp refineries for maintenance, variations in stocks that obviously faded into subsequent periods, and also from the construction of the real estate. Is this investment supporting the growth of the economy, creating lasting jobs? As for foreign investment, it is another fallacy. It was translated into the purchase of companies that would provide fixed income to the new owners, which would in the medium term translate into a negative balance of departure from the country’s capital. Where are the new investments, the new industrial facilities? In view of this scenario, these statistical illusions, I ask: how is the strategy recommended by the PS distinguished? How will it provide more sustained and lasting growth, promote qualified employment, which stagnates the bleeding of emigration and promotes the return of those who have left the country? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u12	To reply, Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions you asked me. Mr. Virgílio Macedo, I understand that the PSD is dying to build a narrative that this government and this Socialist Party are contrary to the economy and businesses. [[PSD protests.]] But, in fact, this effort that PSD is making only one attempt reveals a little obsessive to hide... [[PSD protests.]] The gentlemen. Members are always very excited when the PS parliamentary board speaks! As I said, from my point of view and from the PS point of view, this position only aims to hide what the PSD and CDS have imposed on the Portuguese economy and business fabric in the last five years, and this garrote is clear when you look at the results at the end of 2015 when you left the government. at the end of 2015 we were on a true tilted plan. The country was in a deep inclined plane! [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, just to get an idea, you have put the Portuguese economy back 13 years! We had a drop of five percentage points in the country's gross domestic product, never seen in the country's democratic history. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr. President, Mr. Virgílio Macedo presented a set of indicators. Allow me to remind you of the indicators that you wanted to hide. The first was what came out yesterday, which is the fact that Portugal was only the second country in Europe where the industrial production index grew the most. [[PSD protests.]] Don't tell me now that this is the work of the PSD and the CDS, because we were already in April. [[PSD protests.]] Moreover, we have seen a growth in consumer confidence. So, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is clear that the PSD is desperate as regards what is a positive policy, which will be able to pull by the economy, pull by companies, ensure economic growth, increase employment and give hope again to businesses, entrepreneurs and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u14	I do not know whether Mr. Carlos Pereira has forgotten to answer one of the questions. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Paulino Ascenção has in some way corroborated our ideas on how Portugal should grow and how this growth of unemployment should be countered. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u16	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Minister of Economics, Caldeira Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is leaving a moment of economic cooling that has been happening since the middle of last year. Depending on the indicators, we have economic growth to slow down during the second half of last year, before the current government takes office, indicators that have continued to cool down to 1. The trimester. We had the growth rate slowing down from the beginning of the year; we had the investment slowing down almost from the beginning of last year; and we had the exports slowing down from at least August last year with still visible reflections in 1. The trimester. There are more positive indicators, such as: the industrial production indicators of April, mentioned above; consumer confidence; export indicators for the countries of the European Union are also giving very positive signs; or, if you want, tourism indicators, which also point out that, after several years, we will have an even more positive year, with a record of the number of tourists, an increase of 17 % of the profits in paragraph 1. the quarter, 12 % in sleeping and 12 % in guests. The speech that everything is going wrong and the worse, the better it is a speech that doesn't convince the Portuguese, it's a destructive speech, it's a speech that doesn't matter to anyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Coming to the Assembly of the Republic says that unemployment has increased when, compared to one year ago, unemployment has fewer than 45 000 people and has therefore had a positive development, with a net job creation also positive. But the role of the government is not to discuss indicators, it is not to look at indicators that are cooling and standing still. The role of the Minister of Economy is to look at the indicators and say: "These indicators do not satisfy us, they do not leave us happy, they leave us dissatisfied! Perhaps we share this dissatisfaction with many of the Members, but what we are doing is taking action, and the measures we have taken were looking at the specific problems of companies, the challenges posed to society and the opportunities that also exist. Specific problems begin with excessive indebtedness and funding problems. The Capitalisation Programme is designed precisely to combat these problems, disincentive to capitalisation and excessive indebtedness, with concrete measures. Yesterday, the Mission Structure presented its full report. This full report will now be transformed into a resolution of the Council of Ministers, but we did not expect the Mission Structure to present its measures to start putting on the ground the funds that we have already set up, either the Risk Capital Funds or the Business Angels funds, or also the funds of the State guarantee lines, which are now being negotiated with the bank and which should be available to companies in the next two weeks. Specific measures were also taken at Startup Portugal, because Portugal does not only have problems, Portugal also has challenges and opportunities. The challenges we face with Industry 4.0 are being worked with industry in a participatory process, in which we have involved some of the largest international companies such as Siemens, Bosch or Altice, large companies experienced in this area, who share it with us, and also companies in our traditional sectors, such as footwear, clothing, or sectors such as tourism, strategic sectors for Portugal. Startup Portugal and Industry 4.0 aim to meet the challenges of the 21st century industry and also to respond with concrete measures. We announced, 15 days ago, in Porto, Startup Portugal, with the immediate opening of contests and applications for startups that want to participate in this program. We announced that in the next State Budget the Seed program will be implemented, of incentives for business angels and investors who want to invest in companies to receive tax incentives in the IRS. We announced the Startup Voucher programme, whose candidatures are scheduled to open in August, therefore, even before the end of summer, so that companies can apply and so that students can apply, for example, to the Momentum programme and have one year to set up their company project with special support from the State, which allows them to guarantee their support during this year of project creation. The Seed program and Startup Voucher program are to help new entrepreneurs make their way; the capitalisation funds and the Risk Capital Funds are to help companies and valid projects grow. The economy is taking action, and in this sense we are working, with concrete measures to support new businesses and businesses that want to grow, with measures to support the restructuring of companies that are in difficulty, with financing instruments but also with legal review instruments, using the revisions that have already been made and giving continuity to this process, what has been done with the PER(special process of revitalization) but looking at what was not working, for what was missing, creating and preparing these instruments. The policy we are making is also listening to people. We're against an idea of being carpiring around indicators. We are against an idea of passing negativeism. The best response to those who just say that everything is going wrong or that there is no trust is not given by us, is given today by investors, such as Faurecia or Continental Mabor, who are making large investments that have announced today, already with this government, or by several other investments that we have in portfolios, with several eligible candidates, of more than EUR 1 billion investment, which are on major investments in the contractual regime, or with the record of applications that we had only in April and May, already after having left the State Budget, which only came out at the end of March, and already after being better known all the outline of the policy of the current government, a record of candidatures, said, a number of candidatures of more than 3,500 companies, with investment intentions that exceed EUR 3000 million and demonstrate strong confidence in the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The government's confidence in the economy is based on these figures, it is based on contact with companies, it is based on concrete initiatives. I was in Lisbon this morning to open a space that no longer affected the Ministry of Defence, the Military Maintenance, an abandoned space, which, in conjunction with the Government and the City Hall of Lisbon, will be transformed into a space for modern business, entrepreneurship, but also for large service companies who want to settle in Lisbon. I was in port earlier on on on a similar initiative with the City Hall of Porto, and had the pleasure of having already been in Braga, Aveiro, Coimbra, and in several other parts of the country, with municipal chambers, with entrepreneurs, with companies that are investing and that believe in our country. These companies represent our future and these companies are not — and I apologize to those who believe so — with no confidence in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u18	Mr Minister, there are nine speakers registered to request clarifications. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u19	I shall reply to the groups of three speakers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u20	So Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor of the first group of three.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u21	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, it is always a pleasure to see you here in Parliament. And today Mr Minister comes to tell us what the role of the Minister for Economic Affairs is. I confess that I have also asked myself what the role of the Minister for Economic Affairs is. And I have reminded myself of a person who knows him very well, that is, his friend — I think he would have even invited him to the government — who, when he wanted to describe him, did not remember a better term than the word « shy». I was in doubt about what the Prime Minister meant when he thought the Minister for Economic Affairs was shy. And I found that the best way to answer this question was to go to the dictionary to see the meaning of the word « shy». And there, among other synonyms, I found: bold, frightened, seated, frightened, frightened, stalked, packed, embarrassed, embarrassed, frightened, weak, lazy, unbelievably, uncertain, mute, mature, mijote,... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ... soft, cowardly, dusty, pulsy, pulsy, angry, shy, self-retired, fearful, fearful, shameful. [[PS protests.]] Minister, it wasn't me, nor anyone from the CDS bench, who called you this. It was a person who is your friend, the Prime Minister who invited you to the government, who describes you this way. And I, that most of the time I do not agree with the Prime Minister, confess that this time he, perhaps, was somewhat right. [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u22	Mr Minister, whenever there is news about the Portuguese economy, this news, unfortunately, is weak, is shy. We look at all international agencies and, whenever they talk about the Portuguese economy, the truth is they go through the numbers down. The IMF, the Council of Public Finance, the UTAO, the European Commission, the OECD, and now even the Banco de Portugal itself, when they look at the data of the Portuguese economy, say that they are much weaker than the data that the Government continues to give of the growth of our economy. There is a question, Minister, what would you like to ask, from now on: if the great problem of the Portuguese economy began in 2015, then why did you include in the State Budget this year a growth of 1, 8 % in the Portuguese economy? [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is only then that it cannot be a novelty for you, Minister. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Second question, Minister : today we look at a number of respected international agencies and we realize that there is indeed a problem in the economy in Portugal. We look at what the European Stability Mechanism says about the Portuguese economy and it says that the reversal of the reforms implemented during the programme will reduce competitiveness. The newspaper even says « government will harm the economy », its government, the government of which you are the minister. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u23	When we look, for example, at what Commerce Bank says about Portugal, Trade Bank said in 2014 that Portugal was the economic miracle of the Iberian Peninsula and today says that Portugal is on the verge of a crisis. [[Protests by the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Pedro Nuno Santos.]] And I think it is curious that the Minister comes here to talk about the data of the National Institute of Statistics, forgetting, for example, that the National Institute of Statistics tells us that the investment in Portugal fell 0, 6 % only in 1. the quarter, and that exports (June data already) decreased by 2, 5 %. And this, Mr Minister, of course, has an effect on employment data, which has been recovering since 2013 and which, as you know, this year, are slowing down, are unfortunately not having the boost that they already had last year. And this, Mr Minister, of course, implies that we have a Minister of Economics who is bold and not a Minister of Economics who is shy. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you two very focused questions. You presented yesterday a programme on the capitalisation of Portuguese companies and all we can do for that same capitalisation is absolutely essential. We do not know the programme, we do not know any of the measures — and I hope you are kind enough to send them to Parliament itself —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u25	... but there is a measure on which I would like to question it already, because the first signs are not good signs. The government has announced that it would like to be able to strengthen the financing of equity companies by giving them the same tax treatment that is given to those who resort to the bank. It happens that today's news, Minister, is that this measure will not have an increase in tax expenditure, i.e., it will not have an effective benefit for companies. I'd like you to confirm what's going to happen specifically in this measure. But I would also like to tell you something else that is very important. When the government made 100 days, the Minister made a journey through the country, saying that in 100 days he had put 100 million euros in the economy. I was very worried and went to see what was going on and if that would be good news. I realized that the millions I was talking about would probably be those millions of QREN, who have been paying for a long time and that the finances are withholding, that the Minister has already announced many times that they would pay, but that, in fact, and just asking the companies, they have not yet arrived there.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u26	This is an intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u27	Therefore, I realized that 100 days are 100 days without the QREN million — more than 100 million euros are missing from the QREN. It is 100 days, but it is 100 days without investment, it is 100 days without growth, it is 100 days without economy — and it is unfortunately the role of the Minister of Economy of the Government of Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u28	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr António Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u29	Mr President, Minister, we, the more we know, the more information we have, realize that the worst is the situation of the Portuguese economy. I would portray this government as a two-speed government: one that is the speed of hare, on reversals, on de-investment, on rising unemployment, on the degradation of macroeconomic indicators, on external mistrust. [[Protests by Members of the CFP Bruno Dias and The Greens José Luís Ferreira.]] Look at the orchestra! But it has another speed, which is the speed of snail, as regards economic growth, investment, exports, employment, the application of measures that facilitate economic activity, in particular the application of Portugal 2020 ( and we will already talk about it). Mr Minister, it is very sad what is happening in Portugal, it is really very sad. It's a very bad portrait. Some examples have already been given here. In fact, Churchil even said there are three lies: small ones, big ones and statistics. But even the latter do not save you, there are no statistics that are favorable to you, nor can they use them. You know why? The results in the investment field are what demonstrates what is the Portuguese reality of economic activity. There is no investment! [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u30	The Minister speaks of the investment in a very timid way, saying that it happened, that it opened. But most of them, those whom Mr. Minister knows, come from the previous government. They do not trust this government — it is true, you know it is true. As has already been demonstrated by my colleagues, you speak, but in terms of the dynamics of economic activity, we have seen nothing. A lot of propaganda, but no economic activity. However, Mr Minister, I would like you to finally clarify a number of matters, in particular, and we have already made requests to Mr Minister for payments to companies under the QREN of the final balances. [[There's got to be a can!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u31	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. But, here you are, you're on your way to solving matters. And things don't work. That is a great reality. And what we now have is that payments within the framework of the QREN, the final balances of the 2. last year's semester, they didn't get to the companies. Zero! And the Minister is saying that they paid EUR 3 million, but in practice they didn't pay. They have solved some situations which, as Mr Minister says, come from behind and which were project audits, finally, normal situations. But then he apologizes with the overbooking and with a set of materials. Now, we'd like it to be clear to us at last. In fact, we really wanted to know if you have already solved this matter with the Minister for Finance. By the way, we also like to know what we are implementing under the Portugal 2020 incentive system. It's not payments. Mr Prime Minister, this week he has already told us about payments and advances to companies, but what we want to know is the execution, the expenditure validated, carried out by companies, and certified. That's what we want to know. Implementation is that, it's nothing else, it's no payments. You pay, you pay money, and I ask: what are the guarantees companies give to the Portuguese State and Brussels for the advances they have received? It is a clarification that has to be given to our Parliament. We don't know, but we want to know. by the way, it doesn't exist. Mr Minister, right now, in this caracolette economy, as I said, we have a lot of show-offs, but in practice we have nothing. Investors and confidence in the economy do not exist. In fact, it is enough to see Mr. Minister's appearance, the sadness on his face, to understand the country's economic situation. True, lack of courage, lack of energy, Minister, is a reality. But it ended with a sentence by Gustave Flaubert, who said: « Beware of sadness. She is a vice». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u32	To conclude this first block of requests for clarification, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u33	Mr President, Mr Minister, first of all, after the interventions of the CDS and the PSD, I should have advised Mr Pedro Mota Soares that when he was a minister he would have compared a dictionary to know the meaning of the words « unemployment» and « poverty ». Maybe it was good for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] Mr. Costa Silva, after his speech, let me remind you that the caracoleta speed is certainly that of that government which had the responsibility to move forward with Portugal 2020, from 1 January 2014 onwards, and that in November 2015 when he left the government, apparently only one company had received money from Community funds from Portugal 2020, had been a restaurant. This is the speed of the caracolette. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then this is a debate on economics and businesses, and it is also important that we put the issue of energy here. Energy and energy costs are considerable costs for both consumers and industry. We must therefore have a energy policy that is friendly to industry and consumers, always safeguarding the most vulnerable consumers. Competition and liberalisation of energy markets should benefit consumers and industry, and not harm them. We therefore welcome the importance of the sector to the Government, in particular in the commitment of energy efficiency in tariffs and sustainability. Energy efficiency is the future and also the present sustainability of the sector. I therefore ask you, Minister: what policies are planned in the area of energy efficiency? over the last years, at energy level, the Iberian Peninsula worked as an island. As such, it is to praise the work of our Government to, at the level of interconnections, particularly with Morocco, through the submarine electric cable, to solve the problem in the sense of Portugal is not, together with Spain, an island. Question: how are the negotiations with both Morocco and France, the country that poses problems for Portugal and Spain to continue to be an island from an energy point of view? I stress this importance and, for the Socialist Party, interlinkages are crucial. in the context of the 2016 State Budget, a proposal on a social tariff for the energy area was approved by this House. The Socialist Party and its parliamentary group have always defended this measure, a just measure aimed at responding to those who need it most. It is public that from 1 July consumers can benefit from this tariff. So we want to know: what is the situation? Who's paying for this measure? Are they consumers or are they companies in the sector? It is important to respond, as it is also important to say, in this and other matters, that the Socialist Party has fulfilled what others have promised. The word given is an honest word and it is a word fulfilled. And that, the Socialist Party did in the social tariff. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do so by responding to those who need the most: a fair energy policy that helps the most vulnerable consumers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u34	As stipulated, the Minister for Economic Affairs will now answer this group of questions. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the nice reference to my alleged shyness, which is something which, in fact, does not overwhelm me from the beginning, I begin by saying that, if I had given more attention—and we could also go to a dictionary to check the problems that cause the lack of attention—,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... to Mr. Prime Minister, I had noticed that this was a compliment to the policies of the Ministry of Economics. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u36	And the compliment was that, as bold and strong policies that we are developing in the Ministry of Economics — some of them are policies that long ago the country and the companies claimed — in the Ministry of Economics, we were, eventually, being too shy and discreet in their disclosure and in their, if they wanted, propaganda.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u37	It was allegedly a compliment!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u38	Well, I've been more committed to working... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and also listening to the various stakeholders, such as companies, business associations, trade unions, stakeholders, in the case of the financial sector capitalisation programme, which are very important. And that's why I've been discreet not to be announcing policies and measures while I'm still listening to people. however, even with a more involved method of work, with a deeper auscultation of the people of the sector, we have launched measures, for example, in the case of capitalization, in conjunction with the Mission Structure. That's how I'm acting! And discreet, to me, it is no insult, just as shy as it is not insult, it is only a characteristic, which, unfortunately, I do not have, but, if I had, I would have no problem with it. I prefer to have bold policies than to have a lot of fanfarronic and political, those, yes, shy, for support to companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The opposition spoke here of economic miracle that should be happening, even though the Portuguese economy has slowed down since the 2nd. the quarter of last year, therefore, several months before the entry of the new government, and finally the « Titanic » in which the economy is now in. It does not seem to me that any of the images are correct: neither in Portugal is there a miracle, nor is the Portuguese economy a Titanic. It is true that the Portuguese economy has sank a lot with the adjustment of recent years. It's true! Production's down, investment's down. It is true that we are working to improve it. They spoke here about Community funds, the COMPETE and business incentive funds. In fact, in the first 100 days, we proposed putting 100 million, in fact, we put 116, and that have already exceeded 200 million. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u39	I cannot fail to note, with any concern, that the PSD, now apparently, is against the advances to companies that want to invest. Do you think companies have good cash in Portugal? This is a position with which we do not agree and, indeed, the 200 million that we have already advanced to companies are being executed, are being put into investment. Yes, we have advanced money to companies, because after these years, companies are not on cash strike. You also said here that the QREN was the caracol pass. I'm sorry! The QREN payments will be completed by the end of this month. Many of the payments have already been made. We have kept a good pace of payments and already here, I remembered, and I remember again, that we are often paying expenses made in 2012 and 2013 of processes that were completely paralyzed. So, if this is walking around caracol, if you do more in six months than, perhaps, you did in the last year and a half, before this government took possession, then I don't know what kind of trouble existed in this sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On energy, I would like to thank the intervention and say that we are, in fact, committed to competition, that what we are doing with the social tariff is very important for the extension of a people's right, which, for bureaucratic reasons, were being excluded, and we are working on interconnections, because these are very important for the strategy that we have of renewable energy and for this strategy to have lower costs for consumers. That's our greatest commitment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u40	To begin the second round of requests for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u41	Mr President, Minister, I wanted to put, essentially, two questions, and to put the first question I will not read dictionaries, nor news of newspapers, just a report by a small entrepreneur in the restoration sector. Some of you. Members certainly know the pastry, which is the most known in Almada, that this businessman directs, and I read a few paragraphs in a letter that sent us: « Since January 2012 our two establishments have been paying in every 10 euro of sales more than 1 euro of tax than before, given the value of VAT has passed from 13 % to 23 %. now, 52 months since the increase in VAT, during which we have continued to practice the same price tables, we have already paid more than 1 million euros on that tax, which has been fully supported by the breakdown of our marketing margin. It leaves that which is increasingly reduced, because over the course of time the costs of the raw material have steadily increased, and in some cases increased by more than 50 %, without any increases to our price tables resulting from the difficulties of the market in absorbing these corrections. from there the very critical situation we are going through. The existing management fund has long ended, the savings of partners to cope with old age have been placed in companies, not to make a bad figure with anyone, in the hope that this enormous error — the rise of VAT — which has proved catastrophic for a balanced sector of activity so far, would be corrected. On 1 July, when the corrections arrive, they will be late and, by themselves, do not resolve the critical situation in which we find ourselves. Our firms, as a whole, are weak at about 1 million, sharing almost all of their debt between the bank, finance and social security. During the past two years we have been afraid that we will seek solutions that will enable us to face the future with optimism and realism, but in the last two years we have only found closed doors, because all the funds, all the plans, everything we know exists to help companies has, as a premise, the condition of companies not having debts. However, it is clear that any company in difficulty will certainly have debts to these entities, since they represent a great deal of the obligations of the undertakings. And as such, they are deprived of the right to ask for help and to be able to balance. I look forward to 52 more workers and their families who depend on the success of our companies, who intercede for us, with those of law, who have the power and duty to help us. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Minister, I think I know that the same Missive has been sent to all parliamentary groups and also to the Government. This is the translation, in real life, of what we are discussing here. This is the situation of thousands of companies. And when we talk — and we will already go ahead of ourselves in this debate — of new businesses, startups, business angels, new business opportunities, we cannot ignore the fact that there is a real economy, that there are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that are debating themselves with enormous difficulties. We cannot forget those who want to continue in the business and who have always manifested and demonstrated the ability and commitment to make the country move forward. We can't let ourselves fall into the idea that what's new is what matters. Let us put this issue, precisely, so that there is a new solution to the concrete problems that exist and that are not being solved in the measures and policies we have found, on the contrary. On the other hand, I would like to refer here to the new old issues which are raised in the discussion on the so-called "digitisation of the economy", particularly with regard to workers, their rights and working conditions in these sectors. We know that the Government is aware that one of the central aspects of this debate of the so-called "digitisation" is precisely in the labour relations. We believe that it is indispensable and that it is imperative that workers and their organizations have a word to say in this discussion and that these new policies, new trends, new generations and revolutions, which then translate into the Industry 4.0 programme, which the Government presents, are not effectively a new generation of precarious labour relations, degradation of working conditions, loss of rights and precarious life. from this point of view, there are very deep concerns that result from concrete experience and real life of what has been learning up to today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u42	Mr President, I would like to remind you that you have used the floor for a request for clarification and not for an intervention. But I know what the beach is.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u43	Madam President, I am sorry, but I was convinced that all the time would always be followed by the criterion that Mr President recently announced, that there was no limitation of the 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u44	Yes, there would not be so much rigour with regard to the application of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u45	In any case, I can tell you that I had just asked the question when the President drew my attention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u46	Let's move on. Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u47	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, as we all know, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have an absolutely central role in our economy. They account for around 99 % of the total number of companies in our country, account for 80 % of total employment and represent 60 % of the total volume of non-financial companies. But despite the importance of our economy, the truth is that, in general, these companies continue to have excessive levels of indebtedness. And this scenario is even more worrying, if we take into account that small and medium-sized enterprises are very dependent on banking credit, especially in the short term. In fact, forgotten during the last four PSD / CDS governments, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are largely completely dependent on banking credit, which alone is unhealthy and unrecommendable. In addition to all this, there is an important element in this area: I am referring to the financial imbalance movement that the Portuguese banks have played in recent years and which has led to a sharp increase in the risk criteria required in the financing of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which has naturally been reflected in the activity of these companies. However, with limited access to international capital markets, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises face a serious financing problem. A serious problem that the recent banking concentration in our country has worsened substantially because, with this concentration, there have been more restrictions on access to credit, especially with the reduction of business ceilings. That is, the situation that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are experiencing today is a major obstacle to the resumption of business investment and, as a result, compromises the revival of the Portuguese economy and economic growth. So if we take all these difficulties into account, on the one hand, and on the other hand the importance of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises for our economy, it seems to us that there is no need for a great effort to realize that this framework is making the country's economic recovery difficult. I would say even more: in view of the weight that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have in our economy, there will be no economic recovery unless efforts and measures to support these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are channelled, a urgency which has been recognised in the joint position established between the Socialist Party and the Green Party. It was therefore interested to know what the government's strategy was and what measures it was considering to develop as a way not only to speed up and facilitate the access of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to finance but also to promote their capitalisation. Mr Minister, we know that in December the Government created the Mission Structure for Business Capitalization and, half a year ago on its creation, it was interested to know what work has already been done by this Mission Structure, in particular whether the analysis and diagnosis are already completed and what capitalisation measures are proposed by this Structure. On the other hand, it was also interested to know where the measures to increase the energy efficiency of companies are located. It is a matter that the Greens would like to stress not only the importance of the matter from an economic point of view but, above all, the importance of it from an environmental point of view and its potential contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and, of course, in the fight against climate change which is indisputably associated with it. because of the relevance of this matter, the Greens believe it would be important for the government to be able to tell us something, because we know little about the measures that the government wants to implement in relation to increasing the energy efficiency of companies and which has a great deal to do with the environmental impacts resulting from energy consumption, which contribute decisively to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and also to combating climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u49	Mr Minister, in conclusion, we would like to know whether the Government already has results on Industry 4.0. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u50	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor to ask for clarifications — the last of this group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister, the Startup Portugal programme emerges as a central pillar of this government's economic policy and I now declare that we have nothing against innovation policies, whether technological ones or processes, when looking for new solutions that solve people's problems. however, this program seems solely oriented towards a profit or speculative business model, as if there was no other model of organization of economic activities in the country and in the world. But there is a cooperative and associative model. I give an example: the largest economic group in the Spanish Basque country, called the Mondragon Corporation. The name will not say much, but people will recognize the name Fagor, which is part of a cluster of cooperatives that employs 74 000 people, has a turnover above EUR 3000 million and in its 60 years of history has not yet produced any millionaires, but produces a lot of wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u53	This associative and corporate model also responds to the problem of innovation and should be encouraged in a growth strategy. It responds better in the long term to the question of employment, whose various studies show that it is a more resilient model to crises, more perennial, strongly anchored in the territory, that it does not move and creates durable jobs, of greater quality than the speculative profit model. Its governance is democratic. Why should the company be excluded from the scope of the application of democracy and should continue to live in absolutism, such as 'the company is me'? But the company is not only the entrepreneur, the company is also the whole of its workers, it is also the community where the company enters and depends on it. And why should these actors, workers, community, be excluded from participating in the governance of a company? Who, in this House, does not defend democracy? Mr Minister, what is the concept of an entrepreneur that forms this programme? Is it a broader concept of creativity, of non-conformity to reality? Is it a concept where all creators, artists, researchers fit? Or will it be a narrower concept where only those who want to earn money fit in any way?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u55	Not all people move by greed, not all want to be rich, not all want to be bosses, I assume most people don't want it. But this does not make them less creative, less innovative, less engaged in a better life for themselves and their communities. The Simples programme showed this when it was found that most of the measures result from contributions from public servants. Now, according to the most widespread view of entrepreneurship, these people because they are public servants and would not have the ability to innovate. But reality is lying. Therefore, there must be mechanisms, ways for these people to organize themselves and participate in the process of creating wealth and development. Therefore, measures should be considered in this programme to support associations and cooperatives, without excluding them from any sector of activity, so it is necessary to simplify and deburocratize the creation and life of these entities. It is also necessary to consider support for workers of units at risk of relocation so that they have the opportunity to continue their activity in self-management, as is already done in other countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u57	Because democracy itself is a form of self-management and if it is valid for the government of States and countries, why should it not also be valid for the government of companies? Market liberalisation has led to an increasing concentration of economic agents and giants emerge with overwhelming power both before consumers and before other economic players, with whom they relate, for example, to smaller suppliers. The distribution sector is a good example of this, where we see, above all, small agricultural producers being systematically crushed and blackmailed in their relationship with the large surfaces.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u59	Therefore, without effective regulation, the market disappears, so I ask what measures and actions it has planned in this context to safeguard the performance and survival of these small producers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u60	To answer this set of questions, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the questions you asked. I begin by replying to Mr Bruno Dias of the Communist Party, saying that this pastry which he referred to in Almada, like many other pastries and like many other restaurants, had difficult years in these years of contraction of domestic demand, in these years of adjustment. We know it was difficult years. The increase in VAT during these years has had a very strong impact, leading to the closure of some of these establishments, to the decrease in the number of workers in others and to more complicated situations in other companies that have managed to maintain, but which have in fact degraded their financial ratios. VAT is a measure that included our macroeconomic scenario, our Government Programme, and will be fulfilled on 1 July. It is a measure that will help these companies, it is a measure — and we have been in conversations with ARESP — that may have a strong potential for job creation and maintenance in companies that will have more room not to close. It is a measure that we will be careful to have the notion that it has these results. With regard to the financing measures we are launching either in the Capitalisation Programme or in the Startup Portugal programme, they are of different nature for different types of companies. We have measures for restructuring companies which have been in existence for many years but which have problems and need not only to finance but also to rebalance their balances; we have measures to stimulate the entry of capital with a more favourable tax treatment and there is no discrimination to be more favourable to indebted tax than to introduce capital supplies or capital reinforcement; but we also have measures to finance the growth of new companies and with growth potential either in traditional sectors or in new sectors, with risk capital, etc. We are aware of the issue that has raised, of the digitization of the economy, and the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security is involved, together with us, in the issues of workers' rights and labour relations with regard to new forms of economic organization. Mr José Luís Ferreira spoke about the level of indebtedness of SMEs. Mr President, the lines of capital that we are launching either the State-guarantee lines or the risk capital lines, or the reversible capital funds for which we are still working, are addressed to SMEs or SMEs with restructuring problems — and the reversible capital may have an important role, although not exclusively... The State-guarantee lines can help companies finance themselves for longer periods, with lower interest rates and are intended exactly for SMEs. He talked about energy efficiency. For us, energy efficiency in companies is a priority. We believe that it is a priority for two reasons: not only because it improves the competitiveness of companies, and improves competitiveness by lowering costs — not labour costs, but also other costs that are equally important to businesses — but also because it is important for the environment and for the decarbonisation of the economy. The funds launched in conjunction with the Ministry of the Environment have energy efficiency in companies as an important aspect. The programme we are launching with technological centres has improved energy efficiency in companies as an important aspect. Mr Paulino Ascenção drew attention to the Startup Portugal programme and we thank him for the support he expressed here. It is, in fact, an important programme to stimulate innovation, an important programme to give these new companies greater opportunities not only to start but also to have greater chances of surviving and implementing themselves. What I see in these companies is not much greed. What I see in these entrepreneurs is not greed, but ambition. The ambition, often, of believing that the technology they have developed in a university can create a business model, can reach people, can improve people's lives. It's this ambition I see. And in these companies I also see a lot of participation, with different models. Some companies are more focused on profit, more focused on making money, but it is a model in which the people who form them have a high level of equality, in which the workers who belong to these companies have a great share in what business objectives are, as far as business advances are concerned, in what is the creation of value. In many of these companies I see very interesting models, some of them very close to the cooperative, in other cases less, but I think that all these models have space and, above all, the most important — and there I fully agree with you — is the creation of value that brings to the economy, more than just giving it profits to some. But if they give and if it creates value, it's not a problem either. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u62	For a final round of requests for clarification, Mr Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government of Portugal, led by the Socialist Party, fulfils the word given. The word given is an honest word. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] The Government Programme was presented and approved in this House and presents a set of measures that clearly demonstrate a different vision for the country. This vision, quite different from the one that gave us knowledge of the previous government, was incorporated into the State Budget and the Great Plan Options for 2016, also approved here. One of the most obvious marks, one of the most distinctive marks between the PSD-led government and the PS-led government is precisely business support and economic support. While the previous government preached unimpacted, the current Government of the Socialist Party does, does and values companies, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. In order to support the efforts of businesses and entrepreneurs and in order to really enable companies to be the engine of economic growth, development and job creation, the current government has introduced concrete measures in the budget that well reflect the importance of corporate capitalisation. We know that this is one of the main problems of our economy and that is why the government is committed to promoting its growth, strengthening its competitiveness and building its capital structures. from there the EUR 1500 million of European funds launched as financial instruments to leverage the national economy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we do not forget the deterioration of the country's economic and financial situation over four painful years between 2011 and 2015. We do not forget the profound deterioration of GDP during that period. We do not forget that the standard of living of the Portuguese was back in the 1990s and was 25% below the European average during that period. [[PSD protests.]] We do not forget that per capita GDP fell by 7 % in relation to the European standard and the standard of living of Portuguese families returned more than 20 years during that period. We do not forget that Portugal was the European country which had increased taxation during that period. We do not forget that the daily average of insolvencys rose from 30 to 46 during this period. We do not forget that the overdue credit increased from 5 % to 16 % and tripled the number of companies that failed to pay their loans during that period. Finally, we do not forget, and the Portuguese do not forget either, that the PSD and CDS government was responsible for the greatest impoverishment of the country's memory and an attack on unprecedented businesses and entrepreneurs in our democracy. For the Government of the Socialist Party, our companies and our entrepreneurs are at the centre of political activity. Supporting the efforts of businesses, supporting the efforts of our entrepreneurs so that they can, as they should, be the driving force of economic growth, development and job creation is one of our central concerns. In fact, the government has started well...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u64	Very bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u65	... and began early to carry out its Programme on this matter. The current government wants to go far, in fact, to go far and present a new challenge for the country. in this framework, Portugal 2020 presents itself as a central instrument in support of companies, in support of the economy and in support of country growth. That is why my question is very objective and very directed towards the implementation of Portugal 2020. I ask you if we all remember how shameful the implementation rate of Portugal 2020 was at the end of 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u66	For further clarification, Mr Paul Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u67	Madam President, I would like to greet you and congratulate you and the ladies and gentlemen. Members and the Minister for Economic Affairs. Mr Minister, let's talk about exports. During his speech, you asked to move on to this very important issue for the country, which has to do with exports, but we, the Democratic Social Party, make it a point to talk about it. Mr Minister, the latest data, the most recent of April, point out that Portugal is selling less than 61 % to China — I repeat, we are selling less 61 % to China! The figures also point out that we are selling less than 16 % to the United States and less 1, 4 % to Germany. The Minister and also the Prime Minister have been publicly saying that exports have suffered this brutal fall due to the international crisis. Minister, as I know, China is not in crisis...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u68	He's slowing down!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u69	...and the Minister knows perfectly well that he is a country that grows 6% annually. [[PS and PCP protests.]] If the Socialist Party believes that a growing country 6% is in crisis, imagine that we, with you, are growing only 1%. China is not in crisis, Germany is not in crisis, the United States is not in crisis and Portuguese exports are declining. But more than that, what we expect from the Minister, however timid, is not that he makes comments to the international crisis. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u70	What we expect from the Government and Mr Minister for Economic Affairs is that they present solutions to Portuguese companies to regain markets. Mr Minister, you have to understand this our enthusiasm and our deep concern about the issue of exports, because you are facing a party, which is the PSD, which, together with the PP, when they were in the government, in a country that was failing and having an international crisis, managed to pass exports from 29 to 43 % of GDP. What our Government did was not comment on the international situation, but open markets for Portuguese companies. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Therefore, Minister, do not come with the discourse of the international crisis. Even this morning, we received a very interesting report that realizes that even in the question of Angola, which is true that it is a country that is in crisis, China is selling more than it sold and has exceeded Portugal as an Angolan supplier. Also this morning, data from Europe's trade surplus came out of relation to the rest of the world. Europe is selling more than it has sold, according to the latest data. Portugal is in contracycle. Mr Minister, I would like you to comment on these numbers, which are worrying numbers, are serious for Portuguese companies and are responsible for them. And, Mr Minister, do not comment, present solutions, which is what we expect from the Government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u71	To reply, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, in this speech, Mr Paulo Neves, demonstrates the attitude with which the PSD is today. He only mentioned cases of export decline and forgot that for the European Union, which is still our biggest market, our exports are growing 4 %, which is a good evolution, is an interesting development if you want. For Spain, exports are growing 4, 75 % and for France 9, 3 %. You didn't have a chance to see those numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u73	Markets need to be diversified!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u74	Anyway, at the end of your question, you ran away exactly for what I'm not going to do, that is, I wanted you to comment. Now, commenting isn't my role, it's doing... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and what we presented here was solutions for the future. What I did not understand was what your proposals are, Mr President. If you have any proposals, I'd like to see you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u75	We have tabled 43 proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u76	Portugal has had good export growth in the last decade, but, as I mentioned here in the last 10 years, the four years in which it grew most in exports were in 2006 and 2007, 2010 and 2011,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u77	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u78	... that is to say, it was not in any of the years of the former Government, although during the previous Government there has been export growth, as will be with this Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u79	There isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u80	As the data indicate, Portuguese companies continue to have good export growth potential, are able to export well to European countries and will be able to respond to the problems they have in specific markets such as those mentioned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u81	This period of requests for clarification is completed. Let's move on to the intervention stage. Mr Luís Campos Ferreira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u82	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: There is no untrustworthy economy and the truth is that today in Portugal there is no confidence to invest. As a result, the economy is resuscitating and not growing. This is the sad reality that the current government has introduced. Firstly, there is no confidence on the part of national investors. Today we have excellent entrepreneurs, quality projects, bank financing and financial incentives, but the truth is that investment is on the streets of bitterness. And the guilt, it sends the truth, it's not yours, Mr. Minister of Economics. It is true that your lack of political weight does not favor or help,... [[PS and PCP protests.]] ...but the decisive guilt is the majority that supports this government, those, yes, have that responsibility. This majority of the PCP and the Left Block is against private investment, mistrust of private investment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u83	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u84	...recriminalizes private investment, everything does to disturb private investment. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] So there are many projects that could move forward and not move forward. It is not a problem of more or less measures, but it is a question of confidence — in this case, of lack of it. This government does not create confidence in Portuguese entrepreneurs and the one who pays the bill is the economy, it is the employment, it is the Portuguese who yearn for a better future. Secondly, there is no trust on the part of foreign investors. Therefore there is no foreign investment in Portugal today. And the reason is clear: this government has broken concession and privatisation contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u85	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u86	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u87	Well, whoever breaks contracts breaks trust. Even worse: this government has broken the word! [[PSD applause.]] In 2014 the Socialist Party committed itself to PSD and CDS in a gradual and phased reduction of IRC. It was an important sign for investors. He came to power, and the first thing he did was break his previous commitment. Now, the truth stands out soon, naked and raw: who breaks contracts, who breaks commitments, breaks trust. And without confidence there is not a single foreign investor who puts a euro in Portugal. And who says this, Minister, is not the opposition of the PSD or the CDS — this finding is not partisan. Those who say this are the international investors who, unfortunately, still discouraged investment in Portugal yesterday. Who says this is the OECD, it is the European Commission, it is all the international organizations that, more or less clearly, publicly assume two things: that by 2015, Portugal was on its way and that, from this year on, with this government, the image of Portugal has deteriorated in an absolutely brutal and worrying way. [[PSD applause.]] All for one reason, one reason: before, there was confidence in Portugal ; now, this government and this majority have irresponsibly unleashed the climate of confidence to invest in Portugal. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: Mr Minister for Economic Affairs may present measures in the field of corporate capitalisation, and that is positive. The Presidency Minister may speak of the Simplex, and that is relevant. Mr. Prime Minister can explain that all the investment is good, come from where he comes from. All this is important. But all this happens next to the essential, and the essential is the lack of confidence to invest in Portugal. And the crucial reason for not having confidence to invest in Portugal is this and only this: all that is important to stimulate investment is recriminalized by the PCP and the Left Block and all that is defended by the PCP and the Left Block is against productive investment in Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u88	In other words, the policies of the PCP and the Left Block are incompatible with investment in the Portuguese economy. With this, unfortunately, Portugal is lost and Portuguese is lost. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Members of the majority, stop tricks and skills. Leave sentences of circumstance only to please the ruling nomenclature. They will talk to the entrepreneurs, they will hear the investors and will conclude that the problem is not measure a or b, the question is not decision c or d. The problem is lack of confidence. And trust is not decreed. Either it exists or it doesn't exist. And today, clearly, there is no. Those who lose this today are young people who seek employment; they are the long-term unemployed who lose hope; they are families who lose purchasing power; they are the Portuguese people who lose the ambition of a better future. But that's right away. in the future, you will also lose VV. Ex. governors and Members of this recapitulated majority. Because the truth, they do not delude themselves, it is only one: the economy is different from politics. Politics can stand on the basis of tricks and skills, but in the economy there are no miracles. And without economics politics is lost. That's your future. It is only unfortunate that the Portuguese are dragged in this wave by your lightness and irresponsibility. Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs, confidence is also gained and Mr. Minister could at least try to counter this tendency of his Government to disaster. I won the sector and I won the country. It was enough that, in the face of the damaging measures to the economy and the negative data that are growing every day, the Minister did not act by default. But unfortunately it hasn't been like that. Growth prospects are getting worse — Mr. Minister 'putting his head on the sand'; exports are at an accelerated rate — Mr. Minister 'putting his head on the sand'; trade deficit does not increase — Mr. Minister 'putting his head on the sand'; employment is decreasing and unemployment is rising — Mr. Minister... [[‘Put your head in the sand’!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u89	... « put your head in the sand»; investment dramatically sinks — Mr Minister... [[‘Put your head in the sand’!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u90	... « put your head on the sand»; the intervention in the bank raises doubts — Mr Minister... [[‘Put your head in the sand’!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u91	... « put your head on the sand»; the Urban Rehabilitation Fund does not convince — Mr Minister... [[‘Put your head in the sand’!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u92	... ‘put your head on the sand’; they want to extend 35 hours to the private sector — Mr Minister... [[‘Put your head in the sand’!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u93	... « put your head on the sand ». [[PS protests.]] And yet in the mouth of the government, the great bet, the great priority, the great support of its strategy is the economy. But in practice, the economy, Mr Minister, is the great fifia of this government. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u94	Two Mrs were registered. Members to request clarification from Mr Luís Campos Ferreira. Before I give the floor to the gentlemen. Members, I would like to inform you that you are attending the plenary session in the Diplomatic Gallery, H.E. the Prime Minister of the Republic of Cape Verde, José Ulisses Correia e Silva, which is on official visit to Portugal, accompanying the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Communities and Defence, the Minister for Internal Administration, the Minister for Culture and Creative Industries and several elected Members of the electoral circle of Europe. The Ambassador of Cape Verde in Portugal and the Ambassador of Portugal in Cape Verde are also present. I'm asking the ladies. Members who salute Mr. Prime Minister of Cape Verde. [[General applause, stand up.]] We shall now turn to the requests for clarification, to which Mr Luís Campos Ferreira has just informed the Bureau that he is responding together. Mr António Eusebius has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the memory is short and therefore talking about issues such as the economy and businesses today is of the greatest importance, especially after the austerity policies we have suffered in recent years, imposed by the governments supported by my left-wing bankers. [[PSD protests.]] And why? Because they have forgotten that they have led to huge bankruptcies in recent years. Large companies, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The gentlemen. Members knew that we were going through an international crisis, but they had no scruples to deny the image of Portugal. They have repeatedly stated, denying the country's image, that it was only a problem in Portugal knowing that it was a problem in Europe and in the world, and now they come here to talk about show-off, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Show-off did you when, on the eve of elections, you announced by Portugal 2020, having achieved nothing in recent years, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u96	That's show-off! During these four years, what you did before you came to power was to use Adamastor's technique and now you want to use again: the bigger the storm the greater the heroes are. What you want is to continue using this technique, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. I will give you some examples: in the Algarve region, the one that in the country most contributes to tourism, the real estate sector had significant breaks during 2014 ; the companies that asked for insolvency were 'only' twice the national average ; the houses handed over to the bank were 'only' twice the national average. And so, yes, it is necessary to boost the economy, it is necessary to boost the tourism sector, it is necessary, Minister, that there are strong policies. Fortunately, in this sector we have had good results, there has been very positive behavior and all indicators have been very positive. According to the latest INE data published yesterday, tourism grew from January to April, 17 % in relation to profits, 12, 8 % in relation to sleeping and 12, 6 % in relation to guests, and this growth is even more important because it is low-season. We are also growing more than our Spanish neighbors. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, have we broken trust with the Portuguese? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u97	They did, they did!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u98	And what did you guys do for four years? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]] They promised something before the elections and did everything the opposite for four years! They have denied the image of the country! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] During the last week, My Lords, two major companies were set up in Portugal: Continental Mabor and Faurecia. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] There are two large multinational companies that will create 500 jobs. Is this a lack of trust? Oh, my God! That is how, with this attitude, with the speech you have made here that you want to contribute to Portugal's confidence? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]] I'm just sorry, sir. Members: that they have made such an illustrious children's choir in front of these honourable Members present in this House! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u99	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not get so far at the same time because the confusion is so great that then none goes away. Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u100	Mr President, I would like to begin by asking Mr Luís Campos Ferreira whether he heard the speech of his colleague Antonio Costa Silva when he spoke of a kind of axiomatic truth, having mentioned three types of lies: small ones, large ones and other statistics. I do not believe that you have heard the last part of your colleague's speech. Your colleague talked about the statistics. The honourable Member has made an intervention based on the investment that does not exist and the investment that does not exist is not a matter of trust or soul state, it is a matter of projects and of projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u101	Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u102	If you lose 1 minute to look at the investment statistics in Portugal over the past five years and you are colourful in this Figure 1 - you must notice that in the four years of your Government most of the change in investment has been negative. It is therefore not because of a question of trust, Mr President. Because trust is what you spend your life pointing out that the entrepreneurs had in relation to your government. You know why the entrepreneurs didn't invest? Why was there no investment in the economy? Because you have made a policy of destruction of the company, of destruction of employment, of destruction of demand and there is no investment that resists when there is no one to buy what is invested, the product of the investment. That is the problem, Mr President. The problem of investment is the capacity of a given investment to be made or not and, in order to be carried out, it needs to be acquired by people. And the economy is the people, Mr. Member, it is not the companies, nor is it the trust, because that is a matter of faith. And this is not a question of faith, it is a question of statistics. Mr President, I ask you this: in the time of your Government, do you know what the positive changes are in this figure 1 — back? It was the variations of stocks. Do you know why there was a great variation in stocks in the first quarter of 2014 and therefore a great increase in investment? You know why? Because the refinement of Sines was stopped, in maintenance, and this allowed the accumulation of the variation of stocks. That is why in the next quarter there was a large decrease in the value of the investment and therefore of stocks.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u103	Speak of bankruptcy, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u104	Moreover, in general terms, there was a reduction in investment for four and a half years. This can only be achieved through the capacity of the State, the « angel Gabriel » of the whole economy, to be able to intervene where companies, even technological innovation companies, startups, business angels, etc. We're working. Where do they work? They operate in the territory of the economy — in energy invoices, in infrastructures, in agriculture, in financial systems. That is where technological innovation companies work. If that does not exist, there is no innovation that resists, there is no capacity and realization of investment that resists, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u105	To reply, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Eusebius and Mr Heitor Sousa, I am very grateful for the questions put. I'll try to be brief in the answer. Mr António Eusebius, let me say, to you and to the whole side of the Socialist Party, that whenever I see a member of the Socialist Party standing up to talk about economics or public finances, I expect you to apologize for the state in which you left this country in 2010. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u107	Are you questioning our delicacy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u108	Only if they apologize could they rehabilitate themselves and talk about the present.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u109	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u110	But no! Not a little bit of contrition! The gentlemen. Members, like Mr Minister, continue, as I said from the rostrum, to « put their heads on the sand ». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u111	Now, it's the part where the chorus comes again!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u112	So, Mr Luís Testa, do not get excited, because politics is made of this plurality! You have to be able to listen. Just as we have a huge patience to listen to you, you must also have a little patience to listen to us. Let me tell you the following, Mr Heitor Sousa : I am very much admired by the Block on the Left, because it is a typical political force—and it is legitimate that it is — a defender of public investment and who believes that this investment is the ignition of the economy and that without it this does not start and that without it the economy does not happen. I don't agree, but I accept. It's part of plurality. But, Mr President, does not a word to the government that supports public investment continue to fall in this State budget? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u113	All right! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u114	Not a word? [[PSD applause.]] What is that commitment to your identity? What is this commitment to your convictions? For your convictions, too, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block continue to « put their heads on the sand » in exchange for remaining in power. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u115	Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, I reserve for you the last 10 seconds. I can see that everything I said is true. It is true that this Socialist Party and this Government of the Socialist Party continue to be captured by the Communist Party and the Block of the Left in such important matters as the economy. [[PS and BE protests.]] And so, Mr. Deputy, Portugal is not going there. Thus, Mr President, the economy does not promote confidence. So, Mr President, as you know but you have no courage to say, the economy will not grow. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u116	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u117	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: When the Socialist Party has marked this debate, I confess that I, who always have Kantian goodwill, said: "Well, finally, we will have access to a set of measures and understand what the Government has to say to companies, know what the solutions are to reverse the investment cycle, we will even have the opportunity to hear the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block say to what extent they support government policies and have solutions for the Portuguese economy." Ending the debate, what's coming out of here? A hand full of nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u118	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u119	I would also like to begin with Mr. Carlos Pereira's initial intervention, which said: "Well, our solution is internal consumption. Internal consumption that the previous government has attacked and harmed, domestic consumption that leads to demand, seeks to lead to investment, investment that leads to economic growth'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u120	I didn't say that! He didn't hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u121	Indeed, Mr, the fact is that the National Institute of Statistics rejects it when it says that exports have decreased by 2, 5 % and that the investment has declined by 0, 6 %. That is to say, the honourable Member is speaking of a reality that does not exist. This is the first conclusion we have withdrawn since the debate: the Socialist Party continues to talk about realities that do not exist. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u122	Then the Socialist Party says: « But this was happening in the last quarter of 2015 ». In fact, we have heard this for weeks, because whatever the topic of intervention there is always a member of the Socialist Party who says: "That is so, because it was already happening in the last few quarters. And I say: "Well, if so, what would have led the Government or the Socialist Party, of which the Minister was part, in such a group of experts, of great economists, to predict a growth of 2, 4 %? Oh, my God! If so, what led the Socialist Party to register in the Budget a growth of 1, 8 %? After all, wasn't everything going so bad anymore? Why did the Socialist Party expect growth above that which was the growth already verified by the previous government of 1,5 %?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u123	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u124	Once again, the Socialist Party did not collide with reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u126	Then they said Mr. Minister and Mr. Carlos Pereira: "But everything is already recovering. The government has given a lot of attention to the economy, it is with the companies. » Mr. Minister gave a description of the country’s history and the hearings made, said that everything is already being recovered and even mentioned the data of the recovery of the industrial production climate. And Mr Carlos Pereira said: "It is the very best, according to Europe! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But, Mr Minister, I have a figure 2 to show you — indeed, we have already shown it to the Prime Minister — that once again confirms that the Socialist Party is out of reality. This is because Portugal, according to Eurostat, is the only country that does not grow, when all our economic partners, when all the countries of Europe grow, particularly Ireland which shows fantastic growth. All our partners, such markets where we export most are growing. What happens to Portugal? It's the only country that doesn't grow!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u128	Mr Minister, aside from shyness, of the greatest message you can have, the truth is that the Minister has to generate confidence and credibility in companies, he has to give the markets some ability to realize that there are actually solutions, there are ideas in the Ministry of Economics and in the government to reverse this cycle.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u129	If you realize there's a Minister of Economics!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u130	All the data, Minister, deny whatever your proposal is.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u132	Mr Minister, until I can quote you what I read today in the morning. The Banco de Portugal says that the economic activity indicator was negative in May.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u133	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u134	You know what else you say, Minister? He says that this indicator has been falling for six months, in the six months of action of this government, in which the government says that everything is going well and improving and that everything will be different! It's Banco de Portugal that says this. Minister, who is wrong? Is it the Banco de Portugal, is it the OECD, which predicts low growth, is Eurostat, is the IMF, are the rating agencies or is it the government that, since you did the first study until today, six months ago about its governance, has never matched reality?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u136	You must understand that, Minister. He also said: 'We are not going to carve indicators, we are not going to be discussing tenths'. All right, Minister. We could be discussing these 131 measures, but they don't exist. We could be discussing those five axes and 15 measures that appear in the press, but I, reading the press, was worried about one of them, because it's very serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u137	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u138	I will finish, Mr. President. In fact, the question was asked to Mr Minister, who did not answer. One of the business problems is, in fact, financing and strengthening of capital. Mr Minister, we are going to take a step towards strengthening capital and it has no effect on tax expenditure. But if it has no impact on tax expenditure, it means that it will penalise access to bank credit.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u139	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u140	Mr Minister, if that is the case, it is the worst of both worlds! Mr Minister has not answered, but he still has the opportunity to say that he is not once again handing one hand and taking it with the other! Tell us, Minister. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u141	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor to ask for clarification. I remember that Mr Hélder Amaral will not have time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hélder Amaral, I could not stop asking you this question. I don't know if you've used all the time to not answer, because the question is, in fact, embarrassing for the CDS-PP. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The Member said that the PS and its Government had entered into the budget a value for GDP that he did not expect to achieve. Now, Mr President, tell me what was the year, what was the budget year in which the PSD/CDS coalition was successful in some of the forecasts it made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u143	It's been too long, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u144	I will finish, Mr. President. What was the year between 2010 and 2011, in which it was successful in some forecast—in the deficit, in debt, in GDP, in unemployment? He didn't hit any! He didn't hit at all any! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u145	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u146	Therefore, this must mean that you have been completely out of reality for four years, as the country has actually realized. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u147	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fundamental causes for the complex and serious situation that companies, particularly micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in our country are long known problems and have all been deepened and aggravated by the former PSD/CDS government. We have already mentioned the problems of financing, access to credit, treasury, the difficulty many companies have to think about and look at the future beyond the treasury, the cost of context, bureaucracy, not knowing what to tell... Deputies of lack of trust! What do you tell a micro-enterprise that did not know, during your governance, whether the billing system and software they had certified by AT (Tributary Authority) would be in force the next day? How can you explain to a small entrepreneur all the bureaucracy and all the delay that occurred year after year and that continues to cause problems with all kinds of administrative and fiscal requirements? How is the IRC Model 22 explained, the VAT questions? How do they explain the famous current account, which, at last, now appears, that for so many years was being demanded by micro-enterprises, notably by the CPPME (Portuguese Confederation of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises) and that is one of the fundamental issues that is being raised today in relation to the state and administrative simplification? How do they explain the issues related to energy costs, to tolls, which have aggravated the situation of companies in the country, or to the delay of communication infrastructures in the country? As they explain the problem of unfair competition, the abuse of economic dependence that has been practiced, and continue, by the large distribution and economic groups of the financial sector, by insurers, etc. Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u149	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u150	This is affecting the concrete reality of these micro, small and medium-sized companies of traditional sectors, not only in industry, but in trade, especially in local trade, in the restoration, in micro and small companies of services, in the construction, repair of cars, trailers. When we talk about the economy, there are parliamentary groups and Members who always look at economic groups and multinationals. We cannot allow the debate to be left aside by 99 % of Portuguese business fabric, by 80 % of the volume of employment, by about 60 % of the total turnover. This is what we are talking about, when we refer to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and the reality they represent for the national economy. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, who do not underestimate the nature and significance of the measures aimed at new companies and the creation of better conditions for their future, and stress that the pointed perspective is not to be affixed to the quantity and misleadingly propagate the wonders of entrepreneurship, to then drop the entrepreneurs into the « crusher » of a market dominated by economic and financial groups,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u151	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u152	...but, yes, to contribute actively to the future of new companies, to have continuity, longevity, ability to generate jobs with rights, to generate wealth and development. We want sustained innovation and growth, not "meat for cannon" for economic and financial power. On the other hand, we also do not ignore, or devalue, the concrete measures for companies and scientific-based sectors of high technological intensity, high quality and dynamism. We cannot conceal the reality of a vast set of companies, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that are outside this universe. That is exactly the concrete situation we referred to. It left a specific reference which the Government should take into account, which deals with the problem of the construction sector and with micro and small enterprises, particularly under the sub-contracting regime, which at the moment have the obligation to provide, under the Public Contracts Code, the bank guarantees of the sub-contracting and the safeguard standard which has been adopted here, in the Assembly of the Republic, on a proposal from the CFP, at the end of its term at the end of this month, which will raise serious problems for thousands of small enterprises in the under-contracting.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u153	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u154	To conclude, we want to reaffirm our position. The solution for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and the problems they face is not economic concentration and absorption by large economic groups. We do not agree with the strategic measures and options that the PSD and the CDS wanted to impose on the country —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u155	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u156	... I shall finish, Mr President — and now they are trying to reintroduce on the agenda of the political debate support, with public money, for entrepreneurship, for the tax benefits to the large economic groups, for the same past revenues that have caused the problems they have caused, which have brought the country to the situation in which we find ourselves and which have to be overcome by a political ruin and another basic option in economic policy. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u157	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are debating the economy and the companies, an important issue which the Socialist Party has dealt with, we think, with the political objective of helping to compose the image of the Minister, after the Minister has been classified as shy and discreet by the Prime Minister. The fact is that, at the end of two hours of debate, I believe that, at this moment, whoever has this idea will be sorry, because by doing, and using a little rural economic language, the proof of the nine is, in fact, nothing, since nothing has come out of the perspective of what is important to our companies. Mr Minister, you came here in the exercise of unfounded optimism, and I believe that, and we have already discussed this for more than once in the Committee on Economic Affairs, that optimism is important, but it is important that it be based on reality and Mr Minister has painted a scenario that does not exist in our country, unfortunately. The Minister denies all the figures, even the latter, which today came out of the Banco de Portugal, of economic activity, which has unfortunately fallen to all of us for six months, and the Minister puts you next to him. Yesterday he presented a package of measures we did not know, we thought that today would present some of these measures, but no, what we found is that all projections, all analyses of independent international institutions go in the same direction. There is a gap between what the Minister and this social-communist government say it will be and what the reality is. There is a divergence of numbers, of realities that everyone is penalizing, which is indeed regrettable. I also want to tell you, Minister, that this also has a reason to be, because when there are problems affecting economic activity there is nothing with you. Unfortunately for the Portuguese economy, the Minister for Economic Affairs does not send the economy. There is a problem in ports with a direct impact on exports, who has to resolve is the Minister of the Sea. There is, in fact, a problem, which is Portugal 2020 being fundamental to public investment, but who is not the Minister of the Economy, is the Minister of Infrastructure. More than EUR 200 million of credit balances from the previous Community framework must be returned to companies, but it is nothing with Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs, because whoever sends it is Mr. Minister for Finance. That is to say, we have here in fact a set of economic strangulations of the Portuguese economy, but they do not depend on the Minister, because unfortunately for us the Minister of Economics does not send and therefore cannot strictly solve any of these problems. This is not even to mention the position of the Minister with regard to the opinion of his colleague on Finance, who came to say that one of the positive differential factors in Portugal is the low wages and the amount of work done here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u159	In fact, we do not understand how this "marriage" between so many different realities is possible, among what some people with a solid academic journey said before they were members of the government and what they are doing today, which is a pity, which we have recorded. That is why I think it is worth concluding, Mr Minister, by saying that it is not a question of style, that it is not a matter of spell, that it is not a matter of assessing your shyness or the fact that you are more or less discreet, what you would like, Mr Minister, in fact, was that at least the economy had a shy growth, but we could not achieve that. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u160	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u161	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u162	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau on driving, for the distribution of a document.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u163	Please, Mr. Deputy. I'm asking you to hurry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u164	Mr. President, I will be very quick. I wanted to ask the Bureau to send out a document proving that the previous government forecast for growth in 2015 was 1,5 %, despite the doubts of the current Minister Vieira da Silva, who said that the vote against the PS was because that goal was not credible. The document shows that economic growth was even 1, 5 %. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u165	Mr President, let us get the document, which we will have it distributed through the benches. For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Economy, Manuel Caldeira Cabral. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I have come here today to Parliament to present several of the measures we have taken over the past six months. Measures of an ambitious capitalisation programme, the Capitalisation programme; measures that we presented less than two weeks ago in Porto with Startup Portugal; measures of a discussion in which we are involving all partners of Industry 4.0; measures, also in the area of tourism, which we have already advanced, important for a sector that is having good growth, but which, therefore, needs to be prepared for the future so that Portugal continues to have a better and better tourism. Measures also in the area of energy efficiency and what we are doing in terms of international links. Measures in areas important to companies. We have presented here what are measures of the result of a process we have participated in, in which we have heard companies, business associations, institutions of the various sectors, we have presented concrete measures, measures already implemented and in implementation, important measures for companies. What were we expecting? We were waiting for proposals, constructive criticisms so that we could improve these policies and we heard here some important and constructive proposals and comments, with concerns with small businesses, raised here by the Portuguese Communist Party, with questions about energy efficiency or with questions about Startup Portugal and the support that must be given to companies and the participation of workers in these companies. We heard, on the other hand, mainly a comment. Comments on numbers and a lot to look at the past. I would like to hear more about concrete proposals to improve our policies. [[PSD Member's protests.]] The concern about companies is about business policy. We have also heard here, on this side, often the words « lack of trust» and the discourse, the biggest speech of the Democratic Social Party’s bench, the words « lack of confidence » were repeated many times, was almost hammered, I would say. Lack of trust. This is the message they want to pass on to Portuguese companies and this message seems to be worth everything, because today there is no foreign investment in Portugal — it was said by Mr... [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u167	... there is not a single foreign investor who puts 1 euro in Portugal, said Mr. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u168	I wonder if Continental Mabor is a foreign investor or if he is Portuguese. It puts an additional EUR 49 million in investment here. I wonder if Faurécia is not a foreign investor, and it put here more than 40 million euros. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I wonder if there is not only one foreign investor who puts 1 euro in Portugal, when investments of EUR 90 million have been made this week. I wonder if this is not a lie, if it is not a distortion of data, if it is not such a lie to use and distort the data until they give whatever they want. We must have a sense of smell and a 'bottom down' policy must have its limits. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is wrong for your party to do this, it is wrong to have a policy of « bottom down». That's not how I want to make politics. That's not how I want to work with your party. [[PSD protests.]] I have always shown here, in the past, great openness to criticism, to constructive proposals, from which bench they come. But I cannot admit a position or that the policy of the major parties in the opposition today is merely to say that Portugal is bad, that it is worse, that no one invests in Portugal and that there is distrust of investors.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u169	Put your head in the sand!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u170	Who are obviously the other statistical numbers who didn't have the opportunity to say this,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u171	You've outlived your time, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u172	... from the growth of industrial production, both tourism and investment. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And I can give you a list of several foreign investments that have been completed in the last six months, which shows that those who lack confidence in Portugal are you and not international investors. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u173	We have thus reached the end of this first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u174	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u175	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u176	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u177	Is it really about the conduct of the works?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u178	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u179	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u180	Mr President, on behalf of the Minister's statements, I would ask the Bureau to send out the information which has just emerged from the Banco de Portugal in the Banco de Portugal report on economic activity in the last six months. The fall has continued in the last six months. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u181	It will be distributed, Mr. Deputies. Mrs. Members, having concluded the debate on economics and businesses, we turn to item 2 of our agenda, of which the motions for resolutions 4 / XIII ( 1 ) appear, without time for debate. ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in São Tomé, on 13 July 2015, 5 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United States of America to Strengthen Fiscal Compliance and Implement the FATCA, signed in Lisbon on 6 August 2015, 6 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in Lisbon on 3 June 2015, 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in Lisbon on 17 March 2015, and 8 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Barém to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in Manama on 26 May 2015. Before we move on to the voting period, I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau and the motion for a resolution No 14 / XIII was accepted ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Asian Bank for Investment in Infrastructure agreement signed in Beijing on 29 June 2015 which falls to 2. the Commission and draft resolution No 380 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures contributing to the reduction of costs with fuels ( CFP ), which fall to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u183	I use to inform the House that they are in the Diplomatic Gallery the Ambassador of Israel, Tzipora Rimini, the Ambassador of the United Kingdom, Kirsty Hayes, and, in representation of the Ambassador of the United States of America, the Counsellor of the Embassy, Gregory Macris. [[Upstairs, PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PAN applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can now proceed to the quorum check. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 211 meetings, to which it is added 1, signalled to the Bureau, Mr Bruno Dias, which makes 212 Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum for deliberation. Let us then begin the voting, beginning with vote No 99 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Despite the death of Sociologist José Manuel Package de Oliveira ( President of RA, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ). I call on Secretary Idália Serrão to proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u184	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic took note of the news of the death at the age of 79 by José Manuel Package de Oliveira. The life of Package de Oliveira was marked by a great diversity, having exercised the priesthood, career as a journalist and later the career as a university teacher. in Madeira, where he was born, he distinguished himself by defending freedoms, even during dictatorship, both within the church and in journalism. He graduated from Sociology at Gregorian University of Rome in 1973 and, on his return to Portugal, would become one of the founders of Sociology in our country. He graduated in Sociology, ISCTE, in 1989, specialized in the field of Sociology of Culture and Communication, in which he coordinated different international scientific projects and in which he left a vast work that is continuing in the work developed by the new generations of teachers and researchers who helped to form. Among the various functions he performed, Oliveira Package was a teacher in the area of Communication Sociology, at the ISCTE ( between 1977 and 2006 ), and was a member of the Scientific Council of this Institute, from 1989 to 2006, the year in which he retired. After joining the General Council of the University of Madeira, between 2008 and 2012, and the Strategic Council of the University of Minor, between 2005 and 2008, he was, since 2013 President of the General Council of the University of Interior Beira. in its passage through the Diário de Noticias ( of which he was director in 1976 ), the Jornal da Madeira, the Jornal do Funchal, the Commerce of Funchal, the Diário de Lisboa, the Journal de Noticias, the Journal of Expresso e O Jornal, and more recently the SIC ( of which he was commentator in the 1990s ), the RTP or the Public Journal, that he was the Provider of Telespector and the Reader, respectively, the Oliveira Package was noted by the general public as a serious and rigorous man, maintaining his concern with the tolerance and respect for the rules of deontology and his acremend of the fundamental right to information. It is therefore with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, indicates its death by conveying the most painful grief to its family and friends».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u185	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 99 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[The vote was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 100 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Condemning and regrets the attack by Orlando, United States of America ( RA President, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ). Mrs. Secretary Idália Serra will do the favor of reading the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u186	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last Sunday, the United States of America and the world woke up in shock. in the first hours of the day, an armed terrorist entered a bar in Orlando, Florida, making 49 fatal victims and 53 wounded. The attack was motivated by homophobic hatred and claimed by Daesh, although they are still to explain the real reasons. There will certainly be an internal reflection to be made in the United States on the conditions under which the right to arms wear is exercised. There is certainly a global reflection that cannot stop condemning, without hesitation, all forms of terrorism and all forms of hatred. last Sunday, we witnessed once again an attack on the freedoms and the right to difference that characterize the plural and open societies that respect human rights. This is our common ground of values and therefore, once again, we express our most sense of regret for the families of the victims and our deepest condemnation for this barbaric act against a specific community: lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. Once again and as often as it takes. We will not let the succession of these cases cause them to fall into oblivion. The repetition of such attacks cannot mean the indifference of banalization, nor the giving up of intolerant responses. Brutality and the quantity of cases should only commit us more to a comprehensive, non-violent response to terrorism that promotes security through freedom and freedom through security. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its most vehement condemnation of the attack on innocent citizens, expressing its sorrow to the families of the victims, as well as to the authorities and the people of the United States."
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u187	We shall vote on vote No 100 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[The vote was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, vote No 102 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Condemning and regretting the attack on MP Jo Cox of the British Labour Party ( RA President, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ), is of the following content: « Yesterday, June 16, MP Jo Cox of the British Parliament, elected by the Labour Party, was brutally murdered during a campaign session in the Birstall library in the city of Leeds. Jo Cox, 41 years old, married and mother of two children, elected by the circle of Batley and Spen, in the last general elections of the United Kingdom in 2015, was highlighted by their peers for their human qualities and for their professional commitment and integrity, interrupting, with their death, a promising career in defending the causes in which she believed. Although they remain to ascertain the reasons for the barbaric attack against the British Member, witnesses point to the possibility that the person responsible for this crime has shouted out words of order associated with the British extreme right. This violent act is, in all respects, unjustifiable and intolerable, being particularly serious in the context of the referendum campaign of the British people next week, which will determine the UK's stay or exit in the European Union, and that Jo Cox was one of the protagonists. The Portuguese Parliament does not, as such, involve referendums or electoral acts carried out in other countries, but it is not, nor can it remain, indifferent to a cowardly attack on the freedom and life of a representative of the people. If the political contours of this incident are confirmed, this act will represent an attack against one of the most fundamental democratic precepts that underpin all states of law, freedom of expression. Thus, at this particularly sad moment, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its unequivocal and vehement condemnation of the attack on the British Member Joe Cox, and expresses the feelings of our deep sorrow to the victim's family, his peers in the House of Commons, the Labour Party, the authorities of the United Kingdom and the British people'. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[The vote was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote: No 95 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Condemnation of the terrorist attack committed in Tel Aviv ( CDS-PP ). Mr Duarte Pacheco will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on 8 June, two armed individuals broke up, with extreme and barbarous violence, in the Sarona market, in the center of Tel Aviv, indiscriminately shooting at all those present on the spot. Four people died and sixteen were seriously injured. This blind attack is only one more in the tragic escalation of attacks on civilians throughout the territory administered by the Israeli authorities in the last eight months. The spontaneous and isolated nature of this type of attack makes its execution difficult to predict and even more difficult to prevent. Now, the panic and fear generated by this wave of cruel and unbalanced violence aggravates the climate of mistrust between the two peoples and undermines any understandings that tend to a peaceful and lasting solution. The practice of terrorist acts is always unjustifiable. There is no justification for those who take life from the innocent. The way to express political opinions is freedom and democracy, it is never terror and violence. in this logic, renunciation of violence and manifestations of hatred is an essential condition for the return of Israeli and Palestinian authorities to the negotiating tables. The Assembly of the Republic therefore strongly condemns terrorist attacks against civilians on the Sarona market, expresses its most sincere feelings to the families of the victims and urges the Israeli and Palestinian authorities to pursue dialogue as a decisive political instrument for a just, peaceful and lasting solution".
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u189	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 95 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u190	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u191	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u192	Mr President, to inform the Bureau that our bank will deliver a vote statement on the vote it has just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u193	Mr Carla Cruz, do you ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u194	Mr President, it is in order to inform the Bureau that, with regard to this last vote, we will still present a statement of vote today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u195	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. André Silva, would you like to speak for what you have done?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u196	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u197	Let us now, with regard to these votes, make one minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, with regard to votes 100 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 102 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) there were several proposals for votes which came to the entry of the PS, PS, and CDS-PP, but which were subsequently withdrawn on the basis of the proposal made by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, and I would like to thank this consensualization capacity. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue the voting, now turning to vote No 97/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Welcoming the recognition of the capacity demonstrated by the National Health Service ( SNS ) ( Members of the Health Commission ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u198	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote is of the following content: "on June 7th, a child with 32 weeks of gestation was born in the Hospital Center of Central Lisbon, which developed during 107 days in the womb of the mother, whose brain death had been declared on February 20th. This is a remarkable achievement of the medicine practiced in the National Health Service, not only because of the extreme differentiation and professionalism required and the risks involved, such as, worldwide, in a case where, for so long, a baby was kept alive in the womb of a mother in brain death. The Assembly of the Republic thus considers that the National Health Service, the Central Lisbon Hospital Centre, and in particular the doctors and nurses and other responsible and personal who have allowed the birth of this baby, are creditors of the general recognition and therefore also of the Members of the Assembly of the Republic. Thus, under the applicable constitutional and regulatory provisions, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, shall: He was pleased with the capacity once again demonstrated by the National Health Service, as well as by the professionalism and competence of those who work in it, who allowed the birth of a child with 32 weeks of gestation last 7 June, after having developed during 107 days in the womb of the mother, whose brain death had been declared last 20 February. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u199	Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 366 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Constitution of the Standing Committee ( Chairman of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 374 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Lyon ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the general vote on Bill No 23 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes a system for the reimbursement of fuel taxes for freight transport undertakings by amending the Code of Special Consumption Taxes, approved by Decree-Law No 73 / 2010 of 21 June 2010 and the General Tax Offences Regime, approved by Law No 15 / 2011 of 5 June 2011. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also generally voting on Bill No 22 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The second amendment to Law No 7 / 2007 of 5 February 2007 establishing the citizenship card and governing its issue and use, to the first amendment to Law No 37 / 2014 of 26 June 2014 establishing an alternative and voluntary system for the authentication of citizens at the portals and websites of the Public Administration called the Digital Mobile Key, and to the sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 83 / 2000 of 11 May approving the legal regime for the granting and issuing of passports. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CFP.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we are voting in general on Bill No 24 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 61 / 2014 of 26 August which approves the special scheme applicable to deferred tax assets. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote of the General Account of the State of 2014. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP.]] We proceeded to the joint vote of three requests submitted by the PAN, BE and Les Verdes respectively for the purposes of the projects of lein.o 111 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Inclusion of a vegetarian option in all public canteens ( PAN), 265 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the inclusion of the vegetarian option in meals in public canteens ( BE) and 268 / XIII ( 1 ). (a) — Vegetarian plant in the public canteens (The Greens) shall be reduced to the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a vote, for a period of 90 days. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The three bills are down to 7. the Commission. We turn to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 4 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in São Tomé, on 13 July 2015. [[When put to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP were voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against BE.]] We turn to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 5 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United States of America to Strengthen Fiscal Compliance and Implement the FATCA, signed in Lisbon on 6 August 2015. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and with abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 6 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters signed in Lisbon on 3 June 2015. [[When put to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP were voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against BE.]] We turn to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in Lisbon on 17 March 2015. [[When put to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP were voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against BE.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 8 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Barém to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in Manama on 26 May 2015. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against BE and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u200	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u201	Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u202	Mr President, it is to inform that on motions for resolutions 4, 6, 7 and 8 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a) the Left Block shall deliver a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-17.u203	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceeded to the vote on the replacement text on draft resolutions 117 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend Community measures to defend the planting of the medroneiro and production of the medronho pendant in the interior center of the country, northern Alentejan and in the Algarve ( PSD ), 193 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends recovery of production and processing of medron ( PCP ) and 198 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the culture of the master and production of the midwife ( BE). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 20 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — by reopening the health pole of Caldelas of the Custom Health Care Unit Living More ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the NAP Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. I recall that the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 22, for 14 hours and 30 minutes, with the following agenda: Question No 4 / XIII ( 1. (a) — On combating food waste — from production to consumption, required by the Parliamentary Group 'The Greens'. I wish everyone a good weekend. I declare the sitting closed. [[It was 12 hours and 46 minutes.]]
