ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. As you know, today's agenda includes, by marking the PSD, the general discussion of Bill No. 292 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Creates the status of low-density territories ( PSD ). Before we start the debate, I give the floor to Mr Secretary to account for the file he has entered the Bureau. Mr. Secretary ( Duarte Pacheco ). - Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 318 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Organic Law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August ( Electoral Act of the Bodies of Local Authorities ), in respect of candidatures by groups of electors ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission. In terms of file, that is all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Members, let us then proceed to the debate, in general, of draft law No 292 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Creates the status of low-density territories ( PSD ). To open the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u3	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate seems to be boring, spending and swindling, but it is inconsequential. 30 years of European integration and more than 40 years of democracy have not been sufficient for Portugal to correct the imbalances in its territory. Two thirds of the national territory, largely corresponding to the so-called 'low-density territories', are threatened with depopulation, dragging with it the abandonment of land and related productive activities, as well as the loss of critical mass necessary to enable projects and investments. We don't need to make any more diagnoses. They are all done and the conclusion we come to is always the same: the country has failed! We have a deeply unequal and fractured Portugal: a Portugal of the coast and a Portugal of the interior; a Portugal with hope and a Portugal in decline; a promising Portugal and a Portugal reducing; a Portugal congested and an abandoned Portugal. The country has failed and has not gone, it is fair to say, for lack of attempts. Both national creativity and European funds have allowed it, since the early 1980s, that successive governments have implemented territorial development programmes and strategies with the ultimate aim of correcting the asymmetries of the territory. We have seen the improvement of accessibility, the construction of collective equipment, the supply of industrial soil at symbolic prices, the creation of regional development societies or venture capital, the increase of incentives for the creation of enterprises and jobs, all measures which, among many others, undoubtedly, have had a very positive impact on the quality of life of the populations, but which have failed. They failed in their main objective, failed because none of those programs, none of those strategies was able to halt the demographic decline and the depopulation of rural areas and failed because none of those programs, none of those strategies were able to lead to economic dynamization that would ensure the creation of wealth and employment, indispensable conditions, as we all know, to the promotion of any lasting development. However, there is no single reason, I repeat, one reason for subjugating, to give up, even because this is a national problem that necessarily has to be faced. It will never be too much said that regional imbalances generate harmful consequences in the field of social justice, as they diminish the opportunities and prospects of living for those who reside in more disadvantaged places. It will never be too much said that desertification calls into question the preservation of our cultural heritage and deteriorates the environmental and strategic projection of the territory. It will never be too much said that the excessive urban concentration on the coast will inevitably generate economies that will aggravate the conditions of the urban quality of life of these same clusters. This is therefore a problem of Portugal, it is a problem of all Portuguese. And it is good to keep in mind that low-density territories do not want to be a burden, do not want to be a burden, do not want to be a burden for the country, so little want to depend chronically on state public welfare. The low-density territories want to be an asset and an opportunity for the development of Portugal ; they want to contribute directly to the growth of employment ; they want to participate actively in the process of social, economic and political modernisation that the country claims and have conditions so that we can build a model of development based on the economic value of its resources and its capital, creating and setting jobs. With the introduction of this draft law to create the status of low-density territories, based on the definition of the regulatory principles of their legal regime, we want to initiate the effective geographical consecration of these territories, we want to ensure that public policies and governance models of the most disadvantaged regions are outlined in articulated manner, including the State, local authorities and all growth promoters. We want to contribute to the implementation of innovative and sustainable solutions, generating economies of scale and the necessary cohesion for effective pro-activity in reducing asymmetries. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The creation of the status of low-density territories is not panacea for all evils, nor are they resolved in a temporal dimension less than one generation. This is a proposal that does not exclude others. This is an open proposal for development. This is the beginning of a path that will never be easy, but it is surely the right path. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u4	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to enter a period of questions - and answers are expected - for what I am going to give the floor, firstly, to Mr Pedro Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, first of all I would like to congratulate you on bringing to Parliament a debate on something that we consider of the greatest importance. Indeed, the dual development of our continental territory is a territorial problem and it is a problem with social consequences of enormous gravity. In addition to all the variables that cause discrimination — issues related to the distribution of income, access to culture, etc. , — another discriminatory variable has been introduced in our country in recent years, that of geographical origin, which is a variable which currently also produces discrimination. The question that arises today is how we have managed to deal with this situation which has been constantly worsening in recent decades and, in this regard, I would like to ask you a question, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira. Looking at the draft law which you are presenting and which is under discussion, it is verified that the map in Annex III is well representative of this duality that we live in our country, that is, most of our territory has lost demographic capacity and economic capacity to develop itself autonomously, and this has consequences on the populations, has social consequences. In fact, today, we do not even have a bipolarized country, what we have is a country that is completely polarized in a narrow territorial range between Setúbal and Viana do Castelo, which includes the two main metropolitan areas and which adds, in itself, most of the population, all the demographic dynamism of our country and also the economic dynamism of our country. The question I put is this: Mr. Member, do you think that your government, the previous government, has no responsibility for setting up this map? You have no responsibility in this gray, discriminatory spot of our country? In fact, this map was drawn up by an inter-ministerial committee in the previous term, but, as you know, there was no other consequence than that of classification. It is said today that this classification can have a positive impact in Portugal 2020, but what I say to you, honourable Member, is that the distribution of Portugal 2020 funds to this level has a business base, which is distributed mainly through businesses, precisely in the interior regions, in regions that you call low density, where low density is not only demographic but also economic and the business network itself, i.e. it is not enough to classify the low density territories in order to actually solve the problem of economic incapacity and demographic incapacity. In fact, the design of Portugal 2020 and all the measures taken by the former Government, in particular in relation to the public school network, in relation to the National Health Service network, in relation to the network of courts and the judicial system, etc. , had harmful consequences at the level of imbalances and regional asymmetries. So the question I leave you with, Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, is this: do the PSD and the CDS-PP consider that the previous government had no responsibility for what happened and that this bill appears as a sort of self-criticism? Does this bill appear as we approach autarchic elections as a form of PSD resigning, abrogating the responsibilities it has had in increasing asymmetries and all the problems of territorial discrimination we live? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u6	Mr President, the time you have spent asking your question will be discounted in the full time of your party. You now have the floor, too, for a request for clarification, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, first of all I would like to welcome the PSD for bringing to this House such an important issue as this on the issue of low-density territories and recall that it was the former Government, PSD / CDS, which introduced this issue into the public debate, as Mr Pedro Soares said. But the previous government has done more than that: it has promoted a genuine reversal of a process of loss of economic and social development of the interior, based on economic growth, job creation to retain people and the quality of life of these communities in low-density territories. however, despite the efforts made, we know that there are still imbalances, in terms of economic and social development, between the metropolitan areas and the rest of the country, between the interior and the coast. The CDS believes that territorial cohesion is fundamental to promoting a more balanced development, reducing disparities, avoiding territorial imbalances and giving greater coherence to regional policies and sectoral policies that have territorial impact. The current government, the PS Government supported by the Left Block and the PCP, already in its action programme and on several other occasions stated that the interior is a priority of the Government. Come on in, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because, as you will see, 'the letter does not say with the card'! Then, in addition to half a dozen rough measures that we have heard from the media, the government, although already in office for one year, has not yet shown a concrete policy to apply to low density territories and to solve, or reduce, the main problems of those populations. The Government in this area, as in many others, has only set up working groups as it did in the Government of Mr José Socrates, but has not presented a true policy for promoting territorial cohesion, with the implementation of measures to ensure that enterprises, services and populations are set up in these less developed regions. For example, at Portugal 2020, the former Government, PSD / CDS, intended to direct most of the support available, around 93 %, to the least developed regions of the country, North, Central, Alentejo and Azores. The current government, which talks daily about the application of these funds for everything and something else, does not clearly say that it will make a clear bet in the least developed regions of the country. In addition, in one of the programmes launched under the PEDU ( Strategic Plan for Urban Development ), the Government has already demonstrated its total insensitivity to this issue. I am referring to a sum of EUR 20 million for 29 municipalities, many corresponding to low-density territories. But the government, in an illegitimate way, allocated that money available only to seven municipalities and, they are afraid, Mrs. Members, none of them correspond to such low-density territories but, yes, to seven municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of Porto which clearly is not a low-density area. This is the concern of the Government that we have, and of the left, with the inside. Mr President, I would like to say to you that we, the CDS, agree with the principles guiding the draft law that the PSD presents to us, such as the principles of territorial equality and cohesion, coordination, decentralization and collaboration between government, autonomous regions and local authorities, fairness among all citizens and the creation of policies for the establishment of population and businesses in low density territories. That is why, Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, I would like to leave you a question which is simple in the formulation, but which has all the importance in what it represents for the country, in what it represents for these low-density territories. I would ask you, Mr President, if you believe in this government when it claims, very pompously, and almost weekly, that the interior is a priority. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u8	In reply, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. Mr Pedro Soares and Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, replying immediately to Mr Pedro Soares, who asked whether we failed, I repeat what he said : we all failed, Mr Soares. The country has failed. The parties who went through the government failed and failed the parties who went through the opposition. This is a collective failure, not by action of one government or another, but it is a failure of the whole country. [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]] However, Mr President, it is good to add that it was not due to lack of attempts, as I said here, and that these attempts had positive results in the quality of life of the populations. They failed, yes, in the one who was its main objective: to halt the demographic decline, the depopulation and desertification of the interior. Mr. Pedro Soares spoke of the past. However, the honourable Member has spoken only of some part of the past, not of the whole past. As Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco pointed out, there is another past, a past that tells us that the previous Government, the PSD/CDS-PP, despite all the difficulties known by the adjustment programme we have gone through, never ceases to place territorial cohesion in its governance priorities. I can give you many examples of this concern, Mr President. I would like to remind you that we have created the Team for Territorial Affairs and the Territorial Convergence Council; we have launched the Valuation Programme; we have created the Natura Network to value the protected areas classified — very important, Mr. Deputies; we have restructured the water and sanitation supply sector, promoting effective tariff solidarity between the coast and the interior and ensuring a fairer distribution of charges with the costs of interiority. I would also like to remind you, Mr President, that we have restructured and launched the air passenger transport services in the inner range, between Bragança and Portimão ; we have launched the Porta a Porta ; we have approved the Fiscal Code for Investment, which has introduced tax benefits in investments that have created or maintained jobs in low-density territories; we have approved the planning reform of the territory; we have proceeded to strengthen the municipal spill in the context of green taxation. [[PS protests.]] I also recall that we supported the creation of three centres of excellence at the University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, at the University of Beira Interior and at the University of Évora; we drew up a more favourable regime for obtaining residence permits within the EU for citizens of the European Union; we adopted measures for the establishment of doctors in these territories by granting remuneration supplements. Mr. Member, we also launched the + Superior Programme, with the allocation of scholarships to higher education students opting for establishments located exactly in the interior. Would you like another example, Mr President, to finish? in order to decentralize, we launched the program Approachar, creating and installing a very significant set of shops and spaces of the citizen, as will certainly recognize. But, honourable Member, more important than talking about the past is talking about the present and the future. That is why, given that many of the measures I mentioned here did not even get the announcement of the parties in the left parliament, the question posed in the present and in the future is whether, eventually, some of them — which had a positive effect on the fight we were fighting — will be reversed. And now, honourable Member, more important than making diagnoses is pointing out solutions. And, frankly, we bring here, to the House, a concrete proposal which, without prejudice to the others, intends to establish a stable regulatory framework and for the future which has a very simple objective: to contribute to having more Portugal inside and, certainly, less interior in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u10	Let's move on to the intervention period. To that end, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For a party like the PSD, who has supported a government that has spent four years doing exactly the opposite of what is now proposed, this proposal seems more like a sort of penance—maybe, painful, but it is still a penance. It is the recognition that, after all, the closure of public services essential to the populations, such as the closure of schools, health services, courts or the extinction of freguesas, represented strong contributions to aggravate regional asymmetries, to accentuate the depopulation of the interior and to abandon the rural world. For a party like the PSD that has supported a government that has spent four years firing public officials from the central government and imposing redundancies of workers in local authorities, with strong reflections on the quality of the services provided to the people, especially in the interior of the country, it is always well recognized the failure of their policies. For a party such as the PSD, which incorporated a government that has spent four years suggesting to people who emigrate, who come out of their comfort, penalizing, above all, the territories of the interior, it seems a little late to recognize that regional asymmetries and inequalities between the various regions of the country are accentuated. After all this, it is always good for the PSD now to propose that everyone be entitled to equal opportunities in access to development, employment, culture and quality of life, regardless of where they are born or what they choose to set their residence. After the Spring PSD systematically proposed by The Greens in the State Budget to reduce the rate of IRC (tax on the income of the public) for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that settle inside, it is always appropriate to propose that all citizens have the right to promote balanced development, to reduce local genesis disparities, to prevent territorial imbalances, to ensure coherence of regional policies and sectoral policies with environmental impact.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u12	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u13	For now, immediately, and on this matter, we see two great advantages in the fact that the PSD is in opposition and in the governmental solution that was found on the left. The first advantage is that the PSD has now begun to wake up to the great problem that constitutes regional asymmetries, the depopulation of the interior and the abandonment of the rural world. The second advantage is that the Greens proposal, which was systematically rejected by the PSD in the State Budget, to create tax incentives, through the reduction of the IRC rate for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that settle in the country, in the most disadvantaged areas, now starts to have legs to walk. These Greens proposals are not the solution to the serious problem of regional asymmetries, for the depopulation of the interior, but are, however, an important contribution to dynamising the economic life of the interior of the country and consequently to creating new economic and social dynamics in the most disadvantaged areas of our territory. On the other hand, as can be seen in the current Government Programme, it is assumed among its priority objectives to affirm the interior as a central aspect of economic development and territorial cohesion, promoting a new approach to the use and exploitation of resources and the specific conditions of the territory and border regions as factors of development and competitiveness. in this framework, and for this purpose, was created the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior and also defined its mission in order to, for the first time, define a national strategy for the development of the interior and territorial cohesion. Moreover, the National Reform Programme assumes territorial cohesion as crucial for the competitiveness and qualification of the national territory. This national territory has to be understood in its entirety, which naturally requires the mobilization of all resources present in the territory to enhance its use as an instrument for the establishment of populations and economic dynamisation, a logic of sustainability that enables the preservation and enhancement of significant environmental assets. And we, The Greens, will hope so! On the PSD proposal, it is interesting to say that the Greens believe that the proposed creation of a status for low-density territories may lead to the idea that a particular territory will have to develop by comparison with others. However, this circumstance can compromise what is fundamental to us in this matter, namely territorial cohesion, which, in our view, must be present in this approach and for which the proposal of the PSD does not contribute at all. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u14	Mrs Júlia Rodrigues applied for clarification, but Mr José Luís Ferreira no longer has time to answer. But you have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the careful reading of the bill now under discussion, on the creation of the status of low density territories, accentuates the mistake of always, i.e. studies, plans and diagnoses without objective results. A real territorial and comprehensive strategy has never been created and pursued with public policies of positive differentiation for the territories of the interior of the country. The Socialist Party, with the current Government, created a Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior, which prepared the national programme for territorial cohesion presented weeks ago by Mr. Deputy Minister, Dr. Eduardo Cabrite, to the Territorial Concertation Council for assessment. Everyone recognises the urgency of having a more equal and balanced country. The agricultural, agricultural and agro-industry area, the bet on regional products, Community certifications, handicrafts, biological products and forests, but also hunting and fishing are key sectors and true anchorages for the development of these territories. These themes have been forgotten in recent years of PSD / CDS government. I remember being a PS government that decided to locate the headquarters of the Regional Directorates of Agriculture and Fisheries of the North and the Centre in Mirandela and Castelo Branco respectively.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u17	This showed respect and attention around the interior, in it establishing decision-making centers important for territorial development. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the previous government, the de-investment within the country created a real social alarm, encouraging the relocation of services and the mobility of workers. Do you want me to exemplify with an exemplary case, which I know well? Here goes: in March 2014 the PSD/CDS government closed the Mirandela Agricultural Activity Support Laboratory. The Laboratory, built and equipped in 2007 with Community funds of EUR 2 million, was at the time justified by the importance of the agricultural and livestock sector in two of the districts covered, Braganza and Vila Real. He carried out 380 000 animal health analyses in the region and did a real support work for livestock and indigenous breeds, in particular. At the working meeting, the Inter-Municipal Community of the Lands of Trás-os-Montes considered — and I quote — that "the closure of the Laboratory (...) is a very damaging measure for the development of agricultural activity in Trás-os-Montes" and that, further "must be understood as a clear attitude of strengthening the institutions located on the coast, creating greater territorial inequality, reducing social cohesion and contributing to greater desertification of the interior and more concretely of Trás-os-Montes". Thus, the municipalities of the Intermunicipal Community of the Trás-os-Montes Lands decided unanimously on 12 March 2014 to request the review of the Government's decision « to close a service which is much needed to boost the development of the agricultural sector of the Trás-os-Montes region, which is fundamental to the creation of wealth, the creation of jobs and the establishment of the population". This appeal was of no use! On 31 March, the Laboratory was closed, the workers, many with more than 20 years of experience, had to terminate or be reintegrated into administrative services. It was all, even everything, transported to Vairão, in Vila do Conde : furniture, equipment, utensils. It is said, in favour of the truth, that even the soap dispensers of the bathroom were removed. Samples are now transported twice a week to the coast. The building is abandoned, lifeless and useless. A true « monument» to contempt in the interior! in the right hands — PSD and CDS — the real photograph of the interior of the country was this one: an abandoned country, without investments, without utility and less and less people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u19	A vicious cycle that the PS and this government want and will be able to reverse. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u20	Mr João Ramos of the CFP Parliamentary Group now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in discussing territorial cohesion, the depopulation, ageing and economic depression of many territories within the country, it is important to remember that these problems have a direct relationship with political options, and those of the PSD and the CDS in the former Government were not in order to solve the problems, but rather to aggravate them. Attacking public services affects with greater intensity low-density territories and with more dispersed settlement. Closing schools is killing villages; closing courts is increasing the costs for those living in the interior; concentrating health services is making it difficult to live in the interior; reducing the functioning of GNR (Republican National Guard) posts is reducing security and feeling of security, in particular older people, most residents in depopulated territories; ending fregetal boards is not only attacking democracy, ending up with the State body of proximity, but also eliminating an organ that claims conditions for the existence of life in considerable part of the national territory. in particular, regarding the PSD initiative, today under discussion, we cannot help doubt the real concern of the PSD. And the responsibility of this doubt can only be from the PSD itself. It is that this party, in 2011, failed to reach the Government, presented a draft resolution that gave rise to a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, in which the Government was recommended to develop and implement a « National Plan for Territorial Cohesion ». in the same resolution, it was recommended that the Government should " monitor and periodically evaluate the territorial cohesion of the country and the impact on the same policies, programmes and large public projects, including through the development of indicators of regional asymmetries and a report of the State of Territorial Cohesion and the implementation of the National Plan for Territorial Cohesion to be presented and discussed biannually in the Assembly of the Republic". You remember the ladies. How many reports on territorial cohesion have been discussed in the Assembly of the Republic? None! And it should have been two! And where is the plan for territorial cohesion, which the PSD proposed to do in 2011? Oh, my God! The CFP stated that the PSD project was « purely and simply a political fraud ». Time confirmed that the PCP was right.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u23	Interventions with this effectiveness exist several in the PSD curriculum. Let us remind ourselves of the promiscuity and collusion of the PSD/CDS government with the obscure Institute of the Territory, a private entity directed by someone who came to coordinate the PSD electoral program, assembled with public money, which called for the promotion of private business, without being well understood for it to serve. For all this, we cannot help but distrust the intentions of the PSD. To intervene in the low-density territories, acting in their problems, will not be without a break with the political options that have led to the current situation, and the PSD does not want to break that up, rather than deepen the options and policies that have brought us here. They well illustrate the example of what I have just said: options for more precariousness and less rights for workers and sacrifice of social security revenues as a form of incentive to the economy. Although now the PSD, in the context of proposals to encourage land use, points to the objective of increasing employment supply, when the CFP accused its government of destroying 150 000 jobs in agriculture, it said that modern agriculture did not need people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u24	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u25	The agriculture that has promoted workers need, but they like more Asians, who live in containers and earn little — the old paradigm of emigration. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] The occupation of the territory has always been a fundamental element for the production of wealth and for the promotion of national production. Concern about the occupation of the territory was a constant throughout the history of our country, also as an element of sovereignty over the national territory. Agricultural production needs the territory. Forests and forest management need territory and people. Mining wealth is extracted from people. Tourism needs not only people but also traditional products associated with the territories. Living conditions within the country are not only important for low-density territories, they are also important for the national economy and for territories with high population concentration. The problems of fixing the Portuguese do not have to do with poverty in the territories, they may have to do with the distribution of the wealth produced. Some of the main productions in the country are associated with low density territories: extractive industry and ornamental rocks in the Alentejo ; oil production, in which the Country is self-sufficient, in the Alentejo, in the Beers and in the Tres-os-Montes ; forest production with great importance in the Beers ; wine production, where the Country is exporter, in the major regions of Douro and Alentejo. We are therefore not, except for exceptions, talking about poor territories, although many so-called ‘analysts’, to justify poverty in Portuguese, like to say, with remnants of salazarism, that the country is poor. in its electoral programme, the CFP describes in detail its solutions: a country with territorial balance and economic and social cohesion requires a regional development policy that combats regional asymmetries, depopulation and desertification. This requires a wide range of integrated and regionally dynamized policies by a regional power from regionalisation, local authorities with strengthened financial capacity and State budgets supported by Community funds, with strong positive discrimination of territories with significant population losses. But it essentially requires economic policies that, in the current capitalist framework, can break with the single market logic in the allocation and location of material resources and human resources; an agricultural and forestry policy, favouring family exploitation and productions that guarantee the human occupation of the territory and safeguard agricultural soils and biodiversity, refusing large areas of intensive monoculture; a vision to reindustrialize the country, with the appreciation of the industrial transformation of the regional raw material in the region; a consideration of wholesale and retail trade distribution networks that intensify regional flows. These policies for productive activity need to create stable, well-paid and rights-based employment supply. It is about this employment and production that other activities, such as tourism and other services, can be anchored and expanded in a sustainable way and to defend the rural world. At the same time, infrastructure networks, equipment and public services (health, education, social security, water and waste, taxation, justice and security) and local and regional structures of strategic energy companies, telecommunications, transport and finance should be maintained and developed. This is what the country needs, but this is not what the PSD proposes. Overcoming this problem will imply that the government and its policies go beyond the creation of the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior. Many proposals and programmes have been announced over the years, but without the right measures. Without the allocation of means for this to be done, it will not be possible to solve the problem of regional asymmetries and territorial cohesion. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u26	Mr Norberto Patinho has signed up to ask for clarification, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Ramos, first of all I welcome the fact that the Democratic Social Party is concerned about the worsening of asymmetries and presenting a bill proposing the creation of the status of low density territories. However, it is interesting that you do so now. The current Government's programme assumes, among its priority objectives, the affirmation of the interior as a central aspect of economic development and territorial cohesion, promoting an approach to the use and exploitation of resources and of the specific conditions of the territory and border regions as factors of development and competitiveness. It was in this context that created the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior, with the task of creating, implementing and supervising a national programme for territorial cohesion, as well as promoting development measures of the interior territory. It's funny that you only do it now, because the PSD had four and a half years to be able to do it. however, it appears about 10 months after the current government has started functions, at the time when the national programme for territorial cohesion is expected to be approved, to propose a law that has had all the time — a complete legislature — to have it approved and put into practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u28	So the best thing is we don't propose anything else? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u29	And they just didn't do it because they didn't want to, because soon in the first parliamentary days of the PSD, in the previous Legislature, in September 2011, this theme was considered relevant, motivating a draft resolution. A PSD document on low-density territories defined in September 2014 an agenda that did not take advantage of while ruling the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u30	And not only did they not do so during the period of your governance, as the policies followed have deeply aggravated the problems inside, having increased asymmetries in the national territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u31	Tell me who you know!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u32	Territories today are listed as low density, in the most negative dimension of this same low density, which are with great responsibility of the right government: PSD and CDS have fed and deepened the problems of the interior. In contrast to the content of the project presented, previous governance promoted a serious economic downturn in the most depressed areas, increased impoverishment, did nothing against the degradation of demographic indicators, stimulated and encouraged emigration, caused a backlog in employment, reduced and cut in social benefits of solidarity, hampered access to health, significantly reduced the rate of lifelong learning—with greater gravity within—, closed courts, removed the services of the populations and extinguished phreguessia. It's been four years of croissance against local power and its autonomy... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u33	... and disregard for the proposals and opinions of the authorships and their representative organizations, making now the flag of proposals which during their governance did not accept and ignore. In addition to the inopportunity of the initiative, which emerges with a clear sense of party opportunism, this initiative is revealing a great capacity or, I would say better, skill, already demonstrated here several times, to now in the opposition propose the opposite of what they did while they were government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u34	What a sadness!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u35	I ask you, honourable Member, if, in this context, this bill is not a clear recognition of the failure of right-wing governance policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u36	That's an easy question!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u37	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u38	Mr President, Mr Norberto Patinho, territorial cohesion is not a failure, it is the result of very clear political options. I see that there is agreement on the idea that regional asymmetries are daughters of political options. So what we are waiting for, and we will do everything we can to make this happen, is that the PS government is breaking up with the political options that have brought us here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u39	Mr Santinho Pacheco spoke on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I was sitting on the parliamentary bench, very quiet, listening with attention and respect to Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira and I thought of a fellow of mine, Vergílio Ferreira, who liked to write down the books I read. in one of them, in front of a text with no great interest and no literary level, he noted: « What a hobby! Looks like Benfica's trophy room »! The description that you made of the measures taken by the previous government was that which reminded me of: a focus. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I thought that in these 40 years of democratic local power, I had already seen and heard everything about the interior, but the PSD always has the ability to surprise us. Those without political memory can afford to lose their shame and respect for themselves and their past. This bill, which spremly gives nothing, only happens because we are on the way to the elections and it is necessary to avoid collateral damage, to launch a strategy of good intentions. Then, because it is necessary to respond to the conclusions of the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior, the PSD wants to look what it has never been, when it led the government: the real party of the interior. Territorial cohesion is today a national emergency. Creating a status that seems more like a ferrete for low density territories does not solve any problems, but overcomes, accentuates the bipolar and asymmetrical country. A territory so defined is only a confined space, it is a kind of ghetto. PS applause. Low density does not, on its own, characterize a territory. And now, where are the very low-density territories that they promised in the last Government Programme? Before, it was the speech of the "little boy" of the costs of interiority, now they want to put on these lands a stamp that marks us or a seal that holds us back. This diploma also translates the formula of those who, discreetly, want to come to my forgiveness, without having the courage to confess that you have made a mistake, who failed the inside during the four years in which you ruled with the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All the articulates or aims to achieve objectives already defined in existing legislation or, then, is the pure transposition of rights entered in the Constitution. To make a bill to establish that everyone has the right to equal opportunities, cooperation between regions, economic development, well-being and employment, geographical mobility or that it is incumbent upon the State to support sustained development, to promote the increase in birth rates, to ensure the fixing of young people or to attract investment is as relevant and useful as a meteorologist to announce that snow is cold and rain wet. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the greatest mime of all this narrative made of common places is its main novelty and originality, article 27. the, on the closure of public services in low-density territories. You can only be kidding us! Those who have spent years decreeing the reform of the State knowing that reforming meant so much closing services in the interior or extinguishing fregueses need to have can to come forward to propose that, from now on, before the closure, a prior administrative process with opinions of x entities must be drawn up.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u41	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u42	Would you like more? Why have they lost four years to propose birth support programs? The same applies to employment, accessibility, investment support, the land bank, rural development, tourism supply. Finally, more than a statute for low-density territories, this bill before seems the inventory of what the PSD/CDS government should have done and did not, nor did, before, if it was again government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The RDP 2020 ( Rural Development Programme) which has negotiated, in areas such as accessibility, agriculture and the rural world, is well attested to. They can therefore use all demagogy and try the most obvious opportunism that no one will see on this legislative initiative more than the traditional escape to the front of those who failed and want to disguise the failure. on the contrary, the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior is there with very practical proposals to combat regional asymmetries. The territory must be an opportunity for a more cohesive, more competitive, more sustainable, more connected and more collaborative interior. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u43	Mr Álvaro Batista wrote to ask for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Santinho Pacheco, outside reality, shows problems that no government has been able to solve: the depopulation of vast areas of the territory, the significant ageing of its populations, the loss of jobs, the migration of young people to the coast, emigration abroad, the loss of income, the abandonment of fields, the recession. The problems have reached such a dimension that no one can ever deny or hide them, often being approached by all the living forces of Portuguese society. in low-density territories, there are serious problems that deserve serious and weighted responses, supported by responsibility, and this can only emerge from the capacity of dialogue and policy dialogue. On the basis of its responsibilities, the PSD has made the internal debate of these realities, discussed them with civil society and signed its willingness to make a real contribution to its resolution. As a result of a known work, the PSD also has a broad role of concrete measures that can be applied in low-density territories, but we believe that its objective is not to be used to play with others in the pages of newspapers. Avulsive measures can even pass well in social communication, perhaps to capture more votes, but the seriousness with which the problems of the country have to be addressed compels us to recognize that no summary of disintegrated measures has produced in the past results worthy of that name. Regardless of the decisions taken by the previous governments, tell the statistics and feel that people who are discouraged in the low-density territories have never stopped population depopulation, ageing and impoverishment. in politics, as in life, all the great works need solid foundations, and that is what this bill aims, which will always be of all those who want to collaborate in their works in defense of the country's best interests. We say it ourselves and many others. For example, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, which, by recommending the collection of the contributions requested here, gave a favourable opinion to the approval of the diploma. To reverse the depopulation of the interior, to promote the fixation of the population and to reactivate economic activity in low-density territories, we do not deceive ourselves, is a work for a generation. For the PSD, in this and all serious attempts to solve the main problems of Portuguese society, the consensus that Mr. President of the Republic has recently asked for is indispensable. As attractive as it may be for some to spend time at the service of customers to destroy what the predecessor governments have done, if all followed his example, future generations would surely be doomed to live surrounded by nothing more than engulfment and ruin. So, Mr. Santinho Pacheco and Mr. Members of the Socialist Party, I leave some very simple and direct questions: do they have the capacity to discuss and help improve this project in committee? If the avous measures have never solved the problem in the past, how can they solve it now? This project aims to enshrine in the law equal opportunities in access to development, regardless of the place of birth or residence, the reduction of local genesis disparities, the coherence of regional policies, the promotion of cooperation between regions and so many other principles that we all defend in electoral manifestos. Mr Santinho Pacheco, you and the Socialist Party disagree about what? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u45	To reply, Mr Santinho Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u46	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Batista, I begin by thanking you for the questions you have raised. I want to tell you, with all honesty, as a man from the inside, that this project is a huge backwardness. We have been going for years—and you know that—to fight against the concept of interiority, which would spare us, which would diminish us, to fight against the policy of the 'hatch-cheek in hand' and against this concept of interior which meant delay. The idea of Iberian centrality is now being launched...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u47	You got it wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u48	... which attempts to transform that area of the country into an economic centrality with a view to the Iberian market.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u49	You don't understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u50	Now comes the PSD to build this kind of ghetto that won't lead us anywhere! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u51	Mr Manuel Frexes, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us bring the debate today, a subject that tells us a lot — that of the creation of the status of the low-density territories. This is a subject which must, in fact, be above controversy and political and party disputes. What is expected of such an obvious and emerging reality is that this Parliament has the ability to focus on concrete solutions and, once and for all, to face the problem, which has the political will and the courage to turn our ambition into an action plan that addresses this matter as a genuine national design. No one has any doubt that we have a country at two speeds and with two distinct realities: a country territorially fractured between an abandoned interior and a congested coastline. If we asked the common citizen of whom responsibility is, he would respond, and with humility we recognize him: « Of all governments, of course. » How can it be solved? Some will say that by tax, others by the use of resources, others by investment, others by any other avulva measure, because there is no single solution. Everyone realizes that only with cross-cutting and integrated policies and on several fronts can we combat or mitigate the asymmetries of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u54	Today we are bringing a proposal that does not deprive anyone of, which is not a magic wand, nor is it the great solution. What we bring here is essentially an instrument for combating regional inequalities and encouraging social and territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u56	Looking back, we realize that we have already used mechanisms that have enabled us to achieve satisfactory results. I remember this House: what would it be for the autonomous regions if they did not benefit from a special status? What would happen to Madeira or the Azores if they did not have special legal mechanisms? in particular, what we defend is the status and not a regional autonomy, even because there is also low density on the coast. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u57	And this is what Mr. Santinho Pacheco hasn't noticed yet. We need the status! And we need the status to count on the help of Europe. We can only help the regions most in need if we have the legal framework that enables the allocation of incentives in order to treat differently what is not the same, which legally renders the positive differentiation. What is at stake here is a unique historical opportunity and perhaps the last one for the country to try to reverse the demographic imbalance it is living. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake is still a new approach based on an economic reason. We are talking about numerous resources and assets that are about to be explored and which are an opportunity and a competitiveness tool for the country. I'm talking about natural resources, agriculture, forest. I am talking about energy, I am talking about tourism, and certainly I am also talking about the cost of living, which is clearly lower in low-density territories and which, in some cases, are very well structured. We want to create the status of low-density and high potential territories. With this statute, any legislative measure, whether of Parliament or of the Government, can be directed towards this territory. This is the great novelty of the creation of this statute. The avous measures may be discussed one at a time, but the possibility of being able to discriminate against the territory by law is a historic opportunity. We have a first objective—and here we see what the previous government has done in this area—which was the unanimous validation by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities of a map proposed by the previous Government that defines the limits of this territory, which includes low density. A map that was also used not only for Portugal 2020 but also for the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u58	The map was made! The map says everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u59	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen! This municipal unanimity is absolutely vital for us to get somewhere. Without the agreement of the authorities, it would be unthinkable to introduce a reform of these. Now, a personal note that I want to leave in this House and in this debate: they are here, in these benches—and it is with joy that I say—some Members and some Members who, at the time, helped build these consensuss on behalf of Portugal and its municipalities. Political coherence is a very important value and defines those who are firm in their ideas and convictions. This is the time to show this coherence, even because, as I have already mentioned, this will be a kind of framework law, open, flexible in its implementation, but which defines the creation of the statute. This proposal is an opportunity and responds to an appeal from all Portuguese, who must appeal to any Member of this House, who is trying to save the country from this regional gap that has been created. And in our hands is the power to do something different. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u60	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Hortense Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u61	Mr President, Mr Manuel Frexes, I very much like to hear about the interior, but as much as I try to seek measures in this status I do not find them. And there is something that our fellows and all the inhabitants of two-thirds of the territory want to hear: concrete measures, action, because there has been too much time lost only in dead letters. This status is no longer more than a statute to stay on paper, to be beautiful for social communication, but it is no use to make a difference for the Portuguese. [[PSD protests.]] We want more. I repeat: we want more, sir! We want more, because this initiative is no more than an initiative that comes to the tow of the announcement of the creation of the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u62	A Mission Unit which has long been announced with serious work and which Mr has always tried to devalue. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u63	No, ma'am!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u64	In fact, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, which Mr. Members have already mentioned, it is clear that this proposal should be sent to the Internal Valorisation Mission Unit. Here it is! This work was being done and, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today in the Council of Ministers, the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion was approved, which contains measures that are based on serious, in-depth work, done on the ground, with the inter-municipal communities and that we hope to be able to discuss in detail, but with measures that make the difference for Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, we live in a macro-cephalus country, with a double coast of the interior, a country that has seen its asymmetries aggravated in these four years. I recall, as I can not fail to do, the end of tax benefits to interiority, the closure of courts,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u65	...the increase of the tolls to the interior. All of this, Mr. Members did, and even eliminated positive discrimination. Do you remember? [[PSD protests.]] I also recall other measures, such as the cut in social income of inclusion and the solidarity supplement for the elderly, when we have as many elderly people living in these territories as the blockade in the construction and rehabilitation of schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u67	These measures had serious consequences, and he knew that, for example, in four years, there were fewer than 10 000 people living in White Castle. Only in White Castle! in Guarda there were more than 10,000 people. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, enough demagogy! [[CDS-PP protests.]] We must move forward and we need serious measures, which are not solely in terms of those measures which, as has already been said, are already protected — and must be within the framework of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. We hope this House will analyse these measures and do a serious job, to dignify the Portuguese, who are waiting for us to do something for them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u68	To reply, Mr Manuel Frexes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u69	Mr President, in fact Mrs Hortense Martins has not yet realized the extent of the status of low-density territories. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] But, you're misinformed! It is that the status was born long before the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] Mission Unit was created six months ago, in 100. the day of this government, in Idanha-a-Nova, where it was presented with pump and circumstance. Do you know what you've produced so far? Does anyone know the Mission Unit measures? Zero! So far, you've produced zero! Because we don't know any concrete measures... [[PS protests.]] In fact, the Mission Unit report was submitted 15 days ago, but no one knows what this report contains.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u70	We want a serious job, we don't want a fireworks job!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u71	Madam Member, do you know what is important in this matter and that you have not yet understood why you are moved by political-party blindness? We just don't make this a battle horse! For us, all the measures that all parties, from the Left Block to the CDS-PP, propose, which can help build a better Portugal, a more balanced Portugal, are welcome! And they all fall under the statute; they fall under the measures of the Mission Unit, as do any other measures. But we cannot continue to try to balance Portugal with arable measures, with measures that are not integrated, which are not all oriented and focused on the main issue, which is to make Portugal a more developed, more balanced and fairer country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u72	in this part we agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u73	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, from our point of view, there is also a collective failure as a nation regarding this duality of our territory. But it must be said that there is responsible for this collective failure. In recent years there have been responsible for the measures that have been taken, which have led to the worsening of all asymmetries, of all imbalances in the lack of territorial cohesion. I would like, above all, to mention one aspect, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate, which is about to end, there is a huge "e elephant" in the middle of this Chamber, an "ephant" that is present, but no one wants to talk about it. This 'elephant' has a name: political decision-making capacity of the inhabitants of the interior. And that is precisely what the PSD wants to approve here does not give the people. The statute does not give people the democratic ability to decide about their future, to define their school network, to decide about their health care network. The people cannot decide what they want for their future. And this is the essential question that is put in terms of the development of our country and the greater balance of our country. I understand that the PSD, that the right does not want to talk about this and I also understand the Socialist Party's hesitation in this matter, but it is necessary to call things by name. Much of what is happening in our country today, in terms of this territorial duality, has to do with the absence of regionalisation, has to do with the lack of administrative decentralization, and none of you have been able to put this issue here in debate in the Chamber. The peoples of the interior do not need a statute, they need a decision-making capacity, they need democracy, they need decentralization, they need regionalization! And that is what you, over the years, have never wanted to give to the people of the interior. You do not want to give it and still want to « cover the sun with the sieve» with this talk of « status for interiority ». So what is needed is to solve this problem, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD protests.]] What is needed is to give people decision-making capacity. The inhabitants of the interior must have the possibility to vote in their regional bodies,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u75	... bodies which have the ability to decide on their own programmes for the future, on the distribution of Community funds, so as not to always remain everything, as has happened, on the coast and in the main metropolitan areas, especially in the Lisbon region. Those who have to decide on this are the people and, for that, they need to be given the capacity to decide, there must be the ability to vote, there must be the choice of regions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u76	We therefore believe that the basis for the great failure, which you say is collective, is the failure of the model of administration of the territory which you have implemented since the former Minister Relvas, which now extends and for which we do not see the possibility of change, because in fact the Socialist Party maintains the same position as that model. It is a model based on the CCDRs (coordination and regional development commissions), which are not elected, is a model based on the CIMs (intermunicipal communities), which are constituted only by sets of camera presidents, who, not having a supramunicipal vision, cannot have a regional vision. This is the model, a model for the withdrawal of competences from the authorities, a model for the annulment of the parish, removing its main value, which is that of proximity to the populations. This was the model that went into bankruptcy, which needs to be recognised, but unfortunately you do not want to. This is the central problem, this is the 'elephant' that is in the middle and that you don't want to see. however, as our recently graduated Bob Dylan would say, times are changing. Times are changing... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u77	... and we hope that they also change with regard to this issue of the territory, because it is not with panacea, it is not to circumvent the reality that we have managed to solve the problem of the interior, the difficulties of the inhabitants of the interior, such as concentration on the coast, desertification, depopulation, lack of economic muscle. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u78	There are no entries for requests for clarification, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the Members of the Social Democratic Party for bringing this subject so exhaustively presented to the debate, making a fairly comprehensive analysis. I will not say that it responds to the problems all — indeed, it has been assumed that it is not the answer to all the problems, nor is it the miraculous solution that will solve all the problems — but what surprises me, and more and more surprises me less — I say it with some sadness, is that whenever this House debate issues or problems on which there is broad consensus, instead of the various benches present proposals or, at least, show a good will, even if it is Kantian, what appears to be a mistake, a diversion of attention, a flight to the debate, a complete and clear absence of solutions and ideas. Let me tell you, with all sincerity, that this is a terrible service to the populations of the interior and to the territories of low density, and the fault is neither the PSD nor the CDS. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] That's not new, sir. All interventions focused on demography as the main problem. Now, here is a bench that in due time presented solutions for demography and birth. What was the result? The same as we have seen today in this debate: the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PCP voted against. After all, is there a problem in low-density territories or in the interior, as you would like to call, your best asset, what are people? There are no people! There is increasingly unpopulated territory, and depopulated territory is the sovereignty of the State that is not exercised. Where were the gentlemen? Members when the CDS here presented a set of support measures, for example at the IRS headquarters, for companies that are friends of the family, for the increase of parental law? [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] The gentlemen. Members may laugh, but if a company generates jobs and this job generates a family aggregate we will be helping to make the functions of State sovereignty (school, justice, health and social security) have more sustainability, they will have more critical mass. And it was exactly these measures that we discussed here in the past and that had the same reading and the same result as these that the PSD brings here. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] That's why I register and regret it. Mrs. Members, I can say that, yes, I think it is reasonable that the problem can be identified and classified, that strategic objectives can be defined, that one can think of — was said here by all the benches — that obviously there are not only the solutions, because any state policy, any legislative initiative, directly or indirectly, affects the interior. I could even say that, when there are times of crisis or when the state is in difficulty, it is the populations of the interior that suffer most. As a Brazilian saying says, « poor bread when it falls, always falls with the butter turned down! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is a fact that we need to look carefully at all solutions and all policies, not only seeing a miraculous solution to the inside. I think low-density territories need a lot of things, they don't need to be looked at as little people, with misery or with pity. What is needed is that a State policy takes into account a specific reality, which are low-density territories, but we can only be consistent and truthful in these solutions—and reality is dynamic, so solutions must be dynamic—if we identify the problem, if we know exactly what we are talking about, if we know what the deficiencies are, if we know what the problems are. For what? So that every time a bench has an initiative it can take special attention to areas where the difficulties are many. I want to say here that it is not only worse—and I pay tribute to the autarchs—because many autoarchs, from all parties, have been valuing the territory, have valued the human resources, have promoted the territory and today only one small thing is missing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u80	Just one thing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u81	...maybe to surrender, withdraw value from the good work that was done by a set of autarchs, who protected and held much of the territory that today would be completely abandoned. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u82	It is therefore up to Parliament to protect these values and help in the solution, and that is why I think this initiative deserves attention. I would also like to tell you that I am expecting at least one green route in the next Portugal 2020 programme to approve projects and applications for companies located inside. I hope that there will be an increase for companies in low-density territories, support for innovation and development, because there is also innovation and development in low-density territories that need to be supported, support for the connection of companies to technology centres, in particular the polytechnics and universities. All these matters deserve our help. They will ask: What have you done in the past? Someone said: «It is necessary to protect endogenous products». But has there been any government that has valued more the rural world, that has increased the income of farmers, that has put young people, innovation, critical mass in agriculture than the previous government?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u83	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u84	It's the only thing that matters! All you care about is that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u85	Mrs. Members, if they can do the same, the low-density territories are grateful and very pleased. So here I will be waiting to see whether or not in the next Budget there are measures to support low-density territories, either with toll or without toll exemptions. The interior needs accessibility. The CDS has always defended public investment that is useful and that it enhances local economies. We're talking last minute, we're talking about the links of the very investment that's made and that's just missing complementary, much of it located in the low-density territories. I am not asking for public investment in large works, I am asking for small financial investment, but with a very large impact on low-density territories. A fine mesh analysis is needed, consensus is needed. I could even talk about a case of obvious failure that goes through several governments: the IP3, a road that links two district capitals, perhaps two of the big cities with economic dynamics, which is slow to complete. There's a lot of government to blame. Maybe from the previous government, we had the good sense...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u86	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time, so I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u87	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, we did not announce this investment twice to fail it. But, being consistent with what I initially said, I do not want to blame myself here and I hope that in the next budget this work will be a reality, because that is to work in concrete, concrete solutions to a problem that exists, which are the territories of low density. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u88	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We will note next week the five-year passage on the publication in Diário da República of the resolution adopted in this House, on a proposal from the PSD and the CDS, which spoke of the national plan for territorial cohesion, the report on territorial cohesion, the implementation of the plan, the transversality and the integration of the principle of territorial cohesion, the objective and essential principle of the administrative reorganization of the Government and interministerial coordination in promoting territorial cohesion. All things said by the PSD five years ago, nothing has been done. The PSD was outraged by the lack of concrete measures for a 15-day programme, but nothing says about the resolution adopted here four years ago. It's extraordinary, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! It was well said by the PCP five years ago that when reading the PSD proposal, two phrases made of popular wisdom and criminology came to his mind: « the criminal always returns to the crime scene » and « the criminal prepares an alibi for the crime he has no doubt to commit ». [[PSD protests.]] Today, Mr President, here came the PSD again to the "crime site" to clear the fingerprints of what it has been doing for four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u91	It's a case to say, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, « Good Preach Brother Thomas ; do as he says don’t do as he does! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The problem is that you, who speak both in consensus, in statutes and in territories, do not have a word about regionalization and what is missing from the Constitution of the Republic. You who for years and years have run the interior of the country and the regions and territories of low density to closures, who have closed everything that stirs up, stations of the post, courts, schools, churches, churches, the very ones that were extinguished in a previous government process...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u92	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u93	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, the populations of the parish that were extinguished in a previous government process are now provided with articles of the PSD bill on the form and regulation of the closure of services. It is a monument to hypocrisy that the PCP cannot make clear. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u94	Mr Pedro do Carmo has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today the status of low-density territories, presented by the PSD, but this schedule could have another name, it could be called 'Sorry me'. in justice, there is the statute of repentance. That is the meaning of PSD scheduling. Mrs. Members, during four years of adjustment, the PSD and the CDS followed a strategy of impoverishment with significant impacts on the so-called low-density territories, where the consequences were most felt. It was four years of closure of public services, from the courts to the CTT, of extinction of the « rule and framework », of elimination of the transport of non-emergency patients, of cuts in public policies for persons and territories,... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u96	... of political choices enemies of families and their life options,... [[PSD protests.]] ... blind cuts with impacts on public school, National Health Service and social protection,... [[PSD protests.]] That's true, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. It has been four years of suspension of projects that are important for local and regional development—and look at how well I know them, Mr! Four years later, this schedule actually sounds like « Forgive me », a sort of desperate attempt to recover lost time. The truth is, when they had the opportunity to do so, they did not and did not want to see the consequences of governance within: the impacts of political options on the demographic curve. And, not content with this insensitivity, they still limited the action of those who, on the ground, could do something to mitigate the austerity, the local authorities. They were the ones who felt that. The truth is that the PSD/CDS government did not and almost did not let it do, but even with the undisturbed impacts, the authorities and local communities gave their best to resist your shock. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u97	When they were able to structure a response to the low density territories, to the interior, the option of the PSD and CDS was to do exactly the opposite. When you are in opposition, the PSD wants to recover the lost time, allegedly, with an integrated response. But no! Integrated response is what the government is doing right now, is what most are building, with the replacement of incomes,... [[PSD protests.]] Yes, sir. As I said, the integrated response is what the government is doing with the replacement of income, with the reopening of the justice services, with the enhancement of the public school and with a set of structured proposals resulting from a serious, solid work and with the direction of the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior, which will already be projected in the proposal of the State Budget for 2017. That's why I tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the timing of this 'Sorry for Me' is a measure of despair in advance of the Budget. And you know why? [[PSD protests.]] Do you know why it's a measure of despair? Because they're on their way to the city hall. [[PSD protests.]] They didn't do it when they could, they want to fix it now. the remedies we say 'no', but it is good for them to recognize that in the dose, substance and consequences they were even very bad with citizens, populations and low-density territories. Unfortunately, the interior has the memory of your indifference and insensitivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u98	That's why they managed to win the elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u99	"Excuse me" is welcome. It's welcome, but it's late. Of course we haven't been able to recover the damage that VV has caused in a year. Ex.s did in four years of austerity, but our course is different. Now, it's time to build, time to value, time to hope for the inside and for the rural world. It's a new time, our time, people's time! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u100	For an intervention, Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If this debate, proposed by the PSD, has helped us to draw the conclusions we have just drawn. For four years, four long years, we watched a government that did nothing, because it did a lot, but what it did was essentially turn its backs on a substantial region of this country. For four years, four long years, we attended a government that, more than turn its backs, betrayed a population and the expectations of this population. For four years, four long years, there were populations that emigrated, who left the country to find new places where they had work and the future. For four years, there were companies that closed doors, ended their productivity and abandoned their workers to their fate. For four years, we have lived the disastrous, fateful experience of not only having a government leaving us as a government that brought our hopes. It was four years that today resulted in the debate of the 'Sorry for Me'. Is it? Well, what we saw today was Members who are not from the inside talking about the interior and wanting to impose a statute which the interior itself has to reject. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u102	Today there is one thing that we have clear: the interior does not need labels, stigmas, stamps; the interior needs public policies that serve its designs. My hope, our hope, today, is that we could see the first subscriber of this proposal, who is the author of this diploma and the work of these four sad years, go to the House and the country to justify itself and to justify its work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'm talking about who's in the front row, quiet, quiet, as you've been for four years, I'm talking about Mr. Pedro Passos Rabbit. It is to you that I address these words, because in my land, in our lands, they have closed schools and courts, they have closed hospitals and health centers. And at that time, Mr. Prime Minister, who is here today the promoter of this initiative, said nothing and did everything so that we would fall into the precipice where we were already used to living. [[PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares' laughter.]] We need a country that has a strategy for the future and that this strategy for the future be led by those who think differently.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u103	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u104	In conclusion, I wanted to say that we need a country that promotes within public policies that serve its people, which bets on the inside decisively and with public policies, we need a government that also brings the cross-border regions as a bet on our success and the success of the country as a whole. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u105	To give the final floor to this debate, Mr Luís Montenegro, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate, scheduled by the PSD on an initiative which has been presented in Parliament for several months, was not a debate to discuss what each of us has done or not because of territorial cohesion. Not that we have any problem with this discussion,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u107	...how, in fact, was seen in the debate itself, but above all because the challenge we launched throughout the House, to all parliamentarians, was that I could look forward, to the future and see a reality that is in the day-to-day lives of each Portuguese who has a difficulty in having an opportunity to build his life project, whether his personal life or his professional life. We have brought this issue up, in fact, to look at the Portuguese, to the young people who are born and raised in territories where they cannot have the same opportunities as others who are born in other territories with greater favour. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a basic framework is our proposal, a basic framework which, regardless of the policies which each party recommends, regardless of what decisions it may have taken or which it intends to take, gives legal status to these territories. That is our proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u108	We need measures, we don't care!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u109	Mrs. Members, do you think that it is not worth to enshrine in the law a strategic concept of territorial valorisation that requires decision makers to meet the specificities of these territories in order to build good decisions? Mrs. Members, do you think it is not worthwhile for the low-density territories to be able to acquire this legal status and, on the basis of it, have a treatment that can discriminate positively against them in areas that can give them more competitiveness, to have conditions for the people to be effectively fixed? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone think it's by decree that people fix themselves? Does anyone think it's only with mere intentions that we achieve results? The story of the last 30 years speaks for itself. In 30 years Portugal invested a lot, well, inside and in low-density territories. Low-density territories today have conditions, equipment and infrastructure as they never had in the previous period, but we have to look at evolution and conclude that this effort had merit but failed to achieve the main result. The Portuguese territory does not have a level of harmonious development, there are more developed regions and less developed regions. And even inside there are more favored territories and less favored territories, and in these territories people live in these territories, there are people who want to have access to public services, there are people who want to bet, they want to dare venture into the land where they were born, in the land they chose to live and have a business, having an economy that can create conditions for the community to survive and develop.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u110	Just like they did with the tolls? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u111	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was this debate that we wanted to stop here today. The debate we held was objectively a poor debate and I want to say to you, without presumption and with the humility of being one of the 230 Members, representing the largest bench in this Parliament, which today there were many people who spoke here, and there were even people who spoke with great enthusiasm, who spoke with a loud voice, who spoke loud, but I have no doubt that no one heard them. That's how no one hears us! People who are at home and who want an answer for the future do not hear these speeches. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u112	Don't listen, but feel!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u113	The people who are at home and we represent, the interest we represent, deserve more, and you are able to do more. I know it's normal that there's a certain vertigo of power,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u114	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u115	...of whom today you have the possibility to decide. This vertigo, moreover, is no longer exclusive of the Socialist Party, it is today very clearly evident in the interventions of the PCP and the Left Block. The PCP and BE, like the PS, today have to deal with the ability to change things, with the merits and proposals but also with the agrarians of the rulers and decision makers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u116	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u117	I will finish, Mr. President. But at the end of this debate I see that you are seeing with very short glances, you are looking only at the small interest that you think it is the one that will value you more in the future, but people will not forgive us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u118	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u119	... the country will not forgive us that we do not have the ability to make here a minimum pact, a pact for the young people of Portugal, in the future, they can have all the same opportunities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u120	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u121	That is the main issue, that is the focus of the debate. Do we want or not a society where everyone has the same opportunities, regardless of where they live, where they were born or the economic condition of their families? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-13.u122	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate scheduled for today. I want to announce to the ladies and gentlemen. Members the presence in the main gallery of the President of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, José Lino Tranquada Gomes. [[PSD (on foot), PS, CDS-PP (on foot), PCP and PAN applause.]] I would also like to recall the invitation to all to be present at the opening of the exhibition on the 40 years of autonomy, which will take place at the end of the plenary meeting. The next meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the following agenda: elections for the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents, for the President of the Economic and Social Council, for a Secretary of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic and for the Council of Radio and Television of Portugal, SA. We shall then proceed to the fifteenth-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( 2 ( b ). that of the Rules of Procedure, after which the votes of the Rules of Procedure shall be taken. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 48 minutes.]]
