ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the authorities to open the galleries. We will continue with the discussion, in the specialty, of Bill No. 37 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017. As you know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, we will discuss the rules of law, being allocated 5 minutes for the purpose of each parliamentary group, the NAP and the Government. The vote is followed by the vote on the Rules of Procedure and the articles and amendments to the Rules of Procedure referred to the whole. Finally, we will continue with the debate, in particular, on the proposal for a law. We will certainly have a very busy morning, so I asked that, at this first point, the time allocated should not be exceeded. In the meantime, I ask Ms. Secretary Emília Santos to report the file received.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions 550 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the necessary mechanisms for the construction of the new EB2 / 3 high school in Lumiar ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 551 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary ECJ course for judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is waiting for registrations to start the work. I remember that we'll have a pretty busy morning, so ask for some speed. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, access to water, which is essential to life, must be ensured, in particular through affordable costs. The municipalities, in exercising their autonomy, must be able to define the rates to be applied without being subject to the taxes of ERSAR ( Regulatory Authority of Water and Waste Services ). These recommendations do not lead to the reduction of the water tariff, but they contribute to its increase and, in terms of social tariffs, are limited only to the exemption of the availability rate. Some municipalities have proposed social water and waste rates in their regulations with criteria that provide discounts for low-income people who have been refused by ERSAR. The CFP considers that only by amending the Statutes of ERSAR, withdrawing from it powers and powers to fix tariffs can water costs be lowered by restoring autonomy to municipalities to define their own solutions, which will naturally be more advantageous and compatible with the access of all to this good. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u5	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal is one of the countries of the European Union with fewer nurses per inhabitant. Only 6, 1 nursing professionals per 1000 inhabitants, when the European average is 8, 4. We are also the third country with the worst ratio of nurses per doctor, being only 1, 4. We are therefore faced with a problem that worsened during the PSD/CDS government when 4400 professionals were lost in the National Health Service and when emigration became the main option for many people who were so lacking in this country. Against this problem, the Left Block presents the solution: we propose an addendum to the State Budget, ensuring that, next year, the extraordinary recruitment of nurses to the National Health Service will take place. This is a fundamental measure that meets the needs of the National Health Service and we are sure that, with its approval and implementation in 2017, we will be able to build a better SNS for all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u7	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS presented a proposal yesterday to strengthen the number of security forces and services officers. We have done so, as we said then, because we believe that security should continue to be a priority and that it would be important for the State to honour the said word, in particular with regard to the invitation to tender opened by the former Government for the admission of 800 new agents to the PSP so that it could also fulfil the status which the former Government agreed with the socio-professional associations and which this Government has confirmed. We therefore made a proposal which was not more or less than putting back what had been agreed upon. In other words, 800 new agents were expected to be admitted, but this government unilaterally, and against legitimate expectations, reduced that number to 300. We proposed that the remaining 500 vacancies be restored so as to honor the word given. Unfortunately, and it is good to be very clear, Left Block, PCP and PS voted against and PSD abstained. It seems clear to us that the priorities are very clear, and that anyone who wants the country, in fact, to continue to be secure and to have prestigious security forces and to whom this seems absolutely irrelevant. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u9	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is still waiting for inscriptions so that we can continue the debate. Otherwise, we shall proceed immediately to the vote. [[Pause.]] On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the CFP, once again, comes here talking about operational assistants, starting with saying that the public school has suffered severe attacks on right-wing policy, particularly by the hand of the PSD and the CDS. We well remember the bleeding of 27 000 teachers and 23 000 operational assistants throughout the Public Administration between September 2011 and September 2015. [[Protests by PSD Deputies Duarte Filipe Marques and Amadeu Soares Alberaria.]] The situation in schools is known to be very difficult as to the lack of non-teaching staff. This is a problem that is not of today, but has been aggravated by this policy of attack on public school. What we propose is that the government, in the evaluation of the ratio, consider aspects such as the specific needs of students with special educational needs, the security conditions of schools, the normal functioning of school facilities and support services. So, what we've seen again propose is the review of the ratio of the operational assistants as a measure of appreciation of the public school. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u11	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was the first day of voting on this budget in the specialty and on which, among other proposals, amendments to the pension system were adopted. After four years in which the country has attended pension cuts and in which more cuts or freezing had been promised, on the first day of voting in the speciality of the State Budget we have not only approved the maintenance of automatic updating of pensions, extending the updated value automatically every year up to €844, as we guarantee that, contrary to what happened in recent years, the overwhelming majority of Portuguese pensioners will have a real increase in their purchasing power. What this budget comes to do is introduce normality, decency and predictability in the lives of pensioners. The Socialist Party presents an integrated, coherent strategy, which is all the opposite of what has happened in the past four years. The Socialist Party soon recognized in 2016 the priority of combating the poverty of the elderly, ending with cuts made by PSD and CDS in the solidarity complement for the elderly, and in 2017 we deepened this strategy. In 2016, we rejected the normality in updating pensions and in 2017 we extended this automatic update up to €844. We will correct an injustice concerning the last few years in which PSD and CDS, consistent with their vision privatizing social security, which defends only one State of social minimums, looked only for the minimum pensions of 1. The ladder, forgetting all the others. The commitment of the PSD and the CDS for four years, and to which they would do for four more years, shows clearly what the purposes of these two parties are: the privatization of social security, the total disregard of contributing careers and the only one in a logic of social minimums. The years 2016 and 2017 show that there is an alternative and that this government and the majority that supports it are implementing it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u13	Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD proposed yesterday the establishment of a committee consisting of 12 specialists to prepare a study within 180 days and help us reflect on the structural reform of social security that the country needs. The Socialist Party, the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Greens refused to establish this committee. Mr President, you can continue to say that there are no imbalances in social security. They may continue to insist on the illusion that it is possible, year after year, to increase pensions without any repercussions in the future. They can continue, but the PSD will always insist on this idea of the future, of society. We know that the Socialist Party usually rules for the immediate, but this is a question of the future for the new generations! We must tell taxpayers, now and in the future, that social security will have money to pay for the reforms. Mr President, to refuse this reform is to refuse a discussion with the country. We're going to be blind about this problem. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u15	Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, 30 years after what was the first legal attempt to eliminate architectural barriers, the difficulties, limitations and impediments felt by people with disabilities in access to public buildings and to move within their towns and cities remain. It is therefore necessary to make the necessary architectural changes and adaptations so that the mobility of disabled people is guaranteed and the remaining obstacles are eliminated at once. This is exactly the proposal presented by the CFP today and this is the way forward. We also refer to a proposal adopted yesterday unanimously and which equates sports merit awards in paralympic tests with Olympic tests. This is about valuing the sports performance of paralympic athletes in various trials, championships and also in the Paralympic Games. It is a proposal that indicates a change in this area, which puts an end to a situation of discrimination and exclusion and in which constitutional principles are met. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u17	Mr José Moura Soeiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u18	Mr President, it is curious that the PSD, which said that it wanted to increase pensions, has come here to defend a proposal on the alleged sustainability of social security, whose assumption is that pensions cannot be increased because this calls into question the sustainability of social security, in the same way that they refuse the tax on luxury heritage, which rightly aims to bring new sources of funding for social security. We are clear about the proposals on the right in relation to pensions and the hypocrisy that has been your speech in recent days. I would like to talk about the approval of the Left Block proposal for the self-employed contribution scheme. The adoption of this proposal will finally bring justice to the self-employed and their contribution scheme, clarifying and implementing aspects of legislative authorisation, to ensure that the reference period for the contributions of these workers takes into account the incomes of the last three months at most, and that it is created, implements and approves this mechanism of continuity of the contribution career so that when people do not have income they will pay a symbolic value of €20 which will then be discounted in the contributions of the months in which people have income, thus ensuring that they do not have holes in the contribution career. It is a measure of greater importance for these workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u19	The Bureau is awaiting further registrations for the debate. [[Pause.]] I would ask the parliamentary groups not to make these waiting arrangements. For a program like what we have this morning, it's something of little rational. Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to this point of discussion and are already in a position to confirm some data that we consider important. We can confirm, for example, that this State Budget consolidates the intention of blocking the path followed for four years by the PSD and the CDS to weaken the social state. We can confirm, for example, that there are no proposals in this budget for wage cuts, no proposals for cuts in reforms and pensions, no proposals for redundancies from central government workers, no proposals for imposing redundancies from local government authorities. And there are no proposals to remove the rights to whom you work. It's none of this that's on the table for discussion. We also do not discuss the conformity of the State budget with the constitutional text, nor do we even discuss interferences of the central power in the autonomy of the local power. That time is coming. But it wasn't just the time that changed, in good rigor it changed a lot. Until the verb changed: from the verb « cut» we passed to the verb « return », from the verb « remove» we passed to the verb « put back», and the verb in this context makes all the difference, especially for people. In fact, as much as it costs some, the truth is that people continue to recover from changing the central verbs of this Budget. People continue to recover what they have lost with the previous government and we can even discuss whether returns are sufficient or not and whether we could go further, but we always talk about resting. We can discuss whether or not everything is in place, whether it's enough or not, but we always talk about getting it back. It is true that not everything is in place, which is not enough, but also, we agree, the cuts imposed by the PSD/CDS government have been of such order that they do not make the task easy. Therefore, if there is still much to recover and rest—and there is indeed because people deserve much more—it is because it was also a lot that was withdrawn by the PSD/CDS government. The damage was indeed very heavy. With regard to the proposals for plenary today, the Greens follow the Socialist Party's proposal to combat job insecurity, which is, in fact, a fight that is imposed and where the State has to set an example in order to remove falsehood and lies in labour relations. It is even healthy that the State should set an example, to better demand that the private sector also do so, i.e. to comply with the law. We also follow the Left Block both in the proposal that it seeks to change the contribution regime of self-employed workers and in the need to undertake the exceptional recruitment of nurses, because it is a proposal that will prevent the use of precarious work and at the same time satisfy the needs so felt in the area of health on the part of these professionals. Finally, we accompany the Portuguese Communist Party in its proposal concerning operational assistants in schools, because we are also aware of the shortage of these professionals, which are an essential pillar for the desirable functioning of schools and, in addition, this proposal can put a brake on the immorality with which successive governments have sought to remedy the problem by helping themselves with precarious work. On the proposal of the Portuguese Communist Party for the elimination of architectural barriers, I want to say the following: The Greens also presented a proposal in this sense, until it is an ancient battle of ours, which, over the years, has led us to systematically present proposals for amendments in the budget of the State. In fact, despite the fact that three decades have passed since efforts were made to eliminate architectural barriers through legislation, the fact is that there is still a great deal left to be done to comply fully with the legal diplomas on the subject, which continues to call into question the access of people with reduced mobility, especially access to public buildings. In conclusion, I wanted to leave two notes on the PSD and CDS proposals. As for the extraordinary update of pensions, I ask the question: why is it extraordinary? Answer: because during the PSD and CDS government there were no updates, no extraordinary or ordinary; not even red lines. There were updates of minimum pensions and, nevertheless, not all. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u21	And for those who have spent four years cutting reforms and pensions, it is always good to express concern about those who have been ignored or even punished for four years. More: to make faith in the PSD Government and CDS programme, there would be more than 700 million euros of pension cuts. But we are already getting used to this whitening effort and even this curious act of contribution by the PSD and CDS. Therefore, I am glad that they are now in the opposition, because at least they give the air to those who are very concerned about the value of pensions. If they were in the government, we would probably now be discussing the 700 million euro cut from its Government Programme. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u22	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, articles and proposals will be voted on in the area of the authorities on which we have put forward proposals for strengthening the democratic local power, for the provision of various instruments and mechanisms that enable the authorities to increase their capacity to intervene in the strengthening of workers' rights and in solving specific problems. We propose the introduction of an article aimed at the application of principles of sound and sound management of public finances, giving municipalities the possibility of resorting to credit operations for the acquisition of the goods concerned where the updated value of the new operation is less than that of the similar lease. We propose the suspension of transfers from municipalities to the Municipal Support Fund, taking into account its revision, we propose the elimination of the taxes to municipalities that are violating autonomy within the framework of the PAEL (Local Economy Support Programme) and the amendment of the Local Finance Act, so that the depreciation of outstanding loans does not contain for the calculation of the average amortization of medium- and long-term loans. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u24	Mr João Galamba of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party has decided today to advocate a proposal to which the PSD has decided to give the name "subjection of duties of transparency and responsibility". in fact, this proposal is very transparent, if not even crystalline, but a 'i' is missing in the word responsibility, because if there is something this proposal shows is a path that the PSD has been doing since the beginning of the year in relation to the General Deposit Box that can be summarized in the following sentence: to throw the confusion, disturb and try to do everything possible to make it all go wrong. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To realize that this is how we do a little chronology. After leaving the Government and doing nothing about the General Deposit Box, pushing under the carpet the problems of the Box and not taking care in particular of an urgent need to clarify the possibility of the public recapitalisation of the Box, because if it was not possible, what was on the horizon of the General Deposit Box was the resolution of the Bank or its privatisation, and we fully understand that this is what Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. PSD Members, in the midst of a difficult negotiation between the Government of the Portuguese Republic and the European Commission to enable the recapitalisation of the public bank, what have they done? They announced the establishment of a committee of inquiry. To know the truth? No, to throw confusion and disrupt the recapitalisation process. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has already acknowledged that everything was not right in this process, but if there is something the PSD did it was to ensure that it would run the worst possible. Yesterday, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we have had the supreme example of this hypocrisy, an information which has been known for months: the government has been trying to find out whether the business plan that the future President of Caixa proposed was compatible with European laws or not. What did the PSD do? He invented a meaningless storyteller. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you do not want transparency or are concerned about wages, because if you were worried about wages you would not have Sérgio Monteiro selling the New Bank for €30,000 nor would you have Stock de Cunha managing a transition bank for €25,000! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is something that does not exist in PSD behavior, it is serious. And if they wanted transparency, they did not present the proposal that you presented here, for the simple reason, as the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has already said, that the current legal framework provides for this transparency that you say you want. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they don't want anything they say they want and they want exactly the opposite. They are transformed into a small party of partisan guerrillas in which the only thing that interests you is to interrupt a process that, of both: either you would never be able to drive or would not drive it because your real purpose is to ruin to privatize, as they did, in many other areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u26	Mr António Leitão Amaro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Now, Mr. João Galamba ; yesterday, António Costa. Let us see what Antonio Costa says: « In the Box is the opposition he wants to create controversy». What a can! Who said in February that there was a EUR 1800 million hole in the Box that did not exist? The government! Who appointed an administration which was plunged by the ECB? The government!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u28	Chumbada? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u29	Who chose administrators who were sent to school before going to school? The government! Who tripled the salaries of the Box administrators? The government! Who created a custom law, with the exception, so that all the rules of the Statute of the Public Manager will not be applied to the Box administrators? The government! [[PS protests.]] Who said that the recapitalisation of the Box was urgent, an immediate need?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u30	And it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u31	But it's been a year and not in the next five months. Who promised and delayed? The government! Who put the vice president of a competing bank, shareholder of a competing bank, representing the Portuguese State or moving in the affairs of the public bank, dealing with its recapitalisation and receiving privileged information while he was the vice president of the competing private bank? Who was it? The government! [[PSD applause.]] That's right! But also, who was accused by the former administration, the deceased, of stopping the Bank because it did not provide guidance in its acting role? The government! Who has heard in recent weeks the Portuguese entrepreneurs say that the Box is stopped because the government doesn't decide? The government! Who created these controversys? The government! It's an indignity what you're doing to the Box, it's a shame! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] You want to have the country and the opposition shut up in front of your assholes. You guys want to nibble your buttocks. But the country doesn't excuse you. [[That's what's missing!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u32	It is time to put an end to this indignity, to these ashtrays in the General Deposit Box. And by the way, it's time for Antonio Costa to stop hiding. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u33	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what has happened with the General Deposit Box is absolutely regrettable. Since this government has been in office that does not discuss the essential: the mission of the General Deposit Box, for the purpose of serving the public bank, its mission to support Portuguese business fabric and families and what of differentiator must have a public financial institution. This is what the CDS has always defended: the existence of a public financial institution, a public bank, aimed at SMEs and Portuguese families, allowing them to have a mission that distinguishes them from other commercial banks. Well, that stopped arguing. The government began by saying that it was absolutely essential to capitalize on the General Deposit Box and that this was unacceptable. Now, what was unsuited was no longer done in 2016 and has already moved to 2017. But in the end, if the European Commission has accepted the Government's proposals, if it is available for the capitalisation project and if it does not affect the deficit, then why is that not done? That was important to discuss right now. And the only ones interested in not making this discussion, which is the essential discussion, are those who have political responsibilities, it is the government. the government is interested in all this controversy that has been generated. [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] And the government is not only interested in the controversy as it has promoted it, because it was the government that introduced all the noise, the noise of remuneration above the acceptable and the noise of lack of transparency also totally unacceptable in democracy. The CDS has a clear position on this: it has put forward proposals to limit wages and to meet the most basic obligation of transparency in democracy, i.e. the disclosure of administrator income declarations. Let these matters be settled once and for all, to discuss why the government cannot execute what it said was unsuited! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u35	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block has a very different view than the PSD on justice and wage inequalities. PSD does not see any problem in Mexia earns 2, 5 million euros / year. PSD does not see any problem in Catroga earning half a million euros / year on EDP. And there is also no problem with bringing these wage inequalities that exist in the private sector into the state. That is why PSD thinks it is normal and acceptable for Sérgio Monteiro, because he was a cashier, he earns €30 000 to go sell the New Bank to Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u38	And that's why PSD thinks it's normal and acceptable for Stock from Cunha to earn €25 000 to sell the New Bank. And that's why the PSD finds it normal and acceptable that Fernando Pinto, administrator of a public company that had even damaged, won 30 000 € / month in front of the TAP. PSD and CDS have no problem where an administrator running an enterprise in the public sphere earns, during his term of office, one or two hundred years of an average salary of a Portuguese worker. It is not the pay difference, it is not the question of wages that worries the PSD, because it is not a matter that the PSD takes seriously. But we take this matter very seriously. We therefore put forward here a proposal to limit the salary of public administrators to the Prime Minister's salary, which is the person with the most executive responsibility in our country. And when it was confronted with a proposal that, in fact, limited wages and did not allow to pay €30 000 to Sérgio Monteiro, €25 000 to Stock de la Cunha or €30 000 to Fernando Pinto the PSD voted against,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u39	Don't! That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u40	... because you do not care about the limitation of wages. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] We take the limitation of wages very seriously, but we also take the requirements on transparency very seriously. The need for transparency is public... [[Continued protests by PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares.]] Sir, excuse me for shouting, it is not necessary. As I said, the need for transparency, which exists today, is public and must have a response. And never will the Left Block refuse to respond to transparency requirements on any public administrator, regardless of who appointed it. We will therefore always vote in favour of proposals that require more transparency for any public administrator. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u41	Mr President, I call on the Bureau to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u42	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u43	Mr President, with your permission, I would like to correct what Mrs Mariana Mortágua just said and put the truth about what happened yesterday in committee. The PSD did not vote against the Left Block proposal for a wage ceiling; who led this proposal was the Socialist Party, partner of the Left Block coalition. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u44	It was more an intervention and information than an appeal to the Bureau. It had nothing to do with the conduct of the work. For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal submitted yesterday by the PSD has two parts: a first part relates to declarations of heritage and income and a second concerns a set of other rules that relate to the governance model. As regards the declarations of wealth and income, the Constitutional Court has made it clear that its position was that of asking the administrators, who will respond in time, and that is an ongoing process. It seems to me that a legislative process is being carried out in this House at this time when a case is under way concerning the General Deposit Box is a violation which you demonstrate by the Constitutional Court. [[PSD protests.]] Since this is not a proposal for a budget, this House can always, at its own level, and taking into account what was the proposal presented by the PSD, then decide, subsequently, and in an autonomous process, as should be legislated in this matter. In relation to the other standards it is good to make clear here that what is intended is to make a change to the model of governance of the Box. This model of governance is something that was in the genesis and based on the discussions we had with the European Commission. These are rules that, within the limits, question what is the project that we have presented to a public and dispartitional Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u46	What about wages? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u47	What we have come here to defend, and what we will defend, is a public and split box, and we will not let the right hand come here to destroy what was an immense victory that we achieved in the negotiation with the European Commission. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u48	I'm talking about wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u49	The project of the parties on the right as government has always been a privatization project of the Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u50	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u51	What is said here today by the parties on the right is a case to say that populism has reached the city. Mr António Leitão Amaro, in his speech he has made, reveals, of two, one : or a deep ignorance of the RGICSF (General Regime of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies) or a temporary cognitive dysfunction... [[Protests of the PSD, having beaten with the hands on the sides of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u52	I ask all speakers to keep some care and to maintain respect for the various interventions they make. [[Continued PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u53	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u54	Mr Secretary of State, I ask you to continue, but with the natural respect that we all owe to each other in this House. Please. [[Continued PSD protests.]] The Bureau has already intervened. It is time for Mr. Secretary of State to continue. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u55	The RGICSF is very clear about the capitalisation conditions of a bank. What we did... [[Continuation of PSD protests, again having Members beaten with their hands on the benches.]] [[Stand back!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u56	There are no conditions for Mr. Secretary of State to continue to intervene. We have to wait a few more seconds. [[Continued PSD protests.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members to let Mr. Secretary of State finish the speech. I have already spoken in order to draw attention to language excesses which should not be used by anyone in Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State continued to use the floor. [[Continuation of PSD protests, again having Members beaten with their hands on the benches.]] I ask the Secretary of State to continue. Or we'll have to stop the session. [[Continued PSD protests.]] Mr. Secretary of State continued to use the floor. It is not tolerable, regardless of what happens, that any bench prevents a speaker from intervening, whether from the Government, or from any parliamentary bench. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u57	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares is making a signal, I think to speak to the Bureau, but there is no room for any inquiry to the Bureau until Mr. Secretary of State finishes. I thank the Secretary of State for summarizing his speech. Please continue, Secretary of State. [[Continued PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u58	There are no conditions for me to continue. [[Continued PSD protests.]] [[Excuse me!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u59	It is not acceptable that an attempt should be made to transform an incident for which the Bureau has already drawn the attention of the Secretary of State to a boycott to an intervention in this democratic Parliament. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to continue. [[Continued PSD protests.]] Mr. Secretary of State, please continue. [[Pause.]] Mr. Secretary of State, you must continue. The Bureau checks whether there are conditions or not. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u60	If you will allow me to continue, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not my intention to offend anyone. [[So, I'm sorry!]] If I've offended you, I'm sorry about that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If you will allow me to continue now, I will say that the rules of the RGICSF are very clear in relation to the capitalisation of a bank. And the fact that the capitalisation of a bank is urgent does not mean that it has to be done immediately must be done after the inequalities are recognised, duly ascertained, recognised in the accounts and to know exactly how much capital injection is needed. This work was done following the entry of the new administration, is being completed, implies a process, as was public knowledge and as the Government transmitted, of subordinate debt issue, and this subordinate debt issue process has to be done on accounts that are stabilized and approved. That is why we decided that the capitalisation process will be completed only in 2017, after the approval of the accounts in 2016 and after the issuance of the subordinated debt product. And it couldn't be any other way, because that is the agreement we have with the European Commission. What we achieved was a huge victory, a victory that prestigious Portugal and the General Deposit Box. And what we can't do here is destroy what is an asset of all Portuguese, which is the General Deposit Box. It is on behalf of this asset, on behalf of the recapitalisation of the Box and the maintenance of a Public Box that gives financing to the economy, that all of us beat here. That is why the Government has defended this possibility and has achieved this agreement with the European Commission, which I think is something that we should all be proud of. With regard to the criticisms that have been made to the capitalisation process, I believe that the process has been transparent. All stages of the process are from the knowledge of the honourable Members. Members, several times we came here to convey explanations and there was no time when Mr. President of the General Deposit Box had access to any privileged information,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...no other way could it be, because confidential banking information is not even available to shareholders, it is available to supervisors and cash administrators. Therefore, what we discussed with Dr. António Domingues was a capitalisation process, which was duly discussed with the authorities, in order to know whether it would be possible to complete a capitalisation process under market conditions. I think it's a huge victory and we should all be proud of it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u61	Mr Hugo Soares of the PSD Parliamentary Group asked for the floor to make an inquiry to the Bureau. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u62	Mr President, I would like to justify to the House the signal I made to the Bureau recently. We believe that, during the speech of the Secretary of State, language was used that is absolutely inappropriate and outraged by the parliamentary debate, of any public debate that can be held, but above all, outraged by those who occupy places, particularly in sovereignty bodies, such as the Secretary of State. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Mr. Secretary of State took the following action to retract and apologize. My signaling to the Bureau was to ask for the use of the word to defend the honor of the PSD Parliamentary Group bench. It is therefore without effect, Mr President, since the Secretary of State has acted and apologized. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u63	The table is grateful. Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a country in which the Prime Minister and his government are doing successive nonsense and think that the proper way to deal with them is to try to silence the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u65	That's what Dr. António Costa wants!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u66	Shut up the opposition to disguise not one, not two, not three, but dozens of errors that have been made in the General Deposit Box from the beginning is the same as other regimes. As long as they continue to rule badly, as long as they continue with this succession of errors and nonsense in the General Deposit Box will not shut us up! And I hope that no one in Portugal will be silent in the face of the evils, the mistakes, the indignities that you are doing to the public bank, which both say they want to defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u67	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u68	I shall finish, Mr President, by telling the honourable Members. Members of the Left Block who have the last chance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u69	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u70	I will finish, Mr. President. in the next vote, anyone who doesn't want exception regimes in the Box has only one chance...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u71	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies. It has already exceeded its time and the Bureau has from the beginning warned that there was no tolerance in the times. Please finish. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u72	I will finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u73	I have already said 'I will end' three times and it is not finished.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u74	If you let me finish, I will finish now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u75	Please, Mr. Deputy. Finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u76	Anyone who does not want an exception scheme will not vote against. The PSD does not vote against the Block proposal. I hope you will do the same with regard to our proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u77	Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has tried to explain the inexplicable, even saying the fantastic phrase 'there for something urgent, does not mean that it has to be done now or that it has to be done now', so I imagine it might be urgent for 10 years now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u79	That's for the story!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u80	Don't stop being extraordinary! Stay for the story of what has been said in this House! I would like to end by recalling other proposals from the CDS which unfortunately did not pass, but which today have a second chance. For example, I am talking about a proposal that has to do with late payments to EPE hospitals (business public entities) and that at least wants to restore a bit of decency in this area. Whenever the government throws rockets because of budgetary implementation, it forgets to explain, for example, that we already have more than 300 million euros of late payments to EPE hospitals in relation to what we had last year and that only this month, these payments have increased by 47 million euros. We need to explain and call things by names. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no successes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u81	And those who talk about income replacement policies should remember that these late payments are cuts in the incomes of the companies and of the workers of these companies. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Filipe Marques.]] He concluded, also saying that the Left Block and the PCP, above all, have a second chance today, because when they were in opposition they cried for increases of €25 for minimum pensions, for lower pensions of the lowest...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u82	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u83	Of course, Mr. President. The Left Block and the PCP today have the opportunity, not to devote the €25, but to devote more than what you approved yesterday, which is an increase of €10. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u84	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government on the General Deposit Box — this debate repeats itself, but it is still worth leaving something else to say about this — the PSD and the CDS do not want to impose limits on wages. If they wanted to impose limits on wages, they had approved the CFP proposals that were presented here a while ago and did not present any new proposals with other millionaires than those that are in force today. [[PCP applause.]] The PSD and the CDS do not want strict transparency, because otherwise they have already approved the CFP proposals that have been discussed in the Commission...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u86	They didn't, no! They've taken them away!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u87	... and did not merely bring useless proposals to the Assembly of the Republic. When these measures enter into force the situation will have been resolved by the Constitutional Court, which will in the meantime have applied the laws that you say must be applied. [[PSD protests.]] in your useless proposals, for your scenes, they do not count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u88	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u89	I shall conclude, Mr President. If the PSD and the CDS were truly concerned about these issues, they were disturbed by the salary of 30 000 € of Sergio Monteiro and had approved proposals that they had already brought here to solve these problems. They don't want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u90	Mr. João Oliveira, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u91	I shall conclude, Mr President. They really want to privatize the Box, stuff the Box and use the Box as a political weapon. Even if you want to put us all dancing to the sound of your music, you don't have that support from the PCP bench. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u92	We have come to the end of this agenda item, which concerns the discussion of the rules of law. We move on to the second point, which consists of voting on the rules of law and the articles and amendments sent to the plenary. Before we begin the vote, I remember that an opinion from the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication has already been voted on and it must be announced that Mrs Carla Tavares of the Socialist Party is taking up functions today. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 206 presences, which are added to those of the Members. Deputies Jorge Campos and Luís Monteiro, BE, Francisca Parreira and Diogo León, PS, and José Pedro Aguiar Branco and Teresa Morais, PSD, who were unable to register, are therefore present 212 Members. We must therefore proceed to the vote. Let's start with Article 8. the proposal of Law No 37 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017. With regard to this article, we will vote on proposal 304 - C from the CDS-PP, adding a new paragraph 12, Map of amendments and budget transfers. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on Article 8. o — Budget transfers. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal 230 - C, tabled by the CDS-PP, for the addition of Article 17. o -A — Extraordinary reduction of late payments in EPE hospitals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We are now voting on proposal 112 - C, submitted by BE, to add an article 17. o -A — Suspension of National Defence Day. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 152 - C of the BE, adding an article 18. o -A— Repealing rules under the Statute of the Public Manager. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of the vote, so I ask for some calm. The vote on proposal 166 - C, submitted by the PSD, was followed by an amendment to Article 21. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 71/2007 of 27 March 2007 [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes in favour of the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to remain silent, because in this way the Bureau has difficulty working. It is also a matter of respect for the Members of the Bureau. We are now voting on proposal 172 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add an article 21. o-B — Subject to obligations of transparency and responsibility. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE and CDS-PP, votes against the PS, the PCP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 240 - C, submitted by the PS, replacing Article 22. o — Precautionary control strategy. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The vote on Article 22 shall therefore be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 337 - C, tabled by the CFP, for the addition of Article 27. o -A — Review of the criteria determining the number of operational assistants in ungrouped schools and schools groups. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall then vote on proposal 107 - C, submitted by BE, to add an article 29. o -A — Exceptional recruitment of nurses. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 48. o — Amounts of participation by local authorities in State taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u93	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u94	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u95	Mr President, I propose the joint vote on points ( a ), ( b ) and ( c) and on Article 48 (2), (3) and (4). o.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u96	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u97	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u98	Mr President, I request only the joint vote on Article 48 ( a ), ( b ) and ( c ) and on Article 48 ( 1 ). o.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u99	We shall therefore vote together on points (a), (b) and (c) and on Article 48 ( 1 ). o. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] Mrs. Members, if there is no objection, we shall vote together in Article 48 ( 2 ), ( 3 ) and ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We shall then vote on proposal 29 - C, tabled by the NAP, amending Article 48 ( 5 ). o. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CFP and the Greens, votes in favour of BE and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on Article 48 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CFP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PS and the NAP and abstentions against BE and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote together on Article 48 ( a) and ( b ) and on Article 48 ( 6 ). o. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 48 ( 7 ). o. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We now vote on Article 48 ( 8 ). o. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, votes in favour of the PS and the NAP and the abstention from BE.]] We shall proceed to the joint vote on Article 53 (1), (2) and (3). o — Agreements on the regularization of debts of local authorities. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We shall vote on proposal 170 - C, tabled by the Greens, amending Article 54 ( 1 ). o — Intermunicipal systems and aggregation of municipal systems. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall then vote on proposal 282 - C, submitted by the PS, in the part in which Article 54 ( 1 ) is amended. o. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] The vote on Article 54 ( 1 ) shall then be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We now vote on proposal 282 - C submitted by the PS, in the part in which Article 54 (2) is amended. o. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] The vote on Article 54 ( 2 ) shall be adversely affected. o. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on proposal 282 - C, tabled by the PS, in the part in which Article 54 ( 3 ) is amended. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PS and abstentions against the BE and the NAP.]] The vote on Article 54 ( 3 ) shall follow. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PSD, BE and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 170 - C, tabled by the Greens, amending Article 54. o. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote on proposal 282 - C submitted by the PS to amend Article 54. o. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote on Article 54 shall then be adversely affected. o. We turn to Article 56. o — Payment to concessionaires under judicial or arbitral decision or rescue of concession contract. We shall vote on proposal 160 - C, submitted by BE, in the part in which it amends paragraph 1 of this Article 56. o. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 56 ( 1 ). o. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall then vote on Article 56 ( 2 ). o. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 160 - C submitted by BE, in the part in which Article 56 (3) is amended. o. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We now vote on Article 56 ( 3 ). o. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on Article 56 ( 4 ). o. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on Article 56 ( 5 ). o. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on proposal 160 - C, submitted by BE, in the part in which it amends the heading of Article 56. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]] Let us vote on the heading of Article 56. o. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to Article 59. o — Decentralisation of competences for municipalities and intermunicipal entities within the framework of social action. Let us begin by voting on proposal 188 - C, submitted by the PSD, replacing Article 59. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] Since there is no opposition, we shall vote on points (a) and (b) and on Article 59 ( 1 ) and Article 59 ( 2 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PS and the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 190 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add Article 59. o -A — Legal transfer of competences within the framework of education and health infrastructure. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 192 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add Article 59. o-B — Legal transfer of competences within the framework of social action. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the NAP.]] Since there is no opposition, we shall vote together on proposals 196 - C, submitted by the PSD, for the addition of Article 59. o-C — Legal transfer of competences in the management of the coastal, 200 - C, submitted by the PSD, of the addition of Article 59. o-D — Legal transfer of competences in the field of forest management — and 194 - C, submitted by the PSD, of the addition of Article 59. o-E — Legal transfer of competences in veterinary medicine, animal health and food safety. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Let us turn to Article 61. o — metropolitan areas and intermunicipal communities. Let us begin by voting on paragraph 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on Article 61 ( 2 ). o. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the PAN and against the CDS-PP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on Article 63 ( 1 ) to ( 4 ). a — Reduction of debt. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] For Article 71. o — Assumption by local authorities of expenditure relating to the national counterpart of projects co-financed by European funds, we will begin by voting on proposal 292 - C, submitted by the PS, amending this article. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and with abstentions from the PS, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] Having approved this proposal, the vote on Rule 71 shall be impaired. The proposal of the law. We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 88 - C, tabled by the CFP, on the addition of Article 72. o -A— Property with lease contracts or similar. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We will move on to proposal 204 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add an article 74. o -A — Participation of municipalities in VAT revenue. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 345 - C, tabled by the CFP, to add Article 81. o-B — Elimination of architectural barriers. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to Article 82. o — Legislative authorization under the contribution scheme of self-employed persons. Let us begin by voting on proposal 165 - C, submitted by BE, in the part in which Article 82(2)(d ) is amended. o. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote on Article 82 ( d ) shall therefore be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We turn to the vote on proposal 165 - C submitted by BE, in the part amending Article 82 ( 2 ( f ). o. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote on Article 82 ( f ) shall be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We turn to Article 88. o — Extraordinary updating of pensions. We shall vote on proposal 263 - C, submitted by the PSD, replacing Article 88. o. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes in favour of the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 350 - C, submitted by the PS, replacing Article 88. o. [[Pause.]] Question: What is the meaning of the CDS-PP vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u100	Mr President, in the vote script that we do not have this proposal from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u101	But we have to vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u102	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u103	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u104	Mr President, this question was put at the outset by the fact that the vote script focuses only on lawyers. However, a corrected script was distributed with Article 88. the, as voted in the Commission,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u105	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u106	... therefore, including all proposals, subject to final approval is a non-existence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u107	Exactly. I think there's no problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u108	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u109	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u110	Mr President, at the moment I do not have all the votes taken yesterday at the Commission's office. I have only, to vote, the script that was distributed yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u111	This script has been amended with regard to this Article.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u112	So two, one : or we wait a few minutes or we vote for this article in the next session, so that we do not delay the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u113	No, sir. Let's vote now. I ask that the new script be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u114	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u115	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u116	Mr President, in order to make it easier, he proposed that consideration of the plenary should be given to ratifying yesterday's votes in the Commission on Article 88. o. If everyone votes in the same way as they voted yesterday in the Commission, the problem is solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u117	All right. It's much more practical. We shall then proceed to the ratification of yesterday's votes in the Commission as regards Article 88. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Thank you very much for this invaluable aid in the vote on Article 88. the amendments and their proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u118	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u119	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u120	Mr President, so that there is no problem in the case after that, the Greens and the PAN will have to report their vote because they were not present in the Commission and have the right to vote in the plenary. Therefore, in order for the vote to be formally correct, the Greens and the NAP must communicate their sense of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u121	Are you talking about what proposals, in particular?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u122	Mr President, I speak of the whole of Rule 88. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u123	Question: What is the position of The Greens?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u124	The Greens' position is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u125	What about the PAN?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u126	Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u127	The votes taken yesterday in the Commission on Article 88 shall then be confirmed. the proposal for a law, reinforced with this support from The Greens and the NAP. We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 256 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add Article 88. o-B — Reform of social protection systems. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the second item on the agenda...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u128	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u129	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u130	Mr President, although at the time I drew attention to this, the Bureau did not announce the way in which the Greens voted in relation to proposal 172 - C, so our sense of vote is against.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u131	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. This voting position does not alter the result of the vote on proposal 172 - C, submitted by the PSD, of the addition of Article 21. o-B — Subjection to obligations of transparency and responsibility — which has been adopted, and whose vote is to be as follows: votes in favour of PSD, BE and CDS-PP, votes against PS, the CFP and the Greens, and abstention from the NAP. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the third item on the agenda on the discussion of Articles 109. o 166. o -A of Bill No 37 / XIII ( 2. ( a). The proposal of Article 109 ( A ) — An intervention plan in the Peniche Fortress presented by the CFP is under discussion. Mr Pedro Pimão of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Peniche Fortress is a very important historical monument for the region and for the country. However, it is in an accelerated process of degradation, so we regret the Government's option to remove this monument from the Revive programme. It is inconceivable that a political party may condition decisions on Peniche, to the distress of the assistance of the legitimate representatives of its population. It is unacceptable that they are now proposing study committees for the possibility of compatibility and use for tourism purposes and memory preservation, because this has always been guaranteed. In fact, the inclusion of funds in the State Budget does not replace the inclusion of the Peniche Fortress in the Revive project. in a partial concession it is more than natural that the State assumes a part of the recovery of the property, so we will be attentive and active in defending the rehabilitation of Peniche's fort. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u133	We are now discussing the proposal of Article 109. o -A — Suspension of the system for updating the value of propines presented by the PCP. Mr Duarte Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a number of proposals are under discussion on the freezing of propines in public higher education institutions. however, it seems important to us the following: if the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PCP really wanted to freeze the propines because they did not increase the allocation for universities and polytechnics? That, yes, would be balanced, yes, it would be fair. And also, if they are so worried about the students, especially the most deprived students, what they should do was pay the school social action scholarships. There are currently 40 000 students waiting for the State, the government, to decide to pay the scholarships because the higher education institutions have already treated them, they have already entered them. in fact, what happens is that the government, once again, does not pay and the PCP and the Left Block, who were so worried about the scholarships, no longer talk about it. You know why? Because, for 4 years, there were no delays in the payment of school social action grants. [[PCP protests.]] Now, 40 000 students have no scholarship, and you are silent in the face of the delay in paying them. This is trying to bleach what is a reality and a sadness of this higher education. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u135	On the same proposal, Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left Block is conceptually against the shores. Freeing the higher education of propines is our program and our goal. The first step in this debate on the policy of propinas and model of higher education funding is precisely to suspend the system of constant updating of the value of higher education, thus maintaining the frozen value equal to that of the school year that now runs. Fighting school dropout is certainly about strengthening social action, but today the tips are the greatest obstacle to access to higher education. On bags, we also have a clear position. in the last State Budget, discussed in this House, we presented a proposal for an amendment so that the social action grants and their results would leave until 31 December of this school year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u137	They're going out in October, not December.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u138	The fact is that the PSD abstained from this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u139	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u140	So what Mr Duarte Marques came here to do was an exercise of demagogy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u141	Demagogy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u142	We're already used to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u143	He took 1 minute to talk about the scholarships, but, at the time of truth, he did not vote in favour of the left block proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u144	We are now discussing the proposal of Article 109. o -A— Exemption of toll rates in A22 - Via do Infante, presented by BE. Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Block of Left presents a proposal in this Budget with a view to exempting the Way of Child tolls. It is the third time in this year that the Left Block presents this proposal, all plunged with the votes of the PS, the PSD and the CDS. They are tolls imposed in the Algarve 5 years ago by the PSD/CDS government and which are a historical error due to serious economic and mobility damage, without alternative ways. The Algarve continues with a national road, paragraph 125, far from being re-qualified, with paralysed works and where accidents are very potentiated. In addition to a truly ruinous and fraudulent public-private partnership, the brand image, which is quite negative, are the accidents that occur every day. The annual average in the Algarve is 10,000 accidents, 35 fatalities and 160 wounded. The 125 National Road was considered a « cemetery» by Mr. Prime Minister, who admitted to raising the tolls. from there the urgency of your uprising. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u146	On the same proposal, Mr António Eusébio, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. João Vasconcelos, like any lizard or user who lives or works in the Algarve, we wish a Child's Way without tolls. But this, Mr President, was not the Socialist Party's commitment to this legislation. Responsibly, the Socialist Party's commitment was to progressively reduce the tolls in A22, and we have already started this path. Although the 15 % decrease has fallen below the desired by many algae today, we can say with greater conviction that the decrease in the toll values generates an increase in traffic and, consequently, by reducing the tolls, we can maintain, or even increase, the revenue of the state. It is with the monitoring of this measure that the Government should decide to reduce the value of the tolls. It is in this perspective that we will fight, with responsibility, for fulfilling our commitment to the algae. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u148	We are now discussing the proposal of Article 109. o -A— Cobrance of propinas by higher education institutions, presented by BE. Mr João Torres of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Assembly of the Republic had the opportunity, already in 2016, to discuss for three times the problem of propines in our country, and yet that happened. The position of the PS, both in the Government and in the Assembly of the Republic, through its Parliamentary Group, has been very clear. We are aware that it is necessary to do more and better to ensure that no student is distracted from the possibility of attending a university or a political institute, because for us higher education is a right and not a privilege. It is not by chance that this State budget provides for a significant increase in the budget allocation for school social action, in a joint effort that aims to extend the social base of this level of education in our country. in the context of the 2017 State Budget, the PS therefore returns to propose to the Assembly of the Republic the freezing of the maximum and minimum values of the tip in Portugal. As happened nine months ago in the discussion of the 2016 State Budget, we stressed the symbolic but effective character of this proposal, which has underlying the unequivocal recognition that the value of propines in Portugal is too high and in some cases reaches the highest amounts of the European Union. We know that the stagnation of the maximum and minimum values of the propines does not solve all the problems, but, Mr President, we also know that, in a country that has, in the deficit of qualifications, its greatest limitation, in a country that between 2011 and 2015 has seen the investment so impoverished in this sector, the symbolic dimension of this measure is not of mere importance, it materializes — and I reaffirm — the will of the Socialist Party to introduce more justice in a system where unfortunately there are still many, even many citizens who are going to be behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u150	We are now discussing the proposal of Article 109. -A— Supplementary social protection of workers under individual employment contract, submitted by the PS. Mr Luís Testa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's proposal is set out in its explanatory statement and aims to achieve two objectives: on the one hand, to equip the workers of this unified company with social protection which has been agreed with themselves and therefore cannot be denied; on the other hand, to establish an equal regime for all workers of the same company, since not all have the same certificate and the same value. Thus, the Socialist Party's proposal aims, in essence, to achieve a single objective, and this objective is called social justice. Social justice, which has been furnished for a long time, for too many years, of the national political landscape. We are here to fulfill our commitments and to fulfill what we promise. Social justice is what everyone can expect from this government and the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u152	Let us move on to the discussion of Article 111. o — Environmental fund. Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this government that has removed environmental policies from the agenda is the same as saying that it is affixed to environmental policies, which says that for it the environment and environmental policies are priority. But this is not true and there are several examples in this State budget that prove that it is not. If the merger of funds into a single fund can even be beneficial for an integrated and empowering vision, it is true that this environmental fund, in addition to a short interpretation for everything it intends to cover, has still less than EUR 7 million than the total amount of funds before the merger. It is more than EUR 7 million, ladies and gentlemen. Members, withdrawn from environmental policies. A cut of EUR 7 million that, combined with other harmful government options, shows well, and again, how this government does not prioritize matters in this area. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u154	Let us move on to the discussion of Article 112. o — Transitional financing arrangements provided for in Law No 52 / 2015 of 9 June 2015. This Act concerns the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service. Mr Paulo Rios of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to this transitional scheme of EUR 3 million for the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon as regards transport, it is first and foremost to mention that this proposal reproduces our 2015 proposal, with one exception. It is that our division was in equal parts and this is a more clumsy solution that we will follow carefully, because sometimes they forget to divide, as is the North. The PSD is merely proposing an evaluation report on the implementation of this model. Who's afraid of transparency? Who's afraid of evaluation? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u156	We are now discussing the proposal for Article 113. o -A — Amendment to the Annex to Decree-Law No 8/2011 of 11 January 2011 submitted by BE. This Decree-Law updates the values due to the payment of acts by health authorities and services provided by other public health professionals. Mr Jorge Falcato, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the multi-purpose certificate, which assesses and certifies the degree of disability, is required to persons with disabilities as proof of their inability to access various compensations. Compensation, for example, at tax level, interest subsidies in the acquisition of own house, right to park in places reserved for this purpose or exemption from payment of moderate fees. For people with incomes who, in many cases, do not exceed €200 to pay €50 to access the rights that are enshrined in the legislation, it is a huge injustice. We have always fought against the excessive cost of this statement. We now propose its reduction to half. This is a very important measure for thousands of people who are unable to access rights because they have no money to pay this fee. To reduce the value of the attestation is a small but decisive step towards the exercise of these rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u158	We shall proceed to the discussion of Article 122. o — Provision of revenue for oil and energy products tax. Mr António Lima Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this article says that the revenue of the ISP ( Petroleum and Energy Products Tax) on agricultural gas oil is allocated to the financing of the national counterpart of the PDR 2020. For the least attention, it was intended to create the following illusion: this government recognises that it has increased taxes on farmers, but you have strengthened austerity on farmers, it is true, but there is no problem because the revenue obtained with this increase in taxes returns to farmers. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is false that it returns to the farmers, there is no advantage for them. What this article provides is only that this revenue is allocated to the financing of the public national counterpart, i.e. to the financing of what is a contractual obligation of the Government. This revenue is not allocated to the financing of the private national counterpart, i.e. the contribution effectively borne by farmers. The government in this matter plays with the words and "throws sand for the eyes" of the farmers. It is a 'chico-spertice' that we want to denounce here. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u160	We turn to a proposal for Article 127. o -A— Extension of the law against precariousness, presented by the Left Block. Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u161	Mr President, this proposal from the Left Block, which also deserves the agreement of the Government, aims to extend the law against precariousness. This is basically a mechanism for regularising the false green receipts that we want to extend to false scholarships, false stages, underground and hidden work, so that all these workers can have a contract of employment. This special action implies the responsibility of the Labour Conditions Authority ( ACT ) and the Public Ministry itself to ensure the recognition of employment contracts to these persons and to create a mechanism to protect against dismissal between the inspection of the Working Conditions Authority and the court decision. It can make a difference in the lives of thousands of people. For this reason, we need to use this mechanism, report and organize ourselves against abuse. And above all, it is necessary for the 80 inspectors who are being recruited by the Working Conditions Authority to enter into activity quickly and that the ACT itself reinforces their inspection actions. This is basically the same assumption that exists in the process of regularizing the State's precariouss that we discussed yesterday: do not wait and ensure that no one is left out. Company the company, service, agency the body, the precariouss must be heard and demanded that justice be done to them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u162	We turn to Article 130. o — Free of charge for school textbooks. Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the area of education, the CFP presented and contributed decisively to several proposals for the construction and defense of public school, a truly democratic public school at the service of the people and the development of the country. We point out the extension of the freeness of school textbooks to the students of 1. the cycle, which results from the intervention of the PCP and will cover 370,000 children. It is an important measure to combat asymmetries and social inequalities, which opens a perspective for a fairer future in terms of access and success at school. Another proposal that we also bring here is that of the gradual reduction of the number of students per class, process to start in the school year 2017 / 2018 and that, according to the PCP, will contribute strongly to the improvement of the quality of education and to the promotion of school success. This is the realization of a measure already taken as a political commitment and that needs to be implemented. Another proposal that we consider to be the most elementary justice relates to the replacement of social action support for school school visits to study visits of students who are beneficiaries of steps A and B. These support was eliminated during the PSD / CDS government, which meant discrimination and segregation of students with lower economic conditions in access to study visits. regarding higher education, we also highlight the proposals for the delivery of dissertations, project works, reports and theses only in digital format and to prevent the increase of the value of propinas. These are proposals which the CFP brings here, taking into account the current situation and the need and urgency of combating impoverishment and elitist access and frequency of public higher education. The CFP believes that the conditions already in place should not be aggravated, but we also reaffirm that the freeness of all levels and degrees of education is an indispensable element of the country's development and progress policy. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u164	Mrs Maria Augusta Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, all families with children and young people of school age know very well what sacrifices they make at the beginning of each school year to cope with expenses with school textbooks. For some families, these charges are higher than the income of the family aggregate itself. This situation implies, you know - as well as the teachers and I all know - the drag of the school year without these students having their school textbooks, which are, for many of them, the only teaching material they have. The high price of school textbooks, associated with periods of work, often scandalously short, is a problem that, having been recognized for decades, there has never been audacity to approach it forward. But with this government, this matter was taken forward with the progressive free of charge of school textbooks, expressed in Article 130. the budget proposal. It is a deliberate investment, but it is also a virtuous investment, because it promotes the educational success of our students and at the same time degrades the burdens of families. It is therefore a response to the wishes of parents and education officers, teachers and students. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is clear that some economic interests are trying to obscure this fact. It is legitimate that they defend their interests, but should take care not to oppose their particular interests to the common good. With this measure, it was for the government to safeguard and defend the interests of families and students. It is up to the Government to promote equity and success in school. It is up to all of us to comply with the Constitution. That's what the government does. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u166	Still to intervene on Article 130. the proposal for a law, has the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u167	Mr President, in this State budget, the Left Block presents proposals to relieve families of the weight and expenditure of their children's education. A proposal to support the purchase of school textbooks to those families who, not entitled to social action at school, see September as the terrible month of purchase of textbooks — extraordinary support until all school textbooks are free. A second proposal to establish justice is that students' school meals in the canteens may be included in the deduction to the collection, at the home of IRS, of their parents. These are measures to establish justice that I believe will have the support of all banks. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u168	Mr Elza Pais of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. today, ladies and gentlemen, on this International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, I would like to congratulate the Government on the budget that it presents to us, which has, in a cross-sectional manner, various measures to promote equality and combat gender-based violence. regarding education, it is important to highlight: the strengthening of scholarships, the generalization of preschool and the freeness of school textbooks. And, with regard to this latter measure, it will guarantee universal access and pedagogical equity. Investing in education, from a young age, in citizenship, in humanist values, in sexual education is the best way to ensure a life with autonomy and free from violence and gender discrimination. I therefore welcome the government's commitment to promoting educational equity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u170	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the proposal of Article 132. o-B — Students with a disability of 60 % or more, presented by BE. Mr Jorge Falcato, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this proposal, it is intended to guarantee all students with a disability equal to or greater than 60 % the payment of higher education tips. We present it because it is necessary to increase the number of students with disabilities at this level of education, in which the percentage of students with special educational needs does not reach 0, 4 %. It is urgent to change this situation. The exemption from the payment of propines is a very important step in this direction, but more needs to be done. In order to increase the frequency of these students it is necessary not only to improve the conditions of inclusion throughout the school course, but also that higher education institutions are prepared to receive them, which is not the case. Apart from the exemption of propines, it is necessary to ensure conditions such as accessible and adapted residences, personal assistance, adaptation of teaching materials and curricula, etc. etc. We have already put forward proposals in this regard and we will be going through them for their approval. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u172	We turn to Article 135. o — Power guarantee. Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the issue of energy billing for businesses and the general population continues to be a central concern that demands political will and concrete measures. And, in this area, among several other proposals presented by the CFP in the area of energy, we want to highlight measures that contribute to this central objective of cost reduction, for better living conditions and economic activity. We propose the elimination of payments to electro-productive companies for power assurance, a reduction not in the cost of interruptability contracts, the renegotiation of energy procurement contracts with a view to their elimination by 2019, raising these guaranteed income to energy sector economic groups and providing corresponding reductions in the final price. We also propose the reduction of natural gas tariffs in 2016, 2017 and subsequent years with a view to returning to consumers the amounts corresponding to the excessive marketing margins in contracts concluded with Nigeria. We propose that the costs of applying the social tariff to natural gas customers, as well as the logistics operator for the change of marketers, be borne by energy suppliers and not by final customers. We propose the continuation of the regulated rate in electricity, with the extension from 2017 to 2020 of the deadline for the termination of the transitional supply tariffs to the end customers of normal low voltage. They are concrete solutions that aim to contribute constructively to an adequate and effective response to many problems that are felt daily in economic activity and, in particular, in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u174	In the context of this same article, Mr Jorge Costa, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u175	Mr President, we recognize, in the Government's energy bill, important advances for which the Left Block is proud to have contributed, within the framework of the working group set up with the Government, to reduce the energy costs of families. It was in this context that we discussed and drew up jointly, over this period, proposals such as the revisibility of costs with contracts for the maintenance of contractual balance, CMECs, the revision of the interruptability allowance for large high voltage energy consumers and also the proposal on the power guarantee and the modification of the power guarantee mechanism, which is a widely surplus subsidy and allocated in a very opaque way, as well as the replacement of this scheme by another. The Left Block, in this budgetary debate, presents an additional proposal for the current subsidy to be suspended in order to ensure that, in the shortest and fastest possible manner, a substantial reduction in the cost of the power guarantee system is guaranteed. We believe that, as a whole, this State budget takes very important steps in the area of combating energy income and in the area of combating the lowering of the energy costs of families, and this has already reflected the tariff that has been set for electricity for the next year. We believe that these are just the first steps that it is important to deepen and continue to develop within the parliamentary majority. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u176	I now give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Energy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u177	Mr President, I would like to start by addressing the House to say that in the previous budget we have introduced transparency mechanisms in the energy and electricity sector, in particular, as well as natural gas, which have led to the possibility that the increase proposed by the Regulatory Energy Services Authority for the next year would be the lowest in the last 10 years and that cumulatively it would be the lowest ever since there is liberalized market in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We want to continue this path, giving transparency and rigour not only to the electricity market, but also to gas and fuel markets. I would also like to tell you that the proposals contained in the State budget, among which I would like to refer to the guarantee of competence, resulting from the approval of the last State budget which led to the production of a report by the Energy Services Regulatory Body, which the Government has taken, will lead to the fact that, next year, there will no longer be a purely administrative subsidy on the part of the State, and there will be a competitive mechanism in all situations which are supported by electricity production. But let's do more than that. I would also like to draw attention to two other very important measures, from the very first time of the existence of a logistics operator for the change of the marketer, which will lead consumers to know exactly which is the best electricity and natural gas marketer and, from there, to an immediate procurement process. This is done today by companies themselves and is paid by consumers and will be paid by the state without any additional cost. I would also like to say that bottle gas will become part of the regulatory entity for energy services. It is incomprehensible that the energy regulator in Portugal was prevented from being able to operate on the bottle gas sector, where Portugal is one of the countries with the most expensive prices — compared to Spain has double the price. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are measures of transparency and cost correction that the Socialist Party, the Government and all of us. Members will carry out next year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u178	You have the floor in the context of the discussion of Article 137. o — Regulation of the liquefied oil gas sector, Mr Hugo Costa, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to stress what this budget achieves in the area of energy, low prices and sustainability, with the mechanisms of the guarantee of power which will certainly be approved. Regarding botija gas, it still represents about 75% of the consumption made by the Portuguese population, especially the most disadvantaged population. More efficient regulation will certainly allow a price drop. It is not acceptable for the price of natural gas to fall, on average, 20 %, both for families and for businesses, and not for the gas of the store, consumed by the most disadvantaged Portuguese. Therefore, it is also crucial that the Government's proposal to place in the ERSE ( Regulatory Energy Services Entity ) the regulation of the stock gas. in the context of debate in the specialty, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group submits a proposal to further be subject to the regulation of ERSE the fuel, oil derivatives and biofuels sector. We recognize the existence of legitimate doubts about the competition market in the sector, so this amendment will allow economies of scale, better regulation and, of course, more efficiency on the market, which will allow lower fuel prices. We believe that this amendment will be positive for both companies and consumers. For this reason, the PS will continue to work with the Government and its partners to lower energy prices, as it did with the social tariff, which now covers more than 700 000 families who can thus have a price drop. We will therefore continue to work in this direction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u180	We move on to the discussion of Article 139. o — Obligation to incorporate. Mr Luís Leite Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking this time to make a brief statement on the various articles that were previously lawyers. Regarding excessive energy income, it is always with a huge shock that the PSD bench hears these statements. It is that the lack of memory, of decorum and, even of stink, when the Government or the Socialist Party talk about excessive incomes, can only be alarmed. You have no limits! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u182	It's just, every time VV. They talk about excessive incomes, they should put their hands on their chest in a sign of repentance, because if there are imbalances, if there is a serious problem, if there is a tariff deficit in energy, it was because governments of the Socialist Party have created them over a number of years. And at the moment, the situation is largely due to the PSD/CDS-PP government, which cut income in the sector by more than 4 billion and created conditions to substantially reduce the deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u183	The deficit has always increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u184	Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, if the Government intends to go further in the courting of excessive incomes, it is intended to go further in an effort of balance and sustainability, because they will certainly follow the example of the previous government. But they go far away and do so, above all, legally, with a sense of responsibility and fulfilling the contracts, the guarantees that the State, as a good person, has signed with all the operators of the system. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u185	Let us move on to the discussion of Article 141. o — Third Island Economic Revitalisation Plan. Mr António Ventura of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this plan is not being fulfilled after so many PS oaths. In 2016 we did not have a penny in the Budget and in 2017 there are only words. A constant illusion is being created and only expectations, many expectations, to the Azorians are being created. What this government says in practice is that people can be deceived, taking into account what they do. The fulfilment of this plan is a good example of how to govern this government: it governs doing theatre. But one day the piece ends! [[PSD applause.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u187	I now give the floor to Mrs Lara Martinho of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this 2017 Budget is a good budget for the Azores and it is not consistent to hear Mr.António Ventura criticizes it when he did not present any proposed amendment and could have done so,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u189	... thus improving the budget for the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS was not silent and, although we consider this to be a budget that improves the lives of the Azorians, who pursue the path of reconciliation with the autonomous regions, we have tabled a set of amendments. But let's talk about the Third Island Economic Revitalization Plan. He continues to pretend that he does not know, but he knows that the implementation of this revitalization plan is cross-sectional to various instruments of support and planning of the Republic and that there are already a set of measures that have been implemented, such as the ongoing certification process for the civil aviation of the Base das Lajes track, such as the coming of the low-cost company, which will start flights already on Friday—that is, from today to eight days— such as the development of the beach of Victoria or the development of the Azores International Research Center ( Air Center ). But I understand the position of the honourable Member. It must be very difficult to accept that it is a Government of the Socialist Party that takes away the role of the PREIT(Third Island Economic Revitalization Plan ), which is a Government of the Socialist Party that assumes the consecutive commitment to the development of the Third Island. These initiatives by the PS Government are all or more important considering that the previous PSD/CDS-PP government could have developed them and opted for nothing to do, or then announced and then did nothing, as in the case of low-cost aviation companies. What I can say is that, with the PS, the Third Island is not abandoned, with the PS, the Azores are not forgotten. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u190	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor. Mr. João Piinho de Almeida ( CDS-PP ). — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the concern expressed in this Budget with the Autonomous Region of the Azores, more specifically with the Third Island, is clear from the text of this Article 141. the, which I read : « The Government implements the Third Island Economic Revitalization Plan. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is probably the most ridiculous budget rules that some budget debate has ever seen! Need to put a rule in a State budget law saying that the government implements a revitalization plan on an island is in fact a sign that the government itself does not trust its ability to implement, and it is very paradigmatic. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u191	We now move on to the discussion of proposal 55 - C, presented by PSD Members Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, of addition to an article No. 141 - B— Incendios de August 2016 in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Mrs. Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u192	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the national solidarity with Madeira after the fires that ravaged it in summer was expressive. It is now essential to materialize this solidarity in a multi-party way, through the approval of the complete package that we present to accelerate the process of supporting the reconstruction of affected housing and families victims of fires who want to redeploy their lives more rapidly, either through housing support agreements, with the Housing Access Financing Programme ( Prohabita ), either with the correction of the financial money, either with the special expropriation regime, or with the special VAT regime for the reconstruction of housing, which does not cost one cent to the State Budget. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u193	We are now discussing two proposals submitted by the NAP, both of which add an article 143. the -A, the first being the heading « Training of technicians of the Ministry of Agriculture » and the second being « Incentive to electric mobility ». Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, farmers who want to convert or invest in organic agriculture face numerous difficulties with public bodies due to the lack of training technicians in this area. Investment projects submitted to support programs are often underestimated by lack of theoretical knowledge and domain of cultural practices by guardianship. We therefore propose, in the first phase and to address this unequivocal shortage, that two technicians be trained in each of the Regional Directorates of Agriculture and Fisheries. The benefits of organic agriculture are known in several areas: for consumer health, since it does not introduce pesticides into the food chain, and the environment because it stops the growing contamination of the soils and water resources in progress and has a much smaller contribution to greenhouse gas emissions. The way we are producing food is unsustainable. People must also begin to have a voice in the food debate, and the government, together with all of us, must start a reflection on the inadequate agricultural policies which have been in force in Portugal for a long time. With regard to another proposal, concerning the renewal of fleets, the urgency of implementing the Paris targets and the need to carry out a road map for the decarbonisation of the national economy, we today take the vote a standard that contractualizes the replacement of 150 vehicles of the State car park by electric cars, already in 2017, with the aim of replacing a total of 1200 vehicles by 2019. In order to bring this measure into line, the NAP proposal also aims to strengthen the electricity supply network of vehicles, with the installation of more than 250 posts throughout the country, already next year. The importance of this measure is already demonstrated in the short term by the urgent implementation and investment in energy transition and electrical mobility. However, we must be more bold and make long-term commitments beyond this legislature. The NAP will continue to work and challenge the government to take up a phased, but with a final goal for the coming years, of renewing the entire fleet of state vehicles. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u195	We shall enter into the assessment of Article 144. o — Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons. Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, as the CFP has stated, and it is now proven, it is possible to go further in the elimination of overtax in IRS. With the decisive contribution and intervention of the CFP, from 1 January, 1 150 000 family aggregates of 2. the step will no longer pay overtax, which will be maintained only with lower rates to 9 % of the family aggregates, those with higher incomes. It would be possible to go even further, completely eliminating the overtax on 1 January 2017 and reverting other elements of the IRS tax collection carried out by the previous PSD/CDS-PP Government, if the PS and its Government considered the adoption of more appropriate tax measures of large capital, such as those presented by the CFP in the proposals for that State budget, namely the increase in the state spill affecting large companies, with taxable income exceeding EUR 35 million, or the creation of a new tax on financial transactions. in the reform of the IRS Code, the former PSD Government / CDS-PP has altered the deductions of education expenditure, benefiting, with regard to food and transport costs, private schools in relation to public schools. The CFP submits a proposal that corrects this situation by determining that education costs related to feeding in school meals and the transport of students enrolled in any level of education are deductible at the IRS level. Under this tax, the CFP also proposes an increase in income tax rates and transfers to entities subject to more favourable tax systems, thus combating aggressive tax planning practices aimed at a avoidance of payment of due taxes. Finally, the CFP proposes the elimination of additional tax inequity imposed by the former PSD Government / CDS-PP, while it is possible to apply the retention table at the source of IRS, in cases of single-holder marriage, to taxpayers who gain 95 % or more of the income of their family aggregates. With the approval of this proposal, taxpayers in this situation will have a significant improvement in their monthly income available. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u197	Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u198	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this State budget, which we are discussing in the field, brings us, within the framework of the IRS, more fiscal justice, more equity, but also a better relationship of citizens with the Tax Authority. For the Socialist Party, overtax has always been a policy instrument that added tax injustice and penalized labour income. With the proposals of the various parliamentary groups that support this government that we have on the table, there is assurance that the Portuguese will pay less IRS in 2017, the poorest Portuguese will pay less than those who have higher work incomes. With this government, there is more fiscal justice, there is more justice for work and we have more equal opportunities because we better distribute income and sacrifice more those who have the most income. But let me add: with this government, we have, within IRS, other important instruments for relations between citizens and tax administration. For example, the simplification of those who have dependent income, whether pension or salary; the possibility of a binding self-filling after a deadline, or the possibility, on a proposal from this Parliamentary Group, of no taxation at the premises of those taxpayers who, within IRS, have local accommodation and who want to transfer it to category F, to the place of urban rent. We have proposals to combat fraud and tax evasion, particularly in transfers and payments to more competitive tax jurisdictions, which are often tax havens. We have proposals for more fiscal justice, more equality and this Parliamentary Group is very pleased to give a virtually final'safanan' to an unfair extent that was the overtax of IRS. It will end the overtax in 2017, will end a tax injustice by the hand of the proposal submitted by the majority that supports this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u199	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we have had the opportunity to discuss this issue and we know the positions of each party on what is essentially involved in this Budget, in fiscal policy and also in the IRS. It is good that this is the case and that there is an opportunity for parties to show their differences. But it is also important — it is really fundamental — that we have the ability to distance ourselves from time to time to realize that there are matters that are above any party divergence. There are matters of national interest, that is to say, those matters are in the interests of all of us and our future, and one of these matters, which is virtually ignored in the major debates, is the question of birth. The question of birth is essential, it is transversal to all matters and to all our approaches to the future of the country, from a geographical, strategic, financial, economic and social point of view. Christmas is also a central issue for the CDS and we are trying to bring it back to the debate by recovering a proposal that is very clear, coherent and consistent, which is tested in other countries and it was good for Portugal to consider it again. This is the proposal on family allowances. We know that this mechanism was introduced by the previous government and represented a step forward. Well, the government, by going back to the conjugal quotient, even with a fixed deduction per child, took a step back. And what was your big argument to take this step back? It was to say that the family quotient was recessive...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u201	It was regressive!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u202	... I say retroactively, i.e. that it did not contribute to social justice. Well, the truth is, today we know...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u203	We know, we know!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u204	... we have technical studies from the European Commission to demonstrate that this measure has been progressive, and we also have the budgetary implementation which shows that those who have paid more taxes, proportionally, have benefited much less — almost half — from this measure. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u205	Therefore, it is fundamental and of the national interest that we have the ability not to divide this into a party, left or right issue, but that we always put national interest above all. That is the contribution the CDS makes here today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u206	Mr Rubina Berardo of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the debate on the articles on taxes for 2017 and the role of the opposition, which is so uncomfortable to the government, is to vote and look beyond the propaganda of the government and the parties that support it and the Executive's advertising campaigns that promise tax discounts for next year. during the speciality debate, the PSD has shown that this budget proposal contains several tax increases. And it's not just the PSD that says it. It is worth recalling that there are independent bodies that alert to the same: they increase various taxes, various contributions, various rates and taxes. Let us see: the Council of Public Finance points out that the 2017 State Budget keeps the tax burden unchanged compared to 2016, at 24, 1 % of GDP. The short blanket that is this Budget of the State, the PS, the PCP, the Greens and the Left Block, wants to mislead Portuguese regarding the tax account that Portuguese families will pay next year, but the truth is not only the global tax burden does not go down as there are even articles that lead to the increase of various taxes. And the PSD, also in this debate, will demonstrate where these taxes increase. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u208	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal submitted by the Greens in relation to Article 144. the, in order to amend the IRS Code, aims to contribute to the objective that modern societies have an obligation to assume as absolutely central to the sustainability of their development, and this objective is the reduction of energy consumption. However, as we know, the transport sector is of decisive importance in this area and it is therefore necessary to create incentives and incentives for public transport to take on as a real alternative to the use of private transport. This is an indispensable premise in combating greenhouse gas emissions and therefore in combating climate change. For this purpose, the Greens propose a deduction in IRS of 100 % of the value of the VAT spent on the purchase of the monthly pass. thus, on the basis of this proposal, people who buy the monthly pass, because they regularly use public transport, will benefit from the tax point of view. I would also like to speak about another proposal of ours, which also has to do with this subject, the proposal for an addendum to Article 214. o -A, which wants the Sub23 pass to open up all university students with a discount on this title of transport and without any condition of appeal. The aim of this proposal is to create habits of use of public transport by young people, seeking that they do not feel the need to settle their mobility in the private car. This is therefore an important and advantageous proposal, both in the present and in the future, with regard to the necessary reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u210	Mrs Mariana Mortágua now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the former Government has left us several elements in the IRS Code that increase injustices and inequalities. The family quotient is one of them. The CDS does not recognise, unfortunately, that it would help much more to raise the minimum wage, that it receives thousands of young people in this country, and combat precariousness, because it does not allow young couples to have children, rather than create a fiscal rule in which a child of a wealthy family is worth more than a child of a poor family. That, yes, is the essence of inequality. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] This means that a rich family with the same number of children can deduce more than a poorer family with the same number of children!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u212	He's paying a lot more! Get that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u213	This has nothing to do with birth or fiscal justice. It's your opposite! The second element of injustice was the application of a surcharge of 3, 5 % on top of the IRS either to earn 600 €, 6000 € or 60 000 €. This is also an element of inequality, in addition to the increase in taxes it implies. The third way of including inequalities was through the inequalities related to the deduction, for example, of expenditure on education, in which those with children in the public have more difficulty in deducting education expenses than those with children in the private sector. The fourth element is the biggest, the huge increase in taxes resulting from the reduction in the number of steps, which amounted to an increase of EUR 2700 million to the former Government on the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u214	The gentlemen are keeping us! Why don't you revoke them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u215	Therefore, having much to do in the IRS to increase tax justice, and the Block has always had a large role of possible measures, there are some measures that are priority. The priority to achieve the minimum of fiscal justice is to reverse the measures that the previous right-wing government has left us in the IRS Code and we are walking towards it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u216	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u217	The family quotient has ended and has been replaced by a fixed deduction, which, yes, brings equality, and the overtax of IRS ends this year—90 % of taxpayers do not pay supertax in January and do not have to wait for 2019. The problem is solved. The problem of deductions in education already has an advance in this Budget and will be furthered in the near future, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u218	Families with children get worse, but that doesn't matter to the Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u219	For the future it is a commitment to also solve the problem of steps and thus reverse all the injustices that the previous government created in the IRS Code. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u220	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, IRS and taxes generally end up with public policy options. The CDS presented proposal 341 - C which is very clear about public rental policy. We understand that it makes sense to reduce the liberalization rate for residential income, making it more competitive compared to the liberalization rates of other types of investments, which has to do with the situation of cities in Portugal and with what must be a public policy that fosters renting— following the reform of the lease that was made by the previous government, also enabling another sector very relevant to urban rehabilitation. With this option, we make, from the point of view of public policies, more competitive renting and more competitive urban rehabilitation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u222	For an intervention, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Anacoreta Correia said that birth was next to this budget. The honourable Member then did not look at this budget. A few years ago, I heard a Social-Democrat minister, I think Swedish, who looked at the United States with some suffocation and said he didn't understand the obsession on the right to talk about the family, because she spoke little about the families but did a lot—and now, Mr Anacoreta Correia, for all families and not just for a few. * [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u224	See the CDS proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u225	The Socialist Party, in 2016 and 2017, if there is anything that has is a policy of promoting birth. Mr. Member, the Socialist Party in 2016, with the support of the majority supporting the Government, extended and increased the family allowance. Isn't that a birth policy, Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u226	See the CDS proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u227	This year we extended the allowance, which was paid only in the first year, to the first three years of life of children and up to 4. The stairwell. Is that or is it not a policy to support birth, Mr? [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party also has in its program, and is implementing, the generalization of preschool. Is that or is it not support for the family, sir? The Socialist Party, along with the majority supporting the Government, has as its main priorities the fight against precariousness because there is no instability that is compatible with birth. Is this or is it not a birth support measure, Mr? [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party also generalizes the freeness of the manuals of the 1. the cycle, thus lowering the frequency costs of public school to Portuguese families. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Is this or is it not a birth support measure, Mr? The Socialist Party reverses the cuts that you have made on the scales of equivalence in the value paid by children in the RSI (social income of insertion), which have also cut during your governance. Is this or is it not a birth support measure, Mr? The Socialist Party increased the minimum wage in 2016 and 2017, increasing the income of families. Is this, or is it not, also a measure to support births, Member of the Commission? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Deductions in public school meals will become deductible in IRS. Is this or is it not a measure of support for birth and Portuguese families, Member of the House? As you see, Mr President, we do not have to talk much and always walk with "the family in the mouth" to defend Portuguese families. But there is one thing that Portuguese families and children know: we not only support them, and much as we support them, and we will continue to support all families, without inequality, which you will never do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u228	Mr Cristóvão Crespo, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about IRS and we're talking about more taxes. at this time, the Portuguese have already realized that we will also pay more in the IRS, because not to update the deductions to collection is to increase taxes. If we do not increase the deductions of general expenditure we are raising taxes; if we do not increase the deductions on health expenditure we are raising taxes; if we do not increase the deductions on education and training costs we are raising taxes; if we do not increase the deduction on the requirement of turnover we are raising taxes; if we do not increase the deductible charges on households we are raising taxes; if we do not increase the deduction on dependent and upward charges we are raising taxes. In fact, this change in relation to the family quotient was also very timely to increase taxes, because if the family quotient existed, it would be done to update the deduction with dependents. Not so, you have frozen it, you have not increased it, and here we are also raising taxes. So from what we said back then, we are, in fact, also increasing the IRS. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u230	I now give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, making a State budget is making choices. And IRS choices were very clear to the government. There is an essential tax reduction, realized in the extinction of the overtax — which, in fact, in this formulation, already concentrates on its extinction to more than one million taxpayers from 1 January — and also on the correction of a set of injustices, such as, for example, on the joint taxation regime or, Mr Cristóvão Crespo, on the upgrade of the steps, to avoid what happened for three years at the inflation rate recorded, while in the three years of the PSD / CDS Government, after the reformulation of the steps, there was no update. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This Government shall for the second time update these steps at the rate of inflation recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u232	Down with inflation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u233	in this same line, the budget proposal will be enriched with a set of proposals that increase tax justice, presented by a set of parties, regarding deduction in public transport, the correction of the manifest inequality that existed between the deduction of school meals in the private sector and the deduction of school meals in public school, and the table of retention at the source of all those who are married single holders. Sir, what are the choices of the PSD and CDS? They are also very clear: reduction of the value added tax — PSD proposal; reduction of the tax on premiums paid by companies in the form of shares options;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u234	the workers of the companies themselves!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u235	... a reduction in the taxation of capital income by investing, in fact, what was one of the good conclusions of the 2014 tax reform, the neutrality of all capital taxation in the IRS Code ; finally, the recovery of the family quotient, with a speech which, Mr. Deputies, has no meaning, because it cannot be progressive a mechanism which by its very nature cannot give a penny — a cent that is! — two thirds of taxpayers who earn less. So this mechanism, for the two-thirds that earn less, is zero. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, as shown in the State Budget, it has essentially transferred gains to 10 % of higher income holders, contrary to the proposal that was introduced in the State Budget for 2016, and that we continue to support, which is the fair proposal for consideration of the size of the family, the proposal in which the State supports, in the tax system, each child by the same amount and not each child as much as the income of their parents. [[Congratulations from the PS and PCP Member Paulo Sá.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u236	He's more than a student!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u237	Those who don't pay IRS don't earn anything either!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u238	Does Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia agree to speak on this point?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u239	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u240	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, other members of the Government, Mr. Members: In fact, we have a lot of difficulty going beyond the assertion of differences and looking for arguments that are objective in trying to find solutions. Mr. João Galamba has invoked a Swedish minister here. It is unfortunate that you have not remembered, for example, your French socialist companions, who have already introduced the family quotient for more than 60 years, and the truth is that for more than 60 years this measure has been maintained, through left, right, right, socialists, Christian Democrats, more to right or more to left, but the truth is that no one proposes to change that measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u242	They're wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u243	Why? Because they recognize that it is an important measure, which effectively promotes taxation and effectively prints greater tax progressiveity — Mr. Secretary of State, this is being studied, I have before me the study of the European Commission — and therefore, as Mrs. Mariana Mortágua said, only for a desire to reverse everything, everything and something else, whether good or bad, is that this government has returned to this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u244	That's impossible! This is math!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u245	Thus, really, we are not able to look at the national interest and we only look at the party interest. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u246	We move on to the discussion of Article 148. o — IRS overload. Mr Cristóvão Crespo, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Sá and Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, I invite you to visit the IRS Code. There is something that does not play with what you have said. in Article 72. o -A of the said Code of Law « ceased to apply », i.e. the IRS Code refers to the termination of the validity of the supertax. Now, if it has ceased to exist, it does not exist. But in the proposed State budget law, Article 148. the reference « supertax ». So if there is overtax, there is an increase in taxes. Or isn't it? [[PSD applause.]] [[Rice from PCP Member Paulo Sá.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u248	We now move on to the discussion of Article 151. o — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons. Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after years of debate, promises, delays and increasingly serious problems for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, are more than when finally accepting the CFP proposal and moving towards concrete measures on special payment on behalf of the IRC. The CFP proposes the reduction of the special payment on behalf of the CFP, which is in fact the end of the CFP, pointing to its extinction in 2019, establishing the technical and scientific quotients applicable to the various branches of activity. It is a measure that we want to highlight the importance of responding to an authentic aberration that continues to infernify the lives of thousands and thousands of companies faced with a high tax burden and, in particular, with effective tax rates far higher than those applied to large businesses and economic groups. Speaking of which, the CDS now defends the reduction of the CFP. in the previous mandate they proposed, together with the PSD, the increase of the CFP to €1750 ; now, which are in opposition, they already propose its reduction.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u250	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u251	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u252	You think no one's remembered anymore, but you're very wrong. Another specific proposal of the CFP in this area is to update the value provided for in the law regarding the volume of sales of small businesses from which legal review of accounts is mandatory. What is in force is an out-of-date regime, which is quickly achieved by a small company which is thus entangled in this compulsory regime. What we propose is a very simple measure but with a huge impact on administrative simplification and which greatly reduces the familiar context costs of micro and small businesses. Updating the law, adapting it to reality, solving problems with concrete measures, is the proposal and contribution of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u253	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of all the economic variables, the one that is running worse in Portugal is the variable of investment. According to the latest INE data, after we had, in 2015, with a different government, sustained investment growth of 5 %, the truth is that in 2016, during the first and second quarters and already in a set of subsequent months, investment in Portugal continues to fall and falls very steeply. This should lead the Ministry of Economics and the Government of Portugal to realize that in fact there is a problem in the investment we have. That is why the CDS proposals on economic matters have focused very much on helping Portuguese companies and foreign companies who want to invest in Portugal have a set of incentives for this same investment. Many of these proposals will be discussed over the next few days, such as, for example, the super-tax credit or the end of the additional tax to the IMI, but one of the proposals that is very relevant to us is the resumption of a planned downturn negotiated in this Parliament of the IRC rate for companies. This measure was announced, internally and externally, as being crucial to attracting investment. This measure is very important for us to recover investment, because without investment recovery we will never have sustained economic growth. This measure is for the Socialist Party to finally honor the word it has given. We have often heard the PS say « the word given is an honest word». They should honor the word they gave to the Portuguese, to the investors, when they said they were available to lower the IRS rate and then, unfortunately, they revoked that same word. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u255	Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is an article in which there is an increase in taxes in the case of local accommodation. It's a paradigmatic case. It is true that tourism has been one of the causes that justify our growth over recent years and it is also true that even last year we had a record of, according to INE data, 17 million tourists going through Portugal. And one of the reasons is, without a doubt, the creation of the local housing scheme, but, as in other areas, if the area is succeeding, if it is creating wealth and generating jobs, the answer the government has to give is precisely to charge with taxes. And this is another example in which it seems clear that the government clearly has a prejudice towards the success of the private initiative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u257	It's the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u258	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I support the truth about the CFP (special payment on account), which means that it is false that the previous government has proposed an increase, quite the contrary. This issue was discussed during the work on IRC reform but in this reform, both the government and the PSD, and the CDS, not only did they not increase the CFP as they exempted from the payment of the CFP many thousands of companies with simplified accounting. That is the truth, and you rightly omit it, in order to disturb, and much, the discussion. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u261	As for the CDS proposal, I can explain it. It is clear that no one in this House will want the PEC, because it is not the most obvious way of taxing companies, even because it is an advance. But it is precisely because the previous government has made reforms, and profound reforms, at the level of invoicing and computerization, especially to combat tax fraud and avoidance, which we can now move towards systems where there is much less presumption and advance and more taxation of real income, which is what we all want. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u262	You wanted to walk in the opposite direction!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u263	If we wanted to increase we would have increased, we had a majority for that! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u264	If it were you, Mr President, it would take a more constructive and less destructive position. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u265	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u266	Mr President, I have requested the floor to request the distribution of a document in the form of an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u267	You then have the floor to speak to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u268	Mr President, I asked for Law No 175 / XII from the previous Government to be distributed in my possession where Article 106. the, if the PEC increases to €1750.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u269	Mr President, please send this document to the Bureau, which will be distributed. Mrs Cecilia Meireles also asked for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u270	For the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u271	To call on the Bureau, therefore. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u272	Mr President, he also called on the Bureau to distribute to the House the final version of this diploma, which was obviously approved with the votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS, where there is clearly no increase in the PEC and is this exemption that I have spoken about and that the honourable Member continues to omit because it is not appropriate for him.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u273	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Documents sent by parliamentary groups to the Bureau shall be distributed. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to Chapter XI — Indirect taxes. It is entered in order to intervene on Article 154. on the amendment to the value added tax code, Mrs Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party submits two proposals relating to the VAT Code with a significant impact on health. We therefore propose, on the one hand, that VAT exemptions cover the services provided by dental prosthetics and the transmission of prosthetics. We know that this has been a topic discussed because currently the transmission of the prosthetics is not covered but only the activity. It is therefore clear, and in accordance with the Community directive on this subject, that, from next year onwards, dental prostheses carried out by dentists or dental prosthetics are also covered by the exemption from the VAT code. We also propose that the glucose meter, needles, syringes and pens for insulin should be subject to a reduced rate of VAT by 6 %. We know that there are new devices to control blood glucose and not only the traditional strips, and it is absolutely necessary for the control of this disease, with great expression in the Portuguese population, that patients can also use these new devices. We know that in Portugal there are more than 1 million people with diabetes. We also know that this is one of the priorities for the decade and for the future in the country. A program is under way « Say No to Diabetes », launched by the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation and supported by the Association for the Protection of Diabetes of Portugal ( APDP ), and this is a measure, now in the fiscal area, which complements the work that the Government has done to combat this disease, which is undoubtedly one of the most worrying of our National Health Service. On the other hand, the measures we have already referred to in the area of dental prostheses also complement a new policy in the area of oral health. We know that for the first time a government is responding to citizens in primary health care units, in health centres, which for the first time will have these oral health services, which will make all the difference from now on at the level of our children. Oral health was one of the major gaps of the National Health Service, but this government, with the aim of strengthening the National Health Service and providing access to quality services for all, has been promoting it. These are, therefore, complementary measures, now from a fiscal point of view, for the health promotion policies we have been developing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u275	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, our proposal for an addition to Article 154. o -A as well as another relating to Article 174. o -A, aim to contribute to the recently made announcement by the Prime Minister in Marrakesh, during COP22, 22. the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Indeed, in this important Conference, the Prime Minister announced Portugal's goal of reaching 2050 with neutrality in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. This is therefore an important announcement that the Greens consider to be noble. But in this global fight, savings and energy efficiency are of absolutely crucial importance, and this fight will only be achieved if we start now. It is to this end that the Greens propose the creation of incentives for the adaptation of buildings for energy efficiency purposes. Therefore, our proposal aims to create incentives for the acquisition of materials and equipment that promote a substantial reduction in energy consumption. The same is true of our proposal for an addendum to Article 174. o -A, which aims to create incentives for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to invest in energy efficiency. These are, therefore, important proposals which aim to contribute to two objectives: on the one hand, to fully comply with what was agreed in terms of climate change in the Paris Agreement, and on the other, to make the announcement made by the Prime Minister in Marrakesh, Portugal, to reach 2050 with carbon neutrality. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u277	Mrs. Members, also with regard to the proposal for an addendum to Article 154. o -A — Amendment to List I annexed to the Tax Code on Added Value, has the floor of Mrs. Deputy Ángela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this government makes announcements and propagates intentions, but the fight against diabetes was a priority of the previous government. The evidence is that between 2011 and 2015 diabetes deaths have decreased by more than 4 % and health care in the diabetic population has increased, as well as observation of the diabetic foot. As a result of these policies, Portugal had, last year, one of the lowest OECD rates of diabetes-consuming hospitalizations. But in this fight, there is also great merit for social sector entities, such as the Portuguese Diabetic Protection Association ( APDP ), which provides integrated and specialized care to more than 30,000 patients with diabetes. This association provides such care under a protocol, which was also concluded by the previous Government, and it is certain that this protocol will end at the end of 2016. For many months the PSD has been insisting that this social-communist government —... [[PS protests.]] ...—yes, social-communist! — fulfil your duty and renew without delay the protocol with this Association. But the truth is that for months now this government has been drawing up, pressuring and trying to suffocate this Association, which is truly a global example of what must be done in the fight against disease and in the treatment of diabetics. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, even if they do not like to listen, we are one month from the end of the year and the PSD requires this government to stop instrumentalizing and sacrificing the patients, threatening to cut off the important support they receive from this Association. We demand that the Government put aside the ideological prejudices that move this new left-wing front against everything that is of society and solidarity initiative. People are not objects and diabetic patients deserve better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u279	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I was a bit disturbed by this speech by Mrs Deputy, because we have a protocol with APDP, which is to be signed, probably on Monday or Tuesday. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u281	That's wonderful!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u282	Yesterday I was reading it, finally, to avoid scratches, etc. , and is fully agreed with APDP and will be signed on Monday or Tuesday. Please speak to the APDP direction,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u283	We've talked!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u284	... instead of making interventions of this nature, a little out of date. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u285	Let's move on to Article 161. o — Amendment to the Code of Special Consumption Taxes. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this State budget introduces fiscal stability in the main taxes — IRS, IRC and VAT — and then we have excise duties ( IEC ), which are selective taxes, the aim of which is not only or primarily tax revenue, is to change the behaviour of economic operators in a positive way, whether they are consumers or businesses. I want to talk here mainly about two proposals, both from the Government and from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in this matter. The first has to do with a new tax, which is the tax on sugared beverages. I recall that the World Health Organization ( WHO) has launched an appeal in October of this year for all countries to launch taxes on sugared drinks. This for a simple reason: it is that, as we have now talked about diabetes, more important than treating diabetes, is to prevent diabetes. And one of the ways — not the only one, of course — to prevent diabetes is to increase taxation on this type of product. I therefore hope that the PSD and CDS will join the parliamentary majority in supporting this government and will vote in favour of our proposal for this tax. A second special consumption tax I wanted to talk about has to do with the liquid of electronic cigarettes and electronic cigarettes versus traditional cigarettes. Interestingly—and this also shows the autonomy of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group in relation to the Government—the Government has proposed a slight increase in this tax, but we are proposing, I stress, half the tax on the net of nicotine from electronic cigarettes. And why? Because the rationality of these taxes is in fact, as I mentioned at the outset, to tax undesirable behaviour. It happens that the liquid of electronic cigarettes does not have tobacco—it has nicotine, but does not have tobacco—and what actually kills people is tobacco. Therefore, the new challenge I leave to the opposition benches is a drop in taxes on the liquid, because precisely the liquid does not contain tobacco but only nicotine. To conclude, I would just say that the Socialist Party, in this State budget, takes measures in special consumer taxes to promote public health and individual well-being, so we hope that all banks will join in the approval of these taxes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u287	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the verge of 2017 and we are a country that is said to be developed. It is not understandable that we continue to burn fossil fuels to produce electricity. Worse, it is not understandable that they are exempt from the payment of taxes on petroleum products by the companies that do so. It is urgent, therefore, to prioritize the implementation of a roadmap for decarbonization in Portugal. The NAP thus presents a proposal that eliminates this unjustified exemption, generating a revenue for the State in about 10 million euros a year. The importance of this measure is reinforced by the latest report of the European Environment Agency and by the data of the Portuguese Environment Agency, which indicate that air quality in Portugal has deteriorated again in the last year, exceeding the recommended limits. We cannot continue to outsource the costs of burning fossil fuels for the health of citizens and for ecosystems. Even today, with the approval of a reduced rate on these industries, Parliament can begin to materialise the commitment expressed by the Prime Minister at COP22, and very well: that of making Portugal a country decarbonized in 2050. If the goal is this, let's move on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u289	Mrs. Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to point out that there is still an increase in various taxes in this article.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u291	Let us turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 163. o -A — Discount on the price of gasoline consumed in small artisanal and coastal fishing. For an intervention, Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the approval of this proposal, supported by the Socialist Party's bench and by this Government, demonstrates the great concern that we have with artisanal fishing, always so forgotten. An example of this forgetfulness are the Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS and the former right-wing Government. Supporting artisanal fishing with a discount regime on the price of gasoline used in small motors allows greater security in this type of fishing, reducing professional hazards, as well as access to colourful diesel, so necessary in tractors that, on earth, are used for the collection of networks. These are important steps that help a fishing class so whipped by poverty, where children and the elderly are the most affected. The approval by my bank and the Socialist Government of these proposals, for which for years we have been fighting in this House, and thanks to which we are going to take important steps today in relation to artisanal fishing, demonstrates once again our commitment not to drop the social, economic, environmental and cultural dimension of this class. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u293	Mr João Ramos, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u294	Mr President, in fishing, many vessels use petrol engines, since only they guarantee the speed and vital driving force to enter the sea safely. Since there is no petrol at a reduced rate, this fleet has unequal treatment in access to fuels. The CFP considers that these vessels should not be discriminated against negatively and therefore proposes the application of a discount scheme at the final price of gasoline consumed on small craft and coastal vessels equivalent to what exists for gas oil consumed in fishing. For many years, the CFP has been alerting us to this problem and, therefore, for many years, it has been presenting proposals to solve it. The majority governments in the Assembly of the Republic had so far not had this availability. We welcome the possibility of this problem being solved now. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u295	We turn to Article 166. o — Amendment to the Code of Vehicle Tax. Mrs. Rubina Berardo from the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, I would like to point out and make it clear that there is an increase in taxes here. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-25.u297	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further inscriptions, it remains to be announced that the next session will take place on Monday, 28, at 10 a.m., with the continuation of the debate, in the specialty, of Bill No 37 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017 and is first discussed and voted on the rules avoked by the plenary. The work is closed. I wish you a good weekend. [[It was 13 hours and 9 minutes.]]
