ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Officers of the authority who open the galleries. If there's no file to read, we're going straight into the agenda. Mrs. Members of the first item on the agenda include the joint discussion of draft resolution No 67 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the conduct of an external and independent audit of Banif, the evolution of the Bank's value and the recapitalisation measures by the Bank ( January 2013 ) and the sale of its activity to Santander Totta ( December 2015 ) ( PSD ) and parliamentary investigations ( 1 / XIII. ( a ) — Possible parliamentary inquiry into Banif's management, the procedure leading to the application of the resolution and alienation of its activity and its consequences ( PSD ), 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a parliamentary commission to investigate the proceedings leading to the sale and resolution of the Banco Internacional do Funchal ( Banif ) ( PS, BE, CCP and Os Verde ) and 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into management and the process leading to the sale and resolution of the Banif International Bank ( CDS-PP ). Mrs. Members, the PSD was the party that took the initiative to schedule this issue, so I give the floor, first of all, to Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than EUR 3000 million, more than €400 per taxpayer, almost a month of taxes paid by the Portuguese—this is at least for now Banif's bill. It is too big a burden for us not to act, too important for doubt and too serious to remain so that in this Parliament we do not make a total effort to clarify and cooperate institutionally above party interests. This is another enormous effort required by the Portuguese to solve things that have gone wrong in the financial system, due to market failures, perhaps also of public intervention, which are very expensive and which we need to assess to prevent them from repeating. It is, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not be condemned, as a country and as a people, to this and more of this! Therefore, the PSD took the initiative for full, thorough and informed clarification of the Banif case. in fact, we have taken the initiative and proposed two different, but complementary, years of thorough learning of the truth: an external and independent audit of the Banif process ; and the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. In fact, we have already asked for it here in December, and now we propose to conduct an external and independent audit. In order to have a technical and specialized evaluation of what has happened and, independently, to be carried out impartially, without political or partisan criteria or criteria and without depending on the authorities involved in the process - in fact, an audit does not replace but complements and may even help the committee of inquiry. It is us, PSD, that we ask for it and propose it, but truly, it is the country that asks for this external and independent audit. And no one would understand that anyone would refuse it, as if there was something to hide.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u3	You've been hiding!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u4	The country needs an external audit, an independent external audit, as it needs an inquiry committee, which can investigate everything and everyone, without taboos and without reservations, prays to whom it hurts! For the PSD, our only commitment is to the truth,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u5	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u6	... because in this Banif process there are many doubts that mean billions of euros of taxpayers. We want to investigate the work of all: Banif administrations, supervisors, in particular the Banco de Portugal, governments, without exception, and European institutions. We want to investigate all the relevant facts. Nothing should escape scrutiny and no responsibility can be borne out, because the doubts are so many, in particular: why such a large invoice in a Bank of this size? Why in this case were taxpayers called to pay the bill? What management practices have caused fatal imbalances for Banif? How did supervision work or not? Why did the State recapitalize the Bank in 2013? What has been done since then? What restructuring measures have actually been taken? Why was voluntary sales not made at the end of 2015 before much better proposals that would provide taxpayers' money? What impact has it had on the public square? What about the news that caused the first race to the deposits we've seen in Portugal? Why was Banif’s assets devalued 66%, exploding the invoice for taxpayers, but delivering the potential gain to banks? Why is this jackpot for Santander, which only pays EUR 150 million, to receive a clean bank, with assets close to EUR 10 billion and a guarantee from the state of 750 million, but without giving any guarantee of the future to the workers? Is this really to solve Banif or capitalize Santander? How are State aid called for to halt other much better offers, but Santander has already been able to receive a bank, at a balance price, and with a huge injection of taxpayers? But, after all, what have they done and wanted the European institutions, especially the Commission and the ECB? Why, within two weeks, did the Portuguese authorities use two pesos and two measures, with the external confidence of Portugal? in Banif, the government preferred to impose the losses on taxpayers by saving creditors; in the New Bank at the same time, with a week of difference, taxpayers were saved and some creditors were sacrificed selectively. We didn't have any better alternatives? Couldn't we save the taxpayers? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are immense doubts, many facts, many speakers and certainly various responsibilities. It is up to us all to be as demanding in the clearance as serious and loyal in this exercise. Our criterion cannot be the interest, it must be the truth! PSD's here for that, and that's why. We have taken the initiative, but we want the implementation to be of everyone and with everyone. [[PSD and CDS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u7	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Deputies Miguel Tiago, PCP, João Galamba, PS, and Mariana Mortágua, BE. Mr António Leitão Amaro, how do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u8	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u9	You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mr Miguel Tiago.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u10	Mr President, Mr António Leitão Amaro, in his speech, has forgotten to address a whole past that brings us here. in fact, if some of the questions put to us must be the target of the greatest possible scrutiny by this House — and the CFP will do everything to do so; it will be committed to the committee of inquiry to be, precisely so that there is no limitation to the outcome of the facts and political conclusions that it is important to withdraw — we cannot, from now on assume that the past does not matter to this problem. The honourable Member certainly omitted, deliberately, that the former Government did not lend to Banif bankers more than EUR 1000 million, which did absolutely nothing to recover part of this money, which did not accompany Banif's management despite the state already being Banif's largest shareholder — in fact, at a certain point, almost the only shareholder of Banif — which was a bank held by public capital on the option of the Government which, in particular, the honourable Member was integrating. You said nothing about that. In fact, your Government has resigned from accompanying and, worse, it has allowed the Bank to continue its management without any control, without giving account to the government, without even publicly telling what it was doing, if it did something. The CFP has questioned the Government several times in this House, particularly through Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, Secretary-General of the Party, and other Members in the Committee on Budgets. We have always had the opportunity to confront the government with this matter, questioning what was being done in Banif, and the answer was always « there is nothing to do in Banif! Everything's fine in Banif! Do not keep on seeking. ” It is true that Banif was handed over almost to Santander, it remains to know if it was not the PSD/CDS government that everything did to hide the problem, so that it could be possible. I would like to leave you with the following question, Mr President: why did you hide the problem? Why did you pretend everything was okay in Banif? Was it to throw the garbage from the banks under the rug to pretend that the troika's clean exit was real? It was to pretend that everything had gone well in the alleged ransom, that, in fact, it was a kidnapping of the rights of the Portuguese and that it shot at the bank billions of euros at the expense of wages, income and rights of the Portuguese people and nothing resolved? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u11	To request clarification, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u12	Mr President, Mr Leitão Amaro, the hurry with which you have scheduled this matter and your intervention are the perfect expression of the PSD's poor conscience on this subject. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He spoke of the need to ascertain everything, the availability of the PSD to go to the bottom of the issues, the responsibility of various actors and institutions. Obviously, this is a subject that the PS accompanies, because we also want to clear up the responsibility of all actors and actors, but we really want to clear up the responsibility of all actors and actors. He was able to make an intervention of about 6 minutes in which he spoke about the responsibility of many people, but there was a responsibility he did not mention, which was to have been a government of his party—and of the CDS now—who hid information, contrary to the opinion of the European Commission, that this Parliament was unaware of—this Parliament was never told that the European Commission disagreed with Banif's recapitalisation in terms of 1 January 2013—which he hid that there were problems during the three years... It is that there was no problem last week before the resolution; Banif's actions had devalued 97 %! Repeat: 97%! This until the date of entry into office of this Government : 26 November. It wasn't all right, sir! Far from it! On the other hand, he also hid here that there were deadlines defined by the European Commission, that there were solutions – which could be good or bad, we will assess this in the committee of inquiry presented in December 2014 and that his Government and the Minister of Finance have hidden this from the Portuguese and this Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u13	The honourable Member has said nothing about that! He did not mention that pushing a problem with the belly for three years increases costs, devalues assets and creates uncertainty. It is because the problem has been resolved for the eve of the amendment of European rules and it has suddenly become public only when the new government has taken office, when the previous government has systematically devalued that there is even a problem. We have not asked either, two or three times, Mrs Finance Minister, in the Committee on Budget, and Mr Prime Minister, in this plenary, what was going on with Banif, what was being done with Banif and the only thing they were telling us was that everything was quiet, that there was no problem! But suddenly there was a huge problem and an urgent decision had to be taken, with a definite deadline. And the current government has done something — that we know and is a fact: it has done what you didn't want or know how to do for three years! This has costs and must be assumed by the PSD and the CDS and of course is a fundamental part of the work that we will be doing in the committee of inquiry. So if you really want to figure out what happened, there is one thing you can't do: to pretend that it wasn't the PSD and CDS that were ruling over the last three years; to pretend that it wasn't the PSD and CDS that decided to put money there under the conditions we know; to pretend that it wasn't the PSD and CDS that hid the negotiation process with the European Commission, which hid deadlines defined by the European Commission ; and to pretend not to know that all these facts had enormous costs for taxpayers. There are costs for taxpayers we know that they were created and by whom : they were created by the PSD government and the CDS, who hid the problem for three years. It would be good for you, Mr President, to recognize this fact. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u14	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u15	Mr President, Mr Leitão Amaro, I would like to return to you exactly the questions you asked this House : why in January 2013 they injected EUR 1100 million into Banif and why did they appoint a non-executive administrator with more than 90 % control of the Bank? Why did they allow an increase in capital of EUR 100 million in June 2013? Why did they allow, in June 2013, a restructuring plan that has never been advanced? Why did they allow a new increase in capital in July 2013? Why did they allow a new increase in capital in August 2013? Why did they ignore a letter from the European Commission on 31 March 2014 which argued that the State should convert the bonds to capital and have voting rights in the Bank? Why did they allow a new increase in capital in May 2014? Why, in October 2014, did they allow a restructuring plan that was dropped by Brussels? Why did they allow the deadline to return the obligations they had injected into Banif in December 2014? Why did they ignore another letter from DG Comp ( Directorate-General for Competition from the European Commission ) in December 2014 saying that the October plan did not meet requirements and impose a new limit on the restructuring plan? Why have on March 29, 2015 exceeded another limit imposed by DG Comp for the last eight restructuring plan that has always been dropped? Why was the new restructuring plan presented to DG Comp on September 29, 2015 once again? Why did we arrive until November 2015 with an unresolved problem? Mr Deputy, in this debate, who has to answer the questions you are, is who you have been in the government. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] The honourable Member cannot have been in a government for three years, which has injected EUR 1100 million into Banif, has spent months and months and months of decisions, has ignored Brussels pressures and come here with the distinct possibility of pointing the blame to which he has been in government for two months. It is not possible to accept this whitening of responsibilities. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Responding to these questions, he answers the eight restructuring plans exceeded, he responds whenever the government came to the public saying that it was all right with Banif, which allowed Banif to sell debt, which allowed Banif to create injuries and that he did nothing. Who has responsibilities, who has to answer before this House, is the government that you have incorporated. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u16	To reply, Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members Miguel Tiago, Mariana Mortágua and João Galamba, I thank your questions, which were not well asked, were more conclusions. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen tried to do a strange exercise here, which is to start and finish the commission of inquiry in 6 minutes. Mr. Miguel Tiago, I think you must have been distracted and should not have heard what I said. We do not fear and, more importantly, we want everyone's responsibilities to be investigated and assessed: administrations, supervisors and all governments without exception. We want a clear understanding of the truth, prays to whom it hurts,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u18	...and for that we do not draw conclusions before the committee of inquiry is completed. That smells so bad, it seems that if you want to distract, it seems that if you want to divert attention. Mr. João Galamba, then the relationship with Brussels is a relationship and the decisions of Brussels are decisions of one government and not of the other? Oh, my God! The taxes are one and not the other? Oh, my God! Who signed the check was one government and not the other? Oh, my God! Mr. João Galamba, we ask the Members. Members not to start this committee of inquiry and this external audit at the end. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the answers we will have in the committee of inquiry and I want both these answers as well as Mrs Mortágua. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u19	I want so much, I want no less! The bill is too big! So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been only one question that you have not answered. We already know that we all want the committee of inquiry. And the independent and external audit wants or don't want it? Are you afraid of something? Is there anything to hide? For us there is nothing, everything must be evaluated, pray to whom it hurts! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u20	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing the establishment of a committee of inquiry to Banif because in practice we have seen in recent years a deliberate sleepiness and an opportunistic and intolerable defamation of the previous PSD / CDS coalition, in relation to the situation of the Bank. We therefore misunderstand that the PSD and the CDS hide the deep and irreversible rotting of Banif, between 2013 and 2015, of which are the main responsible, proposing a parliamentary inquiry that has as its main focus the resolution that took place at the end of 2015, throwing under the carpet the outrage of history built over these three years, filled with inversities, concealments and disquiets that are the main authors. in fact, when the said coalition decided to inject EUR 1100 million into the Bank, in January 2013, contrary to all the indications of the European authorities, who always doubted the viability of the banking institution, the PSD and the CDS showed at that time that they were willing to react resiliently in the intransigent defence of financial interests, but never showed the same attitude with pensioners, public servants, beneficiaries of social benefits or young people. With these, where there was a wide range of weaker sectors of society, they have always revealed an incomprehensible attitude of meeting demands of austerity, some of them perfectly unfounded. But this partial resilience proved to be a heavy burden for the Portuguese, because the public recapitalisation of the Bank was approved with a clear and known condition: to present a credible plan for restructuring Banif, a plan that never appeared. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem begins here and this is where the country needs to know the whole truth. That is why the PS, since the first hour, after having been obliged in just three weeks of government to make a necessarily bad decision for taxpayers, has also decided that nothing can be left as before with regard to the financial system and its supervision. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thus, in the middle of this surprising and unexpected crisis, the Prime Minister and the PS parliamentary leader have categorically stated that we would present a proposal for the installation of a commission of inquiry, in order to assess with the depth and with the required transparency, what happened throughout all this time that Banif was defining and becoming an elephant that would come from the laissez all of the supposed immaculate balance of a virtual clean out of the troika. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in practice, this controversial Banif case has a lot clear and a world of things to clarify and clarify. Let us start from what is very clear: firstly, it is very clear that the decision of the PS government was at least the worst of two possible bad solutions. Secondly, it is very clear that the PS Government has been obliged to decide very quickly, weakening the entire negotiation process, taking into account the restrictions imposed by the European authorities. It is also clear that the ECB would withdraw Banif's counterparty status by preventing the Bank from accessing the euro system to ensure the necessary liquidity and that the banking supervisory mechanism withdrew the Banif's license, thus preventing the Bank from continuing the business from doing so. It is also very clear that the European Commission proposed to the Portuguese Government on 12 December 2014 in a letter sent to the then Minister of Finance a solution for Banif which, according to the proposal, would allow for the recovery of all State aid or, at least, will remunerate it accordingly. It is also clear that the Government has submitted eight restructuring plans, all of which have been returned by the European authorities because they do not meet the basic sustainability requirements. Finally, it is also clear that the government failed to sell Banif voluntarily, compromising a cleaner and less costly solution for taxpayers. Since it seems more or less obvious that these facts do not deserve objective objection, and of course may be the target of political rhetoric, there is, in other cases, a set of doubts and lack of clarity that require concrete answers, in order to ensure accountability for those who have not guarded public money and the safeguard of the taxpayer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in practice, it is important to understand better, in the context of a parliamentary inquiry, among other things: knowing the Portuguese Government of the PSD/CDS coalition that recapitalisation of Banif involved a commitment with the European Commission to demonstrate its viability and sustainability in the long term, why was it not observed for three years the right and appropriate commitment to avoid a change in the size that ended? [[P.S.'s applause.]] What are the real reasons for the government and supervision to have pushed Banif's problems, creating a financial swamp of undefined consequences yet to be fully defined? Why have the required restructuring plans submitted not consistently complied with the requirements required by the European authorities? Were they only wrong or simply because, at some point, it would be easy to hide the political mud around this situation for election benefit? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also important to know, finally, why the Portuguese Government hid from the country and never responded to the letter from the European authorities, by signaling the announced clean exit of the troika, which ended up being the flag of the electoral propaganda of the PSD / CDS coalition, refusing the implementation of a more favourable solution to the taxpayer if it was taken at that time. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I end by recalling that the PS did not turn its backs on the Portuguese; that the PS makes difficult decisions, but does so transparently, showing the game, clarifying the paths and defending the taxpayer. We're not even gonna cry because of the surprises we've been in since we got to the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u22	Oh! ...that's to laugh!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u23	...but don't ask us to assume the responsibilities we don't have. Banif is today a serious case of losses to the taxpayer because the PSD/CDS coalition government opted for the political-party umbrella, neglecting the interest of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u24	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has applied for clarification, but Mr Carlos Pereira no longer has time to answer. I ask Mrs Mariana Mortágua whether she wants to make the request for clarification. If you want, you have every right to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u25	Mr President, as I think I am the next speaker to speak, and since you do not have time to answer, I will turn my request for clarification into an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u26	All right. You have the floor, then, for an intervention, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the question that we all ask today is the following: how is it possible to see ourselves once again in the sad situation of voting on the constitution of another parliamentary committee of inquiry to another bankrupt bank? How much more is it possible to present this bill to the people, after the BPP, after the BPN, after the BES? It said a report by the ECB itself that has been in total EUR 19 500 million injected into banks since 2011. To get an idea, EUR 19 500 million paid more than the entire SNS for two years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u28	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u29	Mr Duarte Marques said here yesterday, I do not know whether by mistake or neglect, that the state invested money in the bank, and I think it touched on the essential point. This lapse or distraction is the essential point of discussion. It is that the State could in fact have used this money to clean up the banking system, to strategically control the bank, so that the bank could fulfil its constitutional plan, in fact, to have a finance at the service of the economy and an economy at the service of the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u30	And then, yes, Mr Duarte Marques would have been right, it would have been investment, investment to have a bank at the service of the people and at the service of the country. But that's not what was done. What was done was to thoroughly bury billions of public money in bankrupt banks that were then handed over to other banks at a balance price. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u31	And the gentlemen. Members who have allowed these operations to take place until they can honestly find that they are solving a problem, but of course they are not, they are feeding a monster that will always be too great to fail. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we specifically enter the Banif case, we can anticipate a conclusion. It is true that the culprits of bad management are the bankers and the managers. This was the case at BES, that was the case at BPP, that was the case at BPN, and that will be the case at Banif. But as much or more responsible are those who let bankers do what they understand well and are always willing to pay the check with taxpayers' money. They're so much more responsible than the bankers! [[Congratulations from BE.]] We entered now in January 2016 and can conclude that Banif's check was once again heavy: EUR 3000 million to deliver a clean bank to Santander. And someone has to have responsibility for this! We cannot continue to watch this childhood game of having the Banco de Portugal throwing the blame on the European Commission, the European Commission throwing the blame on the former government, the former government throwing the blame on the current government, the current government saying two months later that it was left without solutions and Banif's administration saying that the blame is on the Banco de Portugal. We can no longer allow this step-by-step, when it comes to the end and no one is responsible, no one gives a face to the decisions that have been made. And there are questions that need answers. What caused the injection of EUR 1100 million in Banif in January 2013? How was it possible for the former government to control the majority of Banif's capital for three years and to be content with the appointment of a non-executive administrator who would see Banif's views, without ever having had a de facto intervention in Banif's role? As is possible — and the letters appear — we have assisted eight restructuring plans, all of them plunged by Brussels, while Brussels sent successive letters to the Government, saying « transform the CoCo(conversionable bonds) into Bank capital, control the Bank's capital, transform the Bank into a regional bank, liquidate the Bank ». There have been several proposals! The problem is that the government has ignored all and, while ignoring all, has told the people: "Don't worry that Banif is safe, the money will be returned." We all remember how Rabbit Steps came to the public to put the General Deposit Box in question—it was daring to put the General Deposit Box in question, in public! — because he did not return the money that had been injected, and now we know that, at the same time, he had Banif's case in the secretary and never said it in public, he always protected Banif, always wanted to pretend that there was no problem. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, while they were doing so, while leaving the clock to count, according to the second, until the end time, Banif issued debt and capital. And there were people who believed it was all right in Banif and they bought that debt and that capital. What is the responsibility of a government that knows everything is wrong and not only does it say what happens as it does nothing to change the situation? Oh, my God! That is a responsibility that needs to be taken care of. It has to be hurryed! But we can and must also take care of the responsibilities of the solution that has been found. How was it possible to reach this situation? And the question that everyone is asking is this: how do EUR 1100 million turn into EUR 3000 million? What other solutions existed? What is the real value of the Bank? Who actually ordered this situation? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I was going to ask the Socialist Party this question — I can't help it: what is this? As the Banco de Portugal tells us that it has taken a decision to sell Banif to Santander on 20 December, it has not finished the deadline — this has been said to us — and we today have opened a newspaper and we know that there is an e-mail from the European Commission for the Minister of Finance on 19 December, saying that the European Commission has already decided, that the European Commission has been very clear and therefore recommends that we do not even waste time on the other proposals and that the European Commission will start working directly with Santander as soon as the authorities are ready to prepare this process. What's this? What is a European Commission, which goes above a government, which goes above the Banco de Portugal and decides, before the Banco de Portugal decides, what does Portugal do with its banking system and how does Portugal inject 3000 million into its banking system? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they are so, so, so engrossed in the responsibilities that they have to hardly hear a question from the PS, they are soon excited. Take it easy! Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u32	It's not a ball!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u33	It is that the responsibilities of the Socialist Party do not obligate the responsibilities of the PSD and the CDS! Don't isolate them! They don't think they're wrong, because they don't! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the last question that needs to be asked and the last point that needs to be clarified is the future. And this is the most skeptical question we ask: and the future?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u34	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u35	I will finish, Mr. President. In all the committees of inquiry, we present here serious proposals to change legislation, but they are always always, always plunged by those who then come here to say: "How was this possible? How was it possible again? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u37	Mr António Leitão Amaro, I would like to tell you very clearly on the question you have raised here, that you come here to exercise, in order to propose an external audit, which cannot, in real time, have conclusions within the area of the Committee of Inquiry, because there is no time. What you are saying is that you will propose an external audit for, throughout the Committee of Inquiry, postpone and empty the Committee of Inquiry,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u38	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u39	...waiting for an external audit. It's a trick! It's a trick!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u40	We want to hide! [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u41	That is why Mr António Leitão Amaro, I will tell you one thing: there will be an external audit and it will be the first proposal that the Left Block will make within the committee of inquiry, but not here, as a trick! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u42	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP endorses the draft for the establishment of a committee of inquiry on Banif's management and the process leading to its resolution, as well as on all decisions related to this process. And we subscribe to it, first of all, because it is increasingly incomprehensible to the generality of Portuguese people because it is that for the banks there is always all resources and, to ensure the regular functioning of the State and democracy all resources fail; because it is increasingly incomprehensible because wages, pensions, the generality of Portuguese rights, the National Health Service and schools are increasingly distant from the population and, however, with all ease, the successive governments, over time, rescue the banks, not responding to the needs of the country, but to the needs of the institution, the shareholders of the institution, the private interests that control it, thus placing the public resources at the mercy of the bankers' caprices, of their adventures. This is a risk-free entrepreneurship for bankers, because they know they always count on governments, when they are in trouble, when they divert money from their depositors or when they commit credit, without risk assessment, to give credit to their own friends. This committee of inquiry will have to deal with all the cases brought to us here, either with the Bank's internal management — how it was possible to unbalance the Bank's balance sheet, to the extent that it required EUR 3000 million to recapitalise the institution and to deliver, as it was handed over to another institution — or with what the previous government did to safeguard the public interest, when it committed EUR 1100 million to that institution and resigned from its management or even to accompany, or why the former government lied and hid from the Portuguese the internal situation of Banif, omiting, including that there were already eight restructuring plans presented,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u44	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u45	... when this was asked, on several occasions, in the Assembly of the Republic, especially by the Communist Party of Portugal, either about why the leaders told us not to worry, because lending that money to Banif was a good business. We all remember that the Governor of Banco de Portugal, anchored and supported by the government, told the Portuguese not to worry, because not only Banif had no problems, like that loan was a great investment and would make 10 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u46	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u47	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u48	We, now, like to know who was going to pay those 10 percent! [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] And who was going to pay for the capital that was lost! It is because the former government has decided to commit that money, without any counterpart, to the management of a bank. He could have appointed managers, and he didn't appoint them, he could have had a role in administration, and he didn't. The PSD/CDS Government is now trying to escape its responsibilities through proposals from the parliamentary boards of its parties, such as the proposal for an audit. Let us see: the PSD and CDS benches now want to call the same companies that hide the problems, so that they come to discover the problems in advance, before the work of a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u50	Those who over the years have worked to hide the problems that existed within Banif are exactly those that the PSD and the CDS want to call, to hide, perhaps, the problems of previous governments. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] from the PCP, they do not have any support in this maneuver. Mrs. Finally, I would like to say this: the CFP will do everything to ensure that this committee of inquiry is no longer one. But we all said this in the case of BES! And in the case of BPN, the problem was regulation! Then, in the case of BES, the problem was the banker, who deceived everyone. Until when are you guys? Ladies and gentlemen will walk, from committee of inquiry to committee of inquiry, hiding that the problem is capitalism... [[PSD laughter.]] ... and that this is capitalism, that the banks, in the hands of private shareholders, serve the interests of private shareholders, regardless of the public interest? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, sylogism is becoming simpler and simpler. If the shareholders and those who control the banks use them in their behalf and we, the Portuguese people and the country, we need the banks in our favor, the solution is only one: be us, the Portuguese people, their shareholders! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u51	The Bureau has no requests for clarification from Mr Miguel Tiago, so it has the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the Banif case and on the process that led to its outcome, we know of some facts, we know of some omissions and we know some data. But there's a lot to clarify. We do not know, for example, how much this Banif process will cost taxpayers, but we know that at least EUR 3500 million is the minimum bill that the Portuguese will have to bear. Let us see how : it is EUR 2105 million of public support, already withdrawing the EUR 150 million that Santander paid for Banif, but there are still EUR 746 million in guarantees to Santander and the vehicle that will remain with the real estate assets, i.e. the assets that Santander did not want and which are intended to be sold, such as participation in the Azores or Banif Malta. In addition, it is still necessary to add the 825 million State aid which will be payable and which concerns the EUR 1100 million that the PSD/CDS Government injected into Banif in 2013, of which only returned to the state's 275 million coffers. Therefore, as a balance sheet for this intervention, Portuguese taxpayers will have to pay at least EUR 3500 million. That's what we know! But we know more! We know that the bad state of Banif has long been known to the PSD/CDS government. And we also know that if the problem had been dealt with earlier, the costs for taxpayers would be much lower. And if Banif's problem has not been taken up sooner, responsibility can only be attributed to the PSD/CDS government. The PSD/CDS government has irresponsibly deferred the problem with the clear purpose of creating the illusion of the so-called "clean exit", as further witnesses the exchange of correspondence between the former Government and the European Commission, dated December 2014, and where attention was drawn to the Bank's fragility and the need for immediate intervention. But the previous PSD/CDS government not only postponed the Banif problem but also hid it, of the many times it has faced the issue, including here in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. In addition, it is not surprising that a government that in 2013 injects EUR 1100 million public in a bank has not been concerned or made the slightest effort to ensure the success of Banif's various restructuring plans.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u53	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u54	Just as it is strange that Banif entered into non-compliance with the Portuguese State at the beginning of 2015 and the former Government did nothing to ensure that Banif took on its responsibilities with the Portuguese State. We also know that the previous government was notified of the state aid investigation process established by the European Commission on 24 July last year, which could be considered illegal State support to Banif.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u55	Well remembered! [[Applause from The Greens and the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u56	We also know that the PSD/CDS Government was aware that, from 1 January this year, a new regulatory framework for banking resolution would enter into force. And we also know that the previous Government failed to make a commitment to submit a restructuring plan, which should have been delivered until March last year. Finally, we also know that the PSD/CDS government, throughout this process, has taken a very clear but very painful option for taxpayers. The option was to let go, push forward, hide Banif's problem, not only thinking about such "clean exit", but also thinking about the elections that were coming there. [[Applause from The Greens and the PS.]] However, this option of the PSD/CDS Government is completely unqualified, not only because the PSD/CDS Government has not taken up the problem it should have solved, but also because this option would inflate, and much so, the fact that the Portuguese now have to bear the responsibility of the previous government, for the liabilities of the European Commission, for the lack of supervision, and also for the irresponsibility of the bankers. The option of the previous government was in fact the application of the maximum « who comes back to turn off the light ». And so it was! The problem is over for the current government,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u57	...who, badly took possession, sought to solve the problem, laid hands on the work... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u58	He's alive!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u59	The current government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, he tried to solve the problem, put his hands to work, to find a solution, a good or bad solution—which, in fact, you have signed up, because, as Mr Pedro Passos Coelho said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u60	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u61	... if you were in the government, you would make the same decision—but you sought a solution, tried to solve a problem created and pushed by the previous government, the PSD government and the CDS. As it is known, the Greens, recognizing the commitment and speed with which the current government has dealt with the problem, refused to call taxpayers to pay the bill of such irresponsibility: the irresponsibleness of the bankers, but also the irresponsibleness of the previous government, the PSD / CDS. And so they voted against the Reformary Budget, because, as we said at the time, that Reformary Budget was more the last Reformary Budget of the previous PSD/CDS Government than the first Reformary Budget of the current Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We therefore know a lot about this Banif process, but there is still much to be clarified. There are many facts to be found, in particular the grounds that justified and led to Banif's recapitalisation in January 2013. Therefore, it is important to ascertain the responsibilities of all government entities and all regulatory entities involved, since the decision of the public recapitalisation of Banif. However, as far as there is a lack of clarity, the Greens have submitted the request for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to the procedure which led to Banif's sale and resolution, because it may be that this time the blame does not die loose, because the Portuguese do not deserve both punishment and then everything remains in it, as if nothing had happened. We have heard here Mr. PSD's Member, Antonio Leitão Amaro, say that there were those who hid. Mr President, may this committee of inquiry also tell us who has hidden what! [[Applause from The Greens, the PS and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u62	To speak on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are here today in a debate that should not exist, not because its object is not relevant, but because the problem that gives rise to it is a recurring problem, which, unfortunately, we have all committed ourselves, in this Parliament, not to happen again! It is very important to realize that after BPN, after BPP, after BCP and after BES, it is not acceptable—and that is a responsibility for all of us—that taxpayers have to look again at Parliament to be able to know what happened again in a bank of the Portuguese financial system. This is a responsibility of the State and the entire State must answer for it. It is a reflection that needs to go beyond this Parliament, because this Parliament has invariably assumed responsibilities, but it is a reflection that the State has to make at the level of its supervisory bodies, at the level of the functioning of the justice system and also at the level of relations with the European institutions, in view of the responsibility that the European institutions now have in the financial system. With the exercise of this committee of inquiry, we can do what the country expects of us and in which it seems that most of the parliamentary groups are interested, i.e., a pass-book game, we will be here to find out if this is more the fault of the previous government or if it is more the blame of the current government. The country no longer has great hope for politicians, and therefore it hopes that we will play this game. But we must be a little above this perplexity that the Portuguese have for us. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u64	We must make a difference! We must make a difference and show that Parliament can bring to the end a serious task of responsibilities and facts that are essential to realize what is actually at stake. We can do what we have already been able to do in this Parliament — it is not even nothing new — on other occasions. I recall the work of Members such as Mr John Semedo, Mr Honorio Novo or Mr Nuno Teixeira de Melo, in previous committees of inquiry on the financial system, or — let me point out — Mr Nuno Teixeira de Melo, only to speak of Members who do not exercise their mandate at the moment. The country recalls the work that each of them did, in order to show what happened in some financial institutions in Portugal, the responsibilities that were on the side of the supervision and what should have had consequences, at the level of the justice system, so that the Portuguese felt that, effectively, those with responsibility are held accountable and respond to what they did at every moment. Specifically, with regard to Banif, we have to figure out consequences for those who have created the problems that currently exist for people who have their savings in Banif and for the workers of the institution itself. We will not rest unless we know that the guarantees given to the workers are effectively fulfilled. This concerns us at this time and has not yet been mentioned here. It is very important to know that both those who will pass to Santander and those who will stay on the vehicle created by the current government have guaranteed their rights as workers. And it is also important to know that those who had their savings there, many of them migrants who trusted in a financial institution, are also protected to the limit of what can be protected. Then we have to figure out a number of questions, and we need to figure out what led the Bank to this situation. We cannot begin the analysis only when the State intervenes, it is necessary to know why a financial institution, which is a financial institution supervised and accompanied by the Banco de Portugal, which is responsible for the permanent monitoring of its situation, reaches a state of these. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u65	It is then necessary to ascertain the need of the State to have made a capital injection, i.e. that at first it had to inject taxpayers'money into the Bank. Why did it happen? How did it happen? Was it done in proportion or not? [[CDS-PP applause.]] Next, it is also essential to realize that, from the moment the State puts money on taxpayers in a financial institution, it must carry out a serious and, if necessary, intervention in the management of that financial institution. It is therefore necessary to ascertain whether the State, from the time it put money on taxpayers in Banif, has properly accompanied and intervened on the bank's daily basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u67	Then we need to know the nature of the restructuring projects that have been drawn up successively and submitted to the European bodies and clearly what the responses of the European bodies were. It is very important that we know that for a long time the European Commission understood that Banif was not viable and that the understanding that it was not viable led to a settlement solution. And the fact that successive restructuring projects have been carried out has avoided this liquidation, has avoided the dismissal of all Banif workers and has avoided the loss of deposits of all Banif depositors. Therefore, we must be careful, not only to ascertain the merit of the restructuring projects, but also not to ignore that the fact that there is such a discussion with the European Commission has prevented the European Commission from achieving its objective of liquidating the Bank, which would have had tragic consequences that none of us would, of course, defend. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Then we also need to know the options and conditions of the resolution that has been made by this government, from the moment on. The moment at which the Bank was settled is not indifferent, and it is not indifferent to external facts. It is essential to know why it happened, as it was that a leak of information occurred which precipitated the leak of deposits and the loss of the counterpart status by Banif.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u69	We are not interested in knowing from the media, which certainly did their work; we are interested to know from the State. And so far, since there are so few people who know what was going on in the negotiating process, we have no guarantee that the government is committed to knowing...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u71	... how such crucial information reaches the public and allows such a rapid degradation of the Bank's situation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u73	... obliging a resolution other than that which could have been made in the existing legislative framework at that time, but even worse, obliging a resolution in terms of legislation which would be replaced a few days later, i.e. requiring the exclusion of legislation which entered into force on 1 January and which was much more protective of taxpayers' rights. All of this is very serious responsibilities to be lightened. And they cannot even be imputed to those who have divulged them, because they have done their work as a media agency, but they must be charged to whom, by serving the State, they have allowed a leak of information that could never have happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u74	Well remembered! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u75	Then we must also clarify the terms in which the division of responsibilities between the State through taxpayers and the financial system through the Resolution Fund has been made. It is essential to know why the option taken for Banif is substantially different from that taken for BES, without being here to label the option of BES as one government and the option of Banif as another. It is important to look, objectively, at the facts: it is not the same as the effort required by taxpayers in Banif compared to what happened at BES ; in Banif a much greater effort is required for taxpayers. Why? What justifies it? Were there alternatives or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u77	Then the alternatives for sale. Why Santander? Is that why the government chose? Is that why the European Commission has made it? Oh, my God! None of these solutions are acceptable! We need to consider what solutions there were and, knowing that there were solutions, the only possible solution was that it was best for Portuguese taxpayers, even if this involved some divergence with the European Commission. This is what happened to the nine restructuring projects! In response to the first restructuring project, we could also have said: "Okay. So the European Commission does not accept restructuring, we are going to liquidate the Bank". What the government seems to have done, before imposing the Santander solution, was to say: "Okay. So we're going to negotiate with Santander and we're going to sell to Santander because the European Commission says it's Santander." That is not possible, much less from a government that said it was going to hit Europe! It was conformed to the first solution that appeared to him and sold under conditions that are very questionable. It is very important that we also assess the terms in which the Bank's assets were considered, whether or not it was a good assessment. It is essential that we find out which intervention has — and I will finish, Mr President — the Banco de Portugal and the European Commission throughout this process. If we do all this, we will be choosing the right path, from between the two I pointed out at the beginning.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u78	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u79	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I was saying, if we do all this, we will be choosing the right path, from between the two I pointed out at the beginning, we will not be blaming governments, we will be rendering a serious service to the Portuguese citizens. If we go the opposite way, if we want to win the best government championship to deal with the situation, we will give the citizens a terrible service and we will not help to clarify what has happened, much less to what will not happen again in the future. And from now on, perhaps, we will be here again regretting having another committee of inquiry. in this case, if we go through the game of pass-backs, the guilt will not fail to be also a bit of our own. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u80	The Bureau did not register entries for requests for clarification, so I have the floor for a second speech, Mr Miguel Tiago.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the audit to which I have said a little while ago, I would like to say that on the side of the CFP this proposal from the PSD will not count on our support. Firstly, because external audits are precisely the mechanisms used — and we have seen this in successive committees of inquiry — to hide the problems over the years. And for another reason, Mr. Members — and we can say here: 'Of course, but this would be commissioned by the Assembly of the Republic, so it will be more reliable' — which is that an external audit of this nature is now up to the Bank of Portugal to ascertain all the facts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u83	from the PCP, even we believe that the Banco de Portugal should have its own means to carry out its audits, as we have proposed. Mr Leitão Amaro now claims that he does, and I am glad he does, but when we proposed this in the previous Parliament, the PSD and the CDS voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u84	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u85	We believe that the Banco de Portugal should be able to carry out its own audits without having to hire companies, without having to hire the same companies that cheated him for years. For example, in the case of BES, we recall that the Banco de Portugal was deceived for about a decade by an external audit company that hid the internal problems of BES, which only communicated them internally and did not reveal them to the Banco de Portugal. It is therefore, at least, charged that the Banco de Portugal is obliged to use these companies to detect the problems of the bank, but this clearly reveals the inadequacies or, better, the incapacity of the supervisory system. Supervision is a kind of quality seal in a poisoned product. Supervision knows the product is poisoned, but you can't say it. He knows he's poisoned, but he's forced to say that Portuguese can trust that product. And that's what brought us here. We want to forge confidence in a system that does not deserve the confidence of the Portuguese and this system is the financial system in the hands of private shareholders. The only way, Mr. João Almeida, that we must ensure that in the future we will not be confronted with the need to set up new committees of inquiry to find out new facts about new bank failures and new public aid is to stop this cycle of allowing the bank to be in the hands of private people, because we cannot afford this luxury. The Portuguese state, the Portuguese can't afford the luxury of a banker to own a bank! We must call upon us to manage credit and money. The public control of the bank is the only instrument that enables us to ensure that we will no longer have committees of inquiry. But more than that, it also enables us to use credit, money and credit flows at the service of the economy, of small and medium-sized enterprises, of production, of families, by responding to the problems of the country and not diverting billions of euros to satellite companies as the bank itself does, as bankers do and as we have seen in the committees of inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u86	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u87	Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, to conclude, the PCP also did not enter, nor did it, in the past, enter pass-book games.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u88	That's why I spoke of Honorio Novo!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u89	We don't say that the fault is this, it's that or that! That's not our perspective. But one thing is right, Mr President: we are also fed up with the fact that there is no fault of anyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u91	And we will do everything possible to ensure that political responsibility — a more appropriate term than guilt — is achieved. And, in our view, political responsibility is very clear: it is from right-wing policies, from submission to the guidelines of the European Commission and from subordination to the functioning of a financial system that is in the hands of private persons, which is held captive by private interests and which therefore also captures the interests of the State. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u92	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, I think two messages to the Portuguese have been made clear. The first is: before a proposal for Parliament to carry out an independent external audit...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u94	No matter who? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u95	... even to the role of the supervisor and that therefore cannot be under the reach of the Banco de Portugal, the parties that support the government say: 'Don't think'! And that means something! There are parties that say: « We have nothing to hide, we want there to be a technical evaluation of everything that has happened ». But there are political actors who want this discussion to take place only in political space.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u96	That's not true! I reacted to that, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u97	Who are they afraid of? What are you guys trying to hide? Who want to protect? That's something you should answer! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Second message: we will move forward with an inquiry committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u98	You know that the Banco de Portugal has external audits every year!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u99	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have begun wrong in the committee of inquiry when there are Members who say that everything is very clear, as Mr Carlos Pereira said, and that is why they are already withdrawing the conclusions before the committee starts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u100	That's not true! That's not how it was said!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u101	at the very least, for the sake of Parliament and itself, I suggest that you apologize for participating in this committee, because those who already have the conclusions should not take part in an act like what we are going to initiate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u102	Sorry about the bad payer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u103	Then they forget or tried to forget the parties that support the government that Banif's problem arose before the previous government, it developed during the previous government and still existed later.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u104	Yeah, you don't care!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u105	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u106	You just want to focus on time, so you want to safeguard a government. You do not want to know the truth, you want to safeguard the government that you are supporting, and that is a shame for Portuguese democracy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u107	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the joint discussion of draft resolution No 67 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PSD ) and parliamentary investigations ( 1 / XIII ) ( 1. ( a ) ( PSD ), 2 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PS, BE, PCP and Os Verdes ) and 3 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ). Before we begin the next point, I ask the Secretary to read the file. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u108	Mr President, I inform you that you have entered the Bureau, and it has been admitted, draft resolution No 98 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes the consecration of a new mission for the Working Conditions Authority ( Acts ), amending its scope of action, strengthening its powers and providing it with more means to combat precariousness ( BE ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u109	We will then enter the second item on our agenda, which consists in the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein. 56 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extends access to invalidity and old-age pensions for workers of the National Uranio Company and reserves the right to an emerging compensation for occupational disease or death ( BE ), 53 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Access to Invalidity and Speed Pensions by Workers of the National Uranio Company, SA, providing for the right to death or sickness compensation ( PCP ) and 60 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amended by Decree-Law No 28 / 2005 of 10 February 2005 on the Legal Regime of Access to Invalidity and Speed Pensions by Workers of the National Uranio Company ( UNE ), SA, and establishes the right to compensation in case of occupational disease or death ( The Greens ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the miners of Urgeiriza, the former workers of the National Uranio Company, and to tell them that the struggle they have fought over these 15 years is a fair struggle that has deserved and that continues to deserve our solidarity. I would also like to greet the widows of these workers who are in the galleries of the Assembly of the Republic to attend the plenary. Your struggle is an example of dignity for the country and the persistence of your struggle is a lesson for all of us. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP and Os Verdes.]] That's right, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that nothing can replace the lives of those who have died, but the families who have been abused by the aftermath of uranium mines deserve our respect, deserve to be compensated for the suffering of which they have been victims, and we must honour their struggle with a concrete answer. The exploitation of uranium mines was a reality throughout the 20th century. The National Uranio Company has been in charge of exploiting uranium mines since 1977, entered the liquidation process in 2001 and finally closed in 2004, leaving not only an environmental liability but serious social consequences such as diseases caused by radioactivity, cancer, and mourning. We must be clear: these more than one hundred miners who have already died, have died from a professional disease. It was the exposure to radioactive materials and the contamination it caused, it was its work and the conditions in which they exercised it that put an end to their lives. The ENU was a State company. The workers did not choose the conditions in which they worked and therefore occupational diseases and early death must be compensated. Since 2002 the Left Block has been accompanying this struggle and has brought this cause to the Portuguese Parliament, but also at the level of the European Parliament. in this process and with the struggle of the former workers of the UNE and their families, we have achieved some achievements, including the anticipation of the retirement age, access to disability pensions, medical follow-up. But there was an injustice that always remained, which was the fact that the workers who were not in office at the time of the closure of the company were excluded from some of these rights...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u111	I'm sorry to interrupt, sir, but there's a lot of noise in the room. I'm asking the ladies. Members who create the conditions for the speaker to be heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. It was this problem of compensation that has never been solved and that is the problem that we have to answer. The Left Block preferred that this process be terminated today with the approval of these bills, because these workers and families have already marched, have already protested, have too often entered a bus to come to Lisbon to fight for it. They've already held meetings, assemblies, petitions. They've already had written commitments. It's time we solved this problem. These projects will be brought down to committee, because there is a commitment on the part of the parties that constitute the parliamentary majority and on the part of the Government to find a concrete solution within the next 30 days. Too long ago, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these people are waiting for a concrete solution. We don't have the right to defraud. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u113	To present the PCP bill, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group warmly welcomes the former workers of uranium mines and their families present in the galleries and also appreciates the persistent and courageous struggle these workers have had over the years to defend their rights. So it was with the struggle to achieve the right to early retirement. So it was with the struggle for permanent and free health care. This is because of the right to compensation for death or illness. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the former workers of the uranium mines of Urgeiriza, in the municipality of them, Viseu, property of the National Uranio Company, were seeing the disappearance of more than one and a half hundred companions, as a result of the impact that exposure to radiation has caused on the health and life of miners and their families. The struggles developed by these miners, for which the CFP was the first to draw attention and give body and sequence, led us to the conquest in the Assembly of the Republic in 2010 of the right to early reform and to permanent and free follow-up care due to the recognition of the increased risk of the health of these workers, due to their work within the mines, mining annexes and facilities affected by this exploitation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u115	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u116	A third measure is still lacking because of the risk of exposure of miners to uranium, which has not yet been met and for which miners have been fighting for several years: the right to fair compensation for sickness or the death of former workers. This measure will be the State's contribution to the health and well-being of former miners, as well as to that of their families who, in the event of family death, will be completely unprotected and with whom the State has obligations and responsibilities. It is therefore urgent to resolve this situation, since the health condition of these former miners, which is proven to be attributable to the radioactivity to which they were exposed and whose dramatic influence can be verified through several studies, deteriorates every day that passes. The PSD/CDS-PP government in the last legislation rejected the previous PCP initiative, thus preventing the access of former workers in Urgeirice to a fundamental right: the right to fair compensation for death or illness to workers subject to radioactivity in the exercise of their professions. The CFP also considers that this compensation should be extended to miners, even to those who had already ceased their employment link with the UN when this company was dissolved. in fact, these miners were also exposed to the same risks as the other workers and also suffer the adverse consequences of their work activity in contact with radiation, regardless of the date of the diagnosis.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u117	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u118	With the introduction of this bill, the PCP restores justice to the workers, ensuring that the State assumes its responsibilities to this group of workers and to their families. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP reaffirms that it is urgent to resolve this situation, which is more than it has been known for too long, in which families and workers are in a situation that cannot wait any longer. It's time to act now! Let's have some courage! Let justice be done! May the State compensate those who gave him health and life. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u119	To present the Green Bill, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are for, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, to greet all the former workers of the National Uranio Company, in particular those who are here with us today to accompany the work, and a greeting which naturally extends also to the families of these workers. It's true. The problem of the former workers of the National Uranium Company, UNE, returns to plenary again. And again the discussion for a simple reason: it is that the problem of these workers is not yet fully solved. As we know, uranium mining activity in Portugal has left an environmental liability too heavy, with risks to public health that last over time, given the radioactive potential of this mineral. On the other hand, the workers who served at the service of the UN have developed their professional activity within a uranium mine or in support of this mine, therefore subject to very exhausting and deeply harmful working conditions for health. And the consequences for the health of these workers and for an extended set of premature deaths is a notorious and undeniable reality. In fact, over the years, former UNES workers have been subject to deep State injustices, which have come, the truth is said, to be corrected slowly, but not yet fully. in fact, Decree-Law No. 28 / 2005 extended the application to some UNNB workers of the special scheme for access to pensions of disability and old age to miners and Law No. 10 / 2010, in turn, extended the universe of the workers of UNNB covered by that scheme as well as the obligation of medical follow-up. There is, however, a consequence of this regime and the confirmation of the danger to which these workers were subject, which is empty and which urgently needs to be filled, from the outset the right to compensation in the event of a diagnosis of occupational disease. In addition, the current regime also discriminates against workers who, although they had performed functions in the mining areas affected by the exploitation of the UNSCR, were not bound to the company at the time of their dissolution. In fact, although Law No 10 / 2010 has also allowed to cover workers who, in the event of termination of a contract prior to the dissolution of the UN, have worked there for a period not less than four years, however, continues to limit access by some UNE workers to the special scheme for access to disability and old age pensions for mine workers. These are two aspects which have not yet been corrected and which are required to be, if we understand that the State is a responsible person and that it is a good person. The Greens have always been with the former workers of the UNES and the people affected in defending their rights, giving shape to their struggle with parliamentary initiatives, so that the State justly recognizes and corrects these injustices. in this sense, the Greens Ecological Party proposes, through this legislative initiative, to extend the access of former UNNU workers to the special scheme for access to disability and old age pensions for workers in the interior or underground mining, including those who have carried out an exclusive or predominantly supportive activity. under this bill, the Greens also propose to establish the right to compensation to former UNEN workers, covered by Decree-Law No 28/2005, when they are diagnosed with occupational disease and death, in accordance with existing legislation. These are the objectives of the present Greens Ecological Party initiative and we will now expect that the problem of former UNES workers will finally be resolved once and for all. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u121	For an intervention, Mr. João Paulo Rebelo, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u122	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: We are now discussing initiatives submitted by the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens aimed at changes to the legal regime for access to pensions for disabled and old-age workers of the ENU, National Uranio Company, and also at the recognition of a right to death and sickness benefits. In preparing this intervention, I came across a role of initiatives presented in this House that range from draft laws to draft resolutions, through questions and demands, which will only find parallel in the number of years that have been fighting the former mine workers exploited by the UN. I must commend these workers for their resilience, their ability to fight and not give up their goals over all these years. I must also acknowledge in this House the work which various Members and successive governments have done and which is consistent with the legal framework we have today and which is, from the point of view of the recognition of rights to these workers, far from the point of departure of their struggle. The right to early retirement age, initially recognised only to workers linked to the date of the dissolution of the company, subsequently recognised to all former workers with a minimum of four jobs, as well as access to free and permanent health care and monitoring, is an example of the evolution of this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u124	It is also true that, despite several legislative attempts in recent years, there are still injustices to be rectified. If it is true that, in the past, it has not been possible to find a solution to these injustices, we have today a political framework which allows that solution to be found. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Indeed, Mr President, the Socialist Party, although it may have some doubts in the formula of some of the proposals put forward, I certainly stress that it undoubtedly agrees with its basis. That is how Mr President, in this framework, the PS undertakes to implement a solution to this problem, in dialogue with the parties now proposing these bills but, above all, in dialogue with the former workers and their families.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u125	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u126	I'm done now, Mr. President. Our commitment is, therefore, that, during the discussion on the specialty, we seek a solution that meets the demands of these workers who have dedicated to the Portuguese State years of work in the known circumstances, unfortunately paying the high price of premature death many times. [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u127	Mrs. Isaura Pedro, from the PSD, has the floor of Mrs. Isaura Pedro, who is the first intervention she will make in plenary, and I wish for many happinesss. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. If you will allow me, Mr President, to begin by welcoming the former workers of the UNES here, recognizing the value of their work and their contribution to the development of their council. The PSD has been monitoring and helping to resolve former miners' concerns for several years and our work has been guided by consistency and truth in the treatment of issues related to their legitimate claims. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After the definitive closure of the National Uranio Company and the uranium exploitation, cases of neoplasia have indeed arisen in former workers exposed to mining, transport and treatment. In 2002 the Minurar study was conducted on the impact of uranium and its residues on the health of the population, but it was unfortunately directed only to the surrounding community of mining units, having not conducted any study into the universe of former workers and miners.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u129	What's not missing are studies!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u130	On the other hand, the health intervention program that is being applied to workers and their families is not a diagnostic surveillance program but, rather, an evaluation and control of the health status of the affected population. In addition, Mr. President, Mr. Members, whom the latest legislative amendment in this context has broadened its scope to workers who have exercised support functions or activities in the mining and mining areas, affecting the exploitation of the UN, recognizing that these workers have developed their professional activity subject to a risk aggravated by constant exposure to radiation and environments with radon. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the risk has been severely aggravated, now recognised by decree-law. In line with the above in May 2013, the draft resolution submitted by the PSD and the CDS recommends that the Government undertake a scientific study to the universe of former workers and miners, in order to measure the harmful influence of exposure to uranium and, at the same time, to promote a quantification of the financial impact of a possible compensatory process to be attributed to the former workers of the UN and to develop rigorous, fair and equitable criteria in its applicability. It is therefore fundamental in the name of coherence, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to continue this recommendation, that we should all combine our efforts to resolve the aspirations, which we consider fair, of these workers, but we know that justice is done only with rigour and criteria. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u131	Before giving the floor to Mr Hélder Amaral, I would like to insist again with the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen standing, some back to the Bureau, to do the favor of sitting or leaving the Chamber. You have the floor, Mr Hélder Amaral, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin by congratulating the former UNES workers here, some of whom I have known for many years. A short time ago, Mr. João Paulo Rebelo said that this matter had had many initiatives. If I don't miss my memory, I must remember that it was about 34 initiatives. There are two aspects I'd like to highlight. The first is the consistency of the CDS in this matter. The CDS does not, it has never done and will not demagogy or political combat with the suffering of workers of uranium mines in Urgeirice, unlike other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u134	There is something that provokes me with some outrage: the Greens Ecological Party, the Left Block and the CFP bring initiatives, say that it is urgent, that it is necessary to treat, that it has already been too long, but does not then make demands for the initiatives to be brought down to the Commission without a vote to discuss the speciality? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u135	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u136	It is good for the workers to know that if this matter is not settled here today, it is because you are going to make a request for initiatives to bring the Commission down again to discuss this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u137	All right! It's management!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u138	And what did the PSD/CDS government do in four years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u139	We'll talk about it in 15 days!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u140	Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, I'll give you another one. If any evolution existed or if some rights were given to these workers it was because the PSD and the CDS took the initiative and achieved consensus, because in 2009 it was the Socialist majority party and voted against the solution that is in force today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u141	All right! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u142	In 2010, yes, with the collaboration of the CDS and PSD, we were able to extend the medical treatment to all workers who were in the mine and later to workers who were in the annexes or mining facilities. Obviously, there was a difference between the PSD and the CDS regarding duration. We propose, if I do not miss my memory, five years of bonding and stayed in four years. And why this deadline? Because it was what scientific evidence determined that it would cause damage to workers who were exposed to uranium. We have always been on the side of the solution, we have always been on the side of the workers finding just solutions, feasible solutions, without demagogy and without riding the legitimate suffering of the workers, some of them are here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u143	But we said that we had to go further, we had to improve and we presented a resolution to comply with Law No. 10/2010 on free medical treatment for relatives, because there were evidently doubts that it was being executed. And we put pressure on a government that was supported by us. So we've never been out of this fight, and we're not gonna be.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u145	for the same reason, we also requested, as has already been said, a study that would take into account what could possibly be done to extend the scope of support for workers, families and, obviously, also those who worked closely and those who had no link to the company, despite little working time, but outside four or five years, a period that scientific evidence says has to be taken into account for the possibility of being affected by this type of disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u146	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u147	I will finish, Mr. President. Since there are scientific studies, since there is scientific evidence, the CDS is obviously available to study and extend any assistance to these workers. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do what you think they should do but, for God's sake, do not use this matter, which is sensitive in them, which is sensitive in Canas, which is sensitive to workers, as a weapon of political throwing. That can't be, it's not good for them, and we're not in this fight. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u148	Mr José Soeiro has the floor for a very quick intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Hélder Amaral said that they were and will always be on the side of the solutions. Welcome, because these projects that are being discussed today have been appreciated in the previous Legislature and the CDS and PSD voted against. So welcome!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u151	Welcome to the solution side! [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] It is that there is a difference between saying that it is necessary to study and make decisions. And we're in the time when we have to make decisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u152	Let's vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u153	These projects will be down for 15 days to the Commission, so that a solution is found and, therefore, within 15 days, the CDS and PSD will have the opportunity to vote in favour of this solution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u154	Mrs. Members, concluded the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 56 / XIII ( 1. ( BE ), 53 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 60 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( The Greens ), we will generally move on to the joint discussion of the projects of lein. 67 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the deadlines and criteria for the formation of application of plant protection products ( First amendment to Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April regulating the distribution, sale and application of plant protection products for professional use and adjuvants of plant protection products and defining the monitoring procedures for the use of plant protection products by transposing Directive 2009 / 128 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October establishing a framework for action at Community level for the sustainable use of pesticides and repealing Law No 10 / 93 of 6 April and Decree-Law No 173 / 2005 of 21 October ( BE ), 54 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the deadlines laid down in Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April regulating the distribution, sale and application of plant protection products ( PCP ) and 103 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April regulating the distribution, sale and application of plant protection products for professional use and adjuvants of plant protection products and defines monitoring procedures for the use of plant protection products ( PAN ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The delay in promulgating the law regulating the distribution, sale and application of plant protection products, Law No. 26/2013, four years after issuing the European Union directive determining it, has left farmers, regional agricultural departments and all training entities just over two years to prepare and implement training actions throughout the country. The evidence of knowledge that was of high importance to farmers over 65 years of age until April 2013 and that allowed them to access this qualification more easily only had an approved order in March 2015 and started its application only in mid-June 2015. It was too long lost. The time was already scarce but, above all, the ministry of the PSD/CDS-PP government did little to mobilize farmers and other actors to achieve the goal. No sufficient information actions have been promoted, nor have regional human resources agriculture guidelines been provided to respond to their demands. To aggravate a reality that every day announced its own collapse, at the end of the period which would impose the compulsory training on 26 November of last year, in April 2015, the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary gave instructions to suspend approvals of training actions. The training institutions had to submit to a new certification process and so they lost more than a few months in the final line of application of the Law. It would be difficult for the Christian Assumption ministry to reveal greater disregard and more disrespect for farmers and technical bodies that have to speed up the process and face it. During the months preceding the legal deadline for obtaining this authorization, the hopelessness of farmers combined suspicions of the conditions under which cards are sometimes obtained to apply. Regional management of agriculture does not have sufficient human resources to carry out monitoring actions and this is also the responsibility of the previous government. With the current Government, Decree-Law No 254 / 2015 is useful immediately because it enables the continuation of agricultural activities by 31 May this year, on the basis of the issue of a certificate of registration, but we already find the remaining measures provided for in this diploma to be very questionable, since they do not respond to various problems inherited. Training, which previously had a size of 35 hours, with periods dedicated to agricultural mechanization and with a practical component, lost training hours and lost the whole practical component of the two trainers. On the other hand, the programmatic content of the first module is impossible to perform in just four hours. In addition, the frequency of this first module provides for a two-year qualification, leaving its continuity dependent on the subsequent frequency in the 25-hour module. So we are seriously at risk that for two years now we will be dealing with the problems we are facing today. But one of the biggest problems created by Law No. 26/2013 is the fact that legislation treats the great farmer and the citizen who has some fruit trees at home or simply a garden or a yard. The bill presented here by the Left Block responds to all of these situations, as it extends the deadline provided for by Law No. 26/2013 — which, however, has already ended — until the end of 2016. On the other hand, it maintains the structure of the course and preserves its necessary quality, without creating instability to the normal functioning of the regional agricultural directorates and the formations that are already underway.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u156	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u157	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, it extends the evidence of knowledge to all those currently over 65 years old and to small farmers and citizens who only occasionally deal with such products, making their qualification more accessible and the measure, as a whole, more effective. We believe, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this bill of the Left Block adopts the most appropriate procedures to overcome the problems identified in the formation of fitofarms applicators. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u158	To present the bill of the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss Law No. 26 / 2013 of 11 April, which regulates the distribution, sale and application of plant protection products. During the legislative process initiated in July 2012, the CFP Parliamentary Group presented a set of reservations to the proposed law, in particular because it is too extensive and loaded with technical and scientific issues that should be specified in regulations and by omitting the precautionary principle and the concept of integrated protection, such an important integrated element of plant health development. These and other concerns were presented by the experts heard at the centre of discussion in the specialty. The impossibility of resolving the issues pointed out led to the fact that the initial abstention of the CFP, in general, turned into a vote against, in a comprehensive final vote, complexity and bureaucracy that one of the projects we are debating today still stands out and will therefore not deserve our approval. Law No. 26 / 2013 requires that from 26 November 2015 only the sale and application of plant protection products to qualified applicators would be permitted. It is necessary to carry out a training action and the subsequent issue of a card. There is no question of the need for training, even because of the risks arising from the toxicity of pesticides, which are high for the environment, for public health and also for farmers. On the other hand, pesticides are now applied cross-sectionally in agriculture and other activities. In many cases, without pesticides the yield of agricultural activity would be seriously affected. Since the Law was published in April 2013, a period has been provided for the authorization of all applicators to be able to handle the products. However, this training and qualification process has not reached a significant number of farmers. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Sea replied to the CFP, in March 2015, saying that since 2006 43,000 farmers had trained in pesticides and, at the end of the first quarter of 2015, the Ministry reported that only 56,500 cards were issued to apply. Several organisations point to 200 000 farmers who still need training. In addition to these, non-farmer operators are still in need of training, such as government officials and agricultural workers. They were the Ministry's own services that recognized the impracticability of 26 November. In April, a regional direction of agriculture already recognized the need for an extension of the deadline for the authorisation of plant protection products. The entry into force of the card requirement for the purchase and application of fitofarms created despair in many farmers who did not find a response to their demand for training, but also the Ministry services were unable to issue many of the cards in good time. Today, of course, the PSD/CDS Government has not taken the necessary measures to ensure that legislation is complied with. We know that, by order, the government has already minimized the effects of these difficulties. However, the number of farmers still lacking training, the complexity of the training process and the costs with it leads the CFP to reaffirm that the best solution is to change the deadline by 31 December 2017. We well know that this legislation is the transposition of a Community directive, but both the legislation and the directives are alterable and, in particular, the directive has not been complied with, and only with time and concrete measures may be. The CFP believes that an important step will be to change the deadline. In the meantime, the CFP project is the only one that expects the State to take measures to ensure free training for all farmers. It should be noted that, for example, one of the cooperatives in the Braga district told us that the average annual expenditure of farmers on plant protection products is €7 and then the money of nearly 20 years of products is required to make the training that lasts only 10 years. to the State which is its obligation. It is not enough to talk about support for small and medium-sized farmers; these support needs to be implemented. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u160	To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Dear Citizens : Law No 26/2013, although it represents an important step forward in this area, in particular by establishing the general ban on air applications and by requiring frequency of training in the distribution, marketing and application of plant protection products, has fallen short of what was desirable, providing for provisions that do not fully safeguard human and non-human health, nor preserve nature. Recognizing its danger and the consequences of mishandling these agrochemicals, this Act does not properly safeguard a safety distance between the facilities for the storage of these products and the sites where the application and the watercourses are developed, with high risks of contamination and serious consequences for public health and the environment. The Act is also very limited in terms of the means of dissemination of information used by DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) for the dissemination of codes of conduct on the use of these chemicals. Finally, it sets an excessively short deadline for obtaining qualification as a technician responsible for the frequency of training action, which has contributed to the fact that, so far, thousands of farmers have not attended proper training. Thus, while not overlooking the importance of this Law, we believe that there is still much to do in this matter, which is not exhausted from the amendments that we now propose. With them, we walk slowly but in the right direction, in the search for less chemical agriculture, which produces differentiated products, with high safety assurances and nutritional qualities that distinguish them from others. This way of making agriculture is part of the spirit of the current European agricultural policy, which points to agriculture in harmony with the environment and not as a destabilizing source of the natural balance of ecosystems or as a factor in the worsening of citizens' health. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u162	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I have noted that you are a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members of the Left Block, the PCP and even the PAN Member have been a little careless at the end of last year—and this, even though the Left Block Member has mentioned the legislative instruments published at the end of last year—maybe because they have been busy with management. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u164	Don't! Busy with management are you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u165	It is that from the entry of the PCP bill until the entry of the NAP bill, in fact, the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary, the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development and the Government itself have published three legislative instruments that allow farmers to complete their training until December 2017, which means that we will not make much sense today to discuss these bills with regard to the deadlines for their completion. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the previous government that, recognizing that there was some difficulty in gaining access to training for all, started a set of efforts to achieve this objective and created a set of exceptional measures that allow everyone to comply with — and comply not only with farmers but also with the Portuguese State. It's just, as you know, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we must comply with the Community directive. And if we fail to comply, Portugal is at risk of being punished — and for this we already have the heavy inheritance that the Socialist Government has left us with the plotter. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u166	But it's worth making a very small historical review here. It is that there was already a 2005 decree requiring the obligation to train the application of plant protection products until 31 December 2010. And who was in the government at that time? It was the PS, which allowed the deadline for training to be completed without doing anything and did not deal with the transposition of the Community Directive. It was the former Government, PSD / CDS, who sought to find a solution and took the initiative to propose this law which is currently being discussed. It was the former Government, PSD / CDS, which created an exceptional regime for older farmers that requires them to only make a test of knowledge, which can be theoretical or practical and which can be done in regional directions or producer organisations, and not only by commercial companies. This has been demonstrated in these circumstances precisely by the overwhelming majority of these older farmers having a low level of education. Let it be clear that these legislative instruments define a very simplified procedure which allows those who do not have the course to do so until 31 May 2016, a training of only four hours that can once again be done in the room, in extended groups, by regional directors or producer organisations, with a very residual cost, therefore, for the applicators, whether they are farmers or other applicators, and that only in 2017 they will have to complete the 25 hour training. Finally, Mr President, I leave a final note with regard to the draft law of the NAP, stating that, in our view, it is incompatible with the reality of our founding structure — either in the minifundia of the North and Central of the Country, or in the so-called 'hastins' of the Ribatejo, where there are parcels that are not more than 20 m wide — respect the distances that Mr proposes, from 50 m wide to the water lines. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what the left ones here want to make happen, they do not have the monopoly of defending the interests of small agriculture. The CDS-PP is, and has always been, attentive to the most unprotected types of agriculture and is committed to finding solutions to its specific problems. What distinguishes us essentially is that you only defend small agriculture and, in our view, the small one is as important as the great one, they play different roles in our economy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u167	Mr Pedro do Carmo has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft laws of the PCP and BE aim, essentially, to amend the deadlines set out in Law No 26/2013 of 11 April 2013 which regulates the distribution, sale and application activities of plant protection products for professional use and other applicators. The main reason for these bills is that, in the amended legislation, a clearly short period has been set for all thousands of farmers ( estimated at around 200 000 ) and other non-farmer operators, including officials of the authorities or agricultural workers, to obtain the necessary, important and indispensable training for the application of fitophharmacs in total safety and for the public health itself. The reality was showing that this deadline was manifestly short and what we observed was a failure of the previous government to seek a solution or identify a path to its resolution. But what we found was nothing, it was zero. Given this fact of manifest inability to train thousands of farmers and other applicators and their consequences for agriculture and the applicators, Minister Capoulas Santos resolved this issue as best as possible with the publication of Decree-Law No 254/2015 and the Joint Order of the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary and the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development. In other words, the PS does not say it defends farmers; the PS effectively defends farmers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the background, this solution consists of the possibility to include the applicator of plant protection products in a training action and authorizes the application of these products in agricultural or forestry farms, urban areas, leisure areas and communication routes until 31 May 2016, determining the non-application to the forming of the fines provided for in Law No 26 / 2013. Within the limits, this is a reasonable solution, which defends agriculture and farmers. Application of plant protection products, particularly farmers, may therefore be addressed to farmers' organisations and other representatives of the sector and also to regional services of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development, in order to obtain further clarification, as well as to register in the available training actions and obtain their certificate, which will allow them to continue their activity within the legal framework. We believe that this is the most appropriate response to a situation that has been dragging for more than two years and that unfortunately has put thousands of farmers and other users in serious difficulties to continue their activity. It is recalled that this imposition follows a Community directive which seeks to protect users, defend public health and the environment and which had a date of entry into force ( 26 November 2015 ). The solutions presented by the CFP, the Left Block and also the NAP, as regards the extension of the deadlines, reflect a concern that we understand, we even recognize, but the rapid action of the Government in seeking to resolve this situation makes, in a certain way, these contemporary diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u169	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u170	I shall conclude, Mr President. As regards the NAP project, in addition to changing the deadline, seeks to increase the safety margin established in the law. If the date of 31 May 2016 was not respected, a considerable number of farmers would be adversely affected under the controls, it would lose entitlement to subsidies from the CAP and the Portuguese State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u171	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u172	This is therefore an understandable concern, and the PS also considers it comprehensible to accept the proposal of the technicians of the Ministry of Agriculture who proposed these distances. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u173	Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills here today under consideration are no longer than the evidence of the absolute incongruence, of the obviously inconsistent basis of support which the current government intends to have in this Parliament. The law that the left now intend to change with the projects under discussion was published almost three years ago and corresponded to a consistent reformist impulse of the previous Government in the area of greater importance, such as regulation of the distribution, sale and application of fitophharmacs activity, being in line with the best that has been done in Europe. The paradoxical is that this discussion, which essentially summarizes three proposals for partial suspension of Law No. 26/2013, occurs after the current government has carried out that same suspension, creating a transitional regime for the accreditation of professional applicators. After all, three new proposals for suspension of what is already suspended: a proposal from the Block, which wants to suspend the law until December 2016 ; a proposal from the NAP, which wants the suspension until July 2017 ; and another from the PCP, which wants the suspension until December. First, there is the perplexity of three government-sponsored parties who find it important to discuss three different proposals, all suspended, of a law already suspended last December. If the gentlemen. Members who sit here every day on the left, next to each other on the left, who continue to promise, with a firm grip, to protect the current government of all creditors, of the present and future, but cannot then understand something simple, as an increase in the suspension period of an already suspended pesticide law, how will they want to agree when difficult decisions are needed? How did you guys do that? Can left-wing fellows expect someone to believe that they have a course, that they will ever be able to make a way for the country, if they haven't, after all, been able to stop zigging? How can they wish to end the drift, if they can no longer talk to each other, if they cannot even agree on a delay? It follows that the rest of the NAP proposal would require economic operators to make new changes in their premises, without any technical or scientific support. on the other hand, having had no capacity to provide training to all those concerned within the initially planned period, we have complied with the extension of the deadline for obtaining new qualifications, because economic activity and producers could not be affected. in the end, there remains an indelible mark, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: that, because of the left unable to agree, because of the inability these left have to disregard their dogmatic vision of reality and their desires of protagonist, we have, essentially, been discussing the suspension of a diploma that has already been approved by Decree-Law No 254 / 2015 of the current government, published on 30 December. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u175	Mrs. Members, the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 67 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), BE, 54 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), of the PCP, and 103 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), of the NAP. Before we proceed to the vote, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the following legislative initiatives: drafts of lein. 108 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Suspends the application of the supported lease scheme ( Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 September ) ( PCP ) and 109 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the supported income regime, guaranteeing a fairer and more affordable income value ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; and draft resolutions 101 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Evaluation and creation of a new national strategy for the integration of homeless people ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 102 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Publication of an order regulating the certification of advanced skills in information and communication technologies ( ICT ) in education ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u177	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then enter the voting period. First of all, let's check the quorum. I would ask the services to act on their mechanism and on the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 207 presences, to which are added 3 ( António Gameiro and Helena Freitas, PS, and Miguel Morgado, PSD ) making 210 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. The gentlemen. Members who have not registered electronically will have to sign up with the services. Let's start with vote No 32 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Despite the death of architect Nuno Teotónio Pereira ( PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u178	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In 1948, a group of young architects, including Nuno Teotónio Pereira, rebelled against the imposition by the salazarist regime of a ‘national’ style. And they left, under the impulse of Keil do Amaral, to the discovery of popular architecture, seeking an ancient and essential knowledge, where the inhabited forms come from the relationship between man and the middle. More than half a century later, Nuno Teotónio wrote, freedom of architectural expression continued to be threatened, not by the political dictatorship, but by the ‘ dictatorship of the market. ’ The essential feature of his work is the fact that he has given absolute priority to the social dimension of architecture and architecture as a service to the community. He was one of SAAL's strategic thinkers. The social housing has always taken a central place in its work, with special emphasis on the projects of the Northern Olives, which developed with Nuno Portas and Pinto de Freitas, and various projects throughout the country, of which he was responsible as a consultant for Economic Housing in the Federation of Safety Boxes. I brought to Portugal in the 1940s the Charter of Athens, the flag of the modern movement, which was naturally not seen by the dictatorship. in its architecture, the care with the central place of conviviality and meeting, of which is a special example the Free Water Block ( together with Bartolomeu Costa Cabral ). It was also a summit name of the religious art renewal movement, marked by the imbibligation of the sacred space in the public square, as seen in the Church of the Sacred Heart, in Lisbon, which drew with Nuno Portas. He followed with great attention and insight the transformations of the territory, not hesitated to fuse the disorders generating social inequality, since forced relocations in the valley of Alcântara, in 1966, to the distortions of the real estate market at the end of the 20th century, the scandal of the fires returned and the disorder and degradation of the cities. He called for public measures for the end of the barracks, priority to urban rehabilitation and public transport, priority of pedestrians in the public space, severe tax measures against the abuse of property rights. In 2015, he continued to say that today's great challenge for architects was the problem of housing. He formed the first workshop in 1949 with Chorão Ramalho, Alzina de Menezes and Manuel Tainha. In 1954, the workshop was set up at Rue da Alegria, in Lisbon, and in some ways became the true school of the architecture of Lisbon, an alternative to the traditionalist teaching of ESBAL. There passed great names, from Nuno Portas, Bartolomeu Costa Cabral and Pedro Vieira de Almeida to Gonçalo Byrne, Duarte Nuno Simões, João Patience or Pedro Botelho. He left deep mark on all those with him who worked, although he was always saying that the merit was all foreign and never of himself. An tireless defender of the social responsibility of architects, he fought for his professional organization, since the old National Union of Architects to the Association of Portuguese Architects and later to the Order of Architects, leading in 2002 petition No. 22 / IX ( 1 ). ( a ), under the motto ‘Right to Architecture’, which originated in 2005 the first legislative initiative of citizens on the same subject. Nuno Teotónio Pereira was also a progressive Catholic. It is not possible to make the history of progressive Catholicism in Portugal without putting Nuno Teotónio Pereira in the center of this other rupture. With an admirable courage and unusual ability to organize collectives, Nuno Teotónio Pereira actively interpreted the transformations carried out in the context of the Second Vatican Council and contributed to the critical distancing of Catholics to the Salazar regime and to the public presence of Catholics in opposition to dictatorship and colonial war. His crucial role in the vigils for peace in the Church of S. Domingos, in 1969, and in the Chapel of the Mouse, in 1972, and in the creation and dynamization of GEDOC books were particularly relevant milestones in this dimension of his life. Born in a family of great political plurality, Nuno Teotónio Pereira was a tenacious and coherent opponent of the fascist regime. The creation in 1963 of the Right to Information, a clandestine newsletter on colonial war, its participation in the National Commission for Relief of Political Prisoners, or its militant involvement in the Anti-Colonian Bulletin and, in general, all its anti-repression and dictatorship activities were worth the arrest by the PIDE in 1967, 1972 and 1973, from which it was released in the hours following the revolution of 25 April 1974. Years before, in 1970, he began with Jorge Sampaio, Vítor Wengorovius, Augustine Roseta and José Dias a movement that would give rise, already in full force of democracy, to the Socialist Left Movement, where also passed Ferro Rodrigues and João Cravinho. He was awarded by AICA in 1985, by the National Academy of Fine Arts in 2007, he was an honorary doctorate caused by the Universities of the Port and Technique of Lisbon, having also received in 2010 the Gold Medal of the City of Lisbon and the Career Award of the Ibero-American Biennale of Architecture and in 2015 the Prize of the University of Lisbon. In 1995 he received the Great Cross of the Freedom Order, and in 2004 he received the Great Cross of the Child Order. Distinguished several times with the Municipal Valmor Prize in Lisbon, its building in Braamcamp, in Lisbon, had the rare destination of receiving a popular nickname such as ‘Franjinhas Building’ ( 1971 ). Author of numerous studies, articles and communications on architecture, housing, heritage, territory and citizenship, his work was pioneer, his fearless writing and his life a history of talent, generosity and profound fraternity. Shortly before he died, in one of the last interviews he gave, he said: ‘The architecture is made from inside out, like the human being’. The Assembly of the Republic - before the memory of Nuno Teotónio Pereira, accompanies the family at the moment of sorrow that goes through and urges citizens to draw inspiration from their example of probity, fraternity, freedom and citizenship which marked successive generations throughout their lives».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u179	I can only say one word: he is a great man, a great Portuguese, a great democrat who departs. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 32 / XIII ( 1 ). a ), submitted by PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us turn to vote No 29 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Condemnation and regret for terrorist attacks in Istanbul and Jakarta ( PSD ), which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u180	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Turkish city of Istanbul was shaken on Tuesday, January 12, shortly after 10 a.m. (local time), by an explosion in Sultanahmet square, popular destination among tourists in the historic center of the city. The suicide attack, attributed to Daesh, in the tourism area of Istanbul, in Turkey, made at least 10 dead and 15 wounded, two of whom are in serious condition. Nine of the dead are German tourists, the other has Peruvian nationality. Seven people died on Thursday, January 14, in Jacarta following several explosions that overwhelmed the centre of the Indonesian capital. Five were attackers and two civilians, one of whom was Dutch. This attack was also claimed by Daesh. There is nothing that can justify acts of this nature. What has happened is simply repudiable and highly condemnable. The PSD Parliamentary Group is associated with expressions of regret for the families of the victims and is in solidarity with the affected States and peoples. The PSD Parliamentary Group also expresses its vehement condemnation of these acts, as well as of all political and religious extremisms that adopt violence as the rule of their conduct."
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u181	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 29 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), submitted by the PSD. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will still appreciate the vote No 31 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Condemning and regrets the attack in Burkina Faso ( Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities ). I ask Secretary Idália to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u182	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last January 15th, the world was faced with the drama of another terrorist attack, this time in Ouagadougou, capital of Burkina Faso. The frequency of abject acts of terrorism such as those occurring in a hotel in that capital, in addition to being deeply condemned, indicates an unsustainable disregard for the values inherent in the human condition itself, and therefore deserves the most vehemently repudiation. this time in Ouagadougou — as in many other parts of the world — they were Portuguese. António Manuel de Oliveira Basto, 52 years old, married and father of three children, one of them younger, and for years based in France, succumbed to intolerance and barbaria. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic must not fail to express its most lively repudiation and condemnation by the barbarous attack of Ouagadougou and express its sorrow to the families of the victims, in particular to the wife, children and other family of the Portuguese citizen António Basto, to whom the Portuguese Parliament addresses, bewildered and sympathetically, the most sorry senses".
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u183	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 31 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on Bill No 346 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishment of the Children's Observatory ( ALRAM ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prevents deliberate cultivation and release in the environment of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs) ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the Member of PS Inês de Medeiros.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 69 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — It prohibits the cultivation, import and marketing of genetically modified organisms ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the Member of PS Inês de Medeiros.]] The general vote on Bill No. 100/ XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Regulation or cultivation of genetically modified agricultural varieties ( GMOs ) ( CFPs ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the Member of PS Inês de Medeiros.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 102 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — prohibits the production and commercial cultivation of genetically modified organisms ( repeal of Decree-Law No 72 / 2003 of 10 April and Decree-Law No 160 / 2005 of 21 September ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the Member of PS Inês de Medeiros.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u184	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u185	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u186	Mr President, it is to inform you that, on these four bills that we have just voted on, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u187	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u188	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u189	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u190	Mr President, it is also to inform that, with regard to these four bills that we have just voted on, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u191	Be registered. Mrs. Members, let us proceed with the general vote on draft law No 9 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Replaces pension supplements in state business enterprises ( CFPs ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PS MP Isabel Santos.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u192	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u193	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u194	Mr President, it is to announce to the Bureau that I will present a statement of vote on the bill we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u195	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on draft law No 104 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Cancellation of the payment of pension supplements to employees of enterprises in the public sector and replacement of the conditions for the allocation of such supplements in the field of collective bargaining ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 93 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the replacement of pension supplements to employees of enterprises in the public sector ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u196	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u197	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u198	Mr President, it is to announce that I myself, together with the Members. Members Maria das Mercês Borges, Cristóvão Crespo, Carla Barros and Bruno Vitorino will present a statement of vote on the three diplomas we have just voted on, i.e. two bills and a draft resolution on pension supplements for workers in the state business sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u199	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall then vote on draft resolution No 67 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the conduct of an external and independent audit of Banif, the evolution of the Bank's value and the recapitalisation measures by the Bank ( January 2013 ) and the sale of its activity to Santander Totta ( December 2015 ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u200	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u201	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u202	Mr President, the Left Block, in addition to announcing that it will present a proposal for an independent external audit, will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u203	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u204	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u205	It's for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u206	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u207	He asked Mr President to read again the title of the draft resolution we just voted on so that it could be understood that he would determine exactly the conduct of an independent external audit to Banif's management. [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u208	Mr President, the speeches have already taken their time. Mrs. Members, we shall continue with the vote on Parliamentary inquiry No 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Possible parliamentary inquiry into Banif's management, the process leading to the implementation of the resolution and alienation of its activity and its consequences ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Parliamentary inquiry No 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry to the process leading to the sale and resolution of the Banco Internacional do Funchal ( Banif ) ( PS, BE, PCP and Os Verdes ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on the parliamentary inquiry No 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into management and the process leading to the sale and resolution of the Banif International Bank ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u209	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u210	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u211	Mr President, it is to inform you that I intend to make an oral vote on what we have just voted on at the end of the voting period.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u212	Be registered. Mrs. Members, having agreed, will proceed to the joint vote of the requests submitted by BE, the CFP and the Greens, respectively, requesting the resignation of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting, for a period of 15 days, of the projects of lein. 56 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends access to invalidity and old-age pensions for workers of the National Uranio Company and reserves the right to an emerging compensation for occupational disease or death ( BE ), 53 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime for access to invalidity and old age pensions by workers of the National Uranio Company, SA, providing for the right to death or sickness compensation ( CFP ) and 60 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amended by Decree-Law No 28 / 2005 of 10 February 2005 on the Legal Regime of Access to Invalidity and Speed Pensions by Workers of the National Uranio Company ( UNE ), SA, and establishes the right to compensation in case of occupational disease or death ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Thus, these bills are down to 10. the Commission for 15 days without a vote. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 67 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the deadlines and criteria for the training of application of plant protection products ( First amendment to Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April regulating the distribution, sale and application of plant protection products for professional use and adjuvants of plant protection products and defining the monitoring procedures for the use of plant protection products by transposing Directive 2009 / 128 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October establishing a framework for action at Community level for the sustainable use of pesticides and repealing Law No 10 / 93 of 6 April and Decree-Law No 173 / 2005 of 21 October ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The general vote on Bill No 54 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Amend the deadlines laid down in Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April regulating the distribution, sale and application of plant protection products ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 103/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April regulating the distribution, sale and application of plant protection products for professional use and adjuvants of plant protection products and defines monitoring procedures for the use of plant protection products ( PAN ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u213	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u214	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u215	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau and the House that I will present a statement of vote on the diplomas we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u216	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u217	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u218	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u219	It is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u220	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u221	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u222	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u223	Mr President, it is to inform that the CDS-PP bench will present a statement of vote on these three diplomas that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u224	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft resolutions Nos 56 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Rationalization of contracts of association with private education ensuring the protection of public school ( BE) and 61 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By a public school that covers the needs of the entire population ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u225	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u226	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u227	Mr President, it is to announce to the Bureau and to the House that on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão and Mr Hugo Costa we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u228	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u229	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u230	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u231	Mr President, it is to announce to the Bureau that I will also make a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u232	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 54 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Statute of the Republican National Guard ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, on Parliamentary Opinions 7 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) ( BE) and 8 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 246 / 2015 of 20 October 2015, which is the first amendment to Law No 90 / 2009 of 31 August 2009 establishing the special protection regime on disability, and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 265 / 99 of 14 July ( amended by Decrees-Law No 309 -A / 2000 of 30 November, and 13 / 2013 of 25 January ), which creates the supplement for dependence. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we have six opinions from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, to appreciate and vote. So, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u233	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of Section Cable J2 of the Central Court of the Northern Lisbon District, Loures, Case No. 3088 / 11.5TCLRS, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Susana Amador ( PS ) to provide written testimony, as a witness, within the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u234	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u235	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of Section Cable J2 of the Local Court of Braga, Braga, Case No. 7217 / 13.6TBRG, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Member Carla Cruz ( PCP ) to give written testimony as a witness within the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u236	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] Since there are no requests for a word, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u237	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Criminal Instruction Section J1 of the Central Court of Madeira, Funchal, Case No. 445 / 11.0TAFUN, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion in order to authorize Mr. Carlos Pereira ( PS ) to testify as an assistant in the field of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u238	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if there are no objections, we shall vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u239	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the J3 Criminal Section of the Local Authority of the Comarca de Viseu, Viseu, Case No 12209 / 11.7TDPRT, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Pedro Alves ( PSD ) to give written testimony as a witness within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u240	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] Since there is no objection, we will vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u241	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Single Section of the DIAP of the Comarca dos Azores, Angra do Heroísmo, Case No. 152 / 14.2T9AGH, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr António Ventura ( PSD ) to testify as a witness in the context of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u242	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] With no requests for a word, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u243	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of 1. the Criminal Section J11 of the Central Court of the Comarca de Lisboa, Lisboa, Case No. 286 / 07.0JFLSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr José de Matos Rosa ( PSD ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u244	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in appreciation. [[Pause.]] Since there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the vote, we shall turn to the oral explanations of vote, and the Members shall be inscribed for that purpose. Deputies João Pinho de Almeida and João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u245	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u246	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u247	Also for an oral vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u248	All right. Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor then.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We had the opportunity to vote here today three initiatives for the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on what happened in Banif and which were presented, one by the Socialist Party, Block of Left, PCP and Ecological Party « The Greens », another by the Social Democratic Party and another by the CDS-PP. We also had the opportunity to vote on an application for an independent external audit submitted by the PSD. The CDS voted in favour of all these projects, regardless of who proposed them and their recitals. Obviously, we do not refer to all recitals. Obviously, there were even considerations that, from our point of view, they were disrespecters of something that had been the activity of a government that the CDS was part of. But today this wasn't the most important thing. The most important thing today, here, was to understand what I asked about there from the rostrum. In other words, if we were willing to do what the country expects of Parliament, because, unfortunately, we already have little hope for its politicians, or make a pass-through game, serving the committee of inquiry to Banif, solely and exclusively, to say whether the blame is on the current government or on the previous government, or if, on the contrary, we were available to go to the bottom of the problem, without any restrictions, and we find out which entities, public and private, national and European, who intervene in the process, who have responsibilities and which, of course, have to answer before this Parliament, because only by responding to this Parliament are able to answer the Portuguese citizens, who are once again called to pay the invoice of a bank, and who, of course, deserve all respect. We said that we should follow the example of Members such as John Semedo or Honorary New, who in the past were available for the conclusions of parliamentary committees of inquiry to be in a Parliament rather than a faction. Unfortunately, we have faced ourselves today, here, with a faction that is only available to discuss the questions that you are asking because you probably already know the answers you are going to give. We are available, and we will continue to be, for all questions, because we are not afraid of any of the answers. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u250	You have the floor, Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u251	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, subjects which the Socialist Party considers disrespectful have a single vote in the Socialist Party: we vote against! That is because, in fact, saying that there are disrespectful matters and we shall vote in favour of them, not! The Socialist Party does not do that! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The reason why the Socialist Party votes against the external audit is precisely because we respect the committee of inquiry and do not want to replace the committee of inquiry with an external evaluation. [[P.S.P.P. and P.P.P.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u252	That was Salazar's time!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u253	This is because we value the work of the Members, because we value Parliament and because we all find ourselves capable. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] By the way, I also believe that the Members of the PSD and the CDS are able to make a correct assessment without the need for external protection. We consider, on behalf of the autonomy of the committee of inquiry, that it must be the committee of inquiry, in matters which it considers relevant or for technical reasons, to request the external audit or other elements which the members of the committee of inquiry consider relevant in their work, Mr. within the scope of your work! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This is what all Members are asked to do, to respect this House, to respect their own work, and thus to dignify the committee of inquiry which they have just approved today. It is up to the committee of inquiry to take this decision, to the Members who compose it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u254	Mr António Leitão Amaro also spoke for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These votes of the left-wing parliamentarians, by the way, together, to exercise an unclear sense of clarity, we are concerned because this or it is sectarianism, since they only vote on the proposals that are theirs, or, then, it is a much more dangerous exercise. We have heard here, during the debate on the setting up of the committee of inquiry, several answers that were given before even the questions were asked and the committee of inquiry had begun,... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] ... and we have now seen that the parties on the left do not want the Assembly of the Republic to conduct an external and independent audit, to begin now. They do not do so, according to now this argument by Mr. João Galamba, because politics dispenses technical judgments, specialized judgments and independent evaluations!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u256	I didn't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u257	Nobody said that! [[I said, I said!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u258	Mr President, we do not use that arrogance, we go to the limit of our effort to know everything, to ask all the questions, to know all the answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u259	But did anyone say that?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u260	But we know that politics is what politics is, and what is specialized and independent technical judgment is external and independent technical judgement. I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have seen here has not been the principle of a serious process of anyone who wants to know everything, without limits, without reservations, without taboos, without hiding,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u261	Why wasn't it like that in the others?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u262	... but the beginning of a manipulation exercise, in which the answers will be conditioned, are given before the questions are asked. on our part, we want the full clarification, we don't leave questions outside, we don't leave periods outside and we don't leave those responsible outside. [[Neither do we!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u263	That's what the ladies are talking about. Left-wingers wanted to do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u264	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u265	Start wrong! They begin with sectarianism, but above all, to stain the image of this Parliament...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u266	Look who! Look who!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u267	...and the effort to clear up the truth that all Portuguese ask for. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u268	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the vote of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party, on the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry, we feel that it is not appropriate for the criticism addressed to us by Mr João Pinho de Almeida, for a simple reason. The honourable Member says that there are questions that the CFP, the PS and the BE do not want to ask. Mr President, just to explain to you the request for the setting up of the committee of inquiry which has been approved by these parties asks a lot more questions and contains those which you are asking. [[PCP applause.]] So the universe of questions is wider. So the question is exactly the opposite: why do you just want to put yours? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, given that this project is the continent of your questions, we believe that your approval, by virtue of this inclusion, is detrimental to the vote on yours. On the issue of external auditors, Mr. Members, I would like to make the following clear: Banif, like all banking institutions, is annually the target of external audits, which are precisely those that assess their accounts. When Mr Leitão Amaro says that there is an independent external entity, he forgets to say that this independent external entity is precisely one of which has over time been hiding the problems of the bank in Portugal. [[PCP applause.]] And you also forget to say who is independent. This 'independent' has a lot to tell you! Is it independent of what? Oh, my God! Is he independent of his shareholders? Is it independent of the Portuguese financial system? Is it independent of your main customers, what are the banks? Oh, my God! [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] It's about independence, sir! We must always say that he is independent and, indeed, independent of the public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u270	They're scared! Fear!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u271	The shareholders of the external auditors have nothing to do with the public interest. Therefore, the Banco de Portugal must play its part, if it intends to hire auditors, as it is, in fact, obliged to do — despite the honourable Members. Members do not allow the Banco de Portugal to carry out its own audits—and so do. We believe that this is a role of Banco de Portugal and that it must already be doing so. As far as your proposal is concerned, it is no longer, and it is well noted that an attempt has already been made to condition and devalue the work of the committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u272	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u273	Conditioning, underlining what topics Members want to address and devalue in order to refer to the technical sphere what should be political, because this committee of inquiry is about political responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u274	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u275	It is true that it will not be a pass-by committee, we will do everything to avoid it, but we will not give the CDS-PP the possibility not to take up its own. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u276	For a statement of vote, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u277	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, who attended the debate we had here minutes ago, saw two positions by Mr Leitão Amaro : one, to tell a story that begins in November 2015 and then that did not ask any question to the previous Government, had no doubt about what happened before November 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u278	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u279	The Left Block, and I can speak because it was I who made this intervention, questioned Mr Leitão Amaro about everything that happened before 2015 and also questioned the Socialist Party and the Government about the decision that was taken. Anyone who wants to know the truth cannot want to hide behind false consensus. False consensus cannot be used to whiten the truth and the performance of the PSD and the CDS, of its government, in this matter. [[PSD protests.]] The Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Socialist Party and the Greens Ecological Party presented a proposal for the creation of a committee of inquiry with a broader scope... [[It's fake! It's fake!]] [[It's fake! It's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u280	... than the one presented by the PSD and the CDS-PP. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u281	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be silent so that we can hear Mrs Mariana Mortágua. You want to continue, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u282	It seems logical to me that two proposals, one more comprehensive and one less comprehensive, should be voted on as an alternative. [[It's fake! It's fake!]] [[It's fake! It's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u283	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not sleep any worse because I have voted on one proposal as an alternative in opposition to the other. Now, there's a more serious problem. The PSD submits a proposal for an external audit whose deadline would always end, but always, either at the end of the commission of inquiry or after the end of the committee of inquiry. And this has a purpose, i.e. the PSD wants to remove the technical aspects of the committee of inquiry so that, when we draw conclusions from the committee of inquiry, we can say: "These are political conclusions! The technician is external! It's not technical, it's just political! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Open... [[It's fake! It's fake!]] [[It's fake! It's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u284	That's what the PSD wants to do! [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But manipulation is more perverse than that...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u285	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u286	I will finish, Mr. President. But manipulation is more conservative than that, because it is the best of two worlds: if the proposal was approved, it could enforce this strategy; if it was not approved, it could make the victim figure, which it did here, accusing the left of not wanting to clarify the whole truth. [[And it's true! You don't want to!]] [[And it's true! You don't want to!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u287	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u288	It was the best of two worlds! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr President, your manipulation was noticed in the first second you went up that rostrum. You got it in the first second!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u289	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u290	Therefore, in the committee of inquiry, Members who understand that a technical external evaluation is needed will ask for such an assessment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u291	They're scared! Fear!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u292	You will not condition all the work of a committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u293	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u294	Mr... Mr. Member, you've been in the government for four years and you think it's the Left Block that's afraid? Oh, my God! [[They're scared! Fear!]] [[They're scared! Fear!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u295	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u296	You've been in the government for four years and you think it's the Left Block that's afraid? Oh, my God! [[They're scared, yeah! They're scared!]] [[They're scared, yeah! They're scared!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u297	Put your hand on your conscience, sir! Put your hand on your conscience to see what you've done!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u298	The honourable Member has already exceeded her time widely.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u299	Put your hand on your conscience! [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u300	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u301	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u302	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u303	The work is almost at the end, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u304	Exactly, Mr President, but in order for us not to conclude them by mistake, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u305	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u306	Mr President, in order not to be misled by the intervention just made by Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I would like to ask whether, as announced, the drafts for the establishment of the parliamentary commission of inquiry were voted on independently, each by himself, or alternatively, as Mrs Mariana Mortágua now said that they were voted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-22.u307	You know the answer. The Bureau is not here to give the answers that all Mr. Ladies and gentlemen already know when they ask questions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 27 January, for 3 p.m., will have as a working order a debate required by the PS on health policy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 55 minutes.]]
