ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Our agenda today has as its first point the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, beginning with interventions by the parliamentary groups. Thus, the first intervention is this time the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP. Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u2	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you, firstly, whether for the Socialist Party — and for the Government now — the drop in birth in Portugal is a serious problem to which the country has to respond. Secondly, I wanted to ask you why the Socialist Party has led all the CDS projects and dragged with it the Left Block and the PCP, preventing Parliament from doing serious work on this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u3	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cristas, thank you very much for your questions. The Government is the Government, the PS Parliamentary Group is the PS Parliamentary Group... [[CDS-PP laughter.]] ...and therefore the questions to the PS Parliamentary Group I am sure that Mr Carlos César will have the greatest pleasure in answering. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u5	Mrs. Mrs. Assumption Cristas, she continues to use the word. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, I note that the Prime Minister and Secretary-General of the Socialist Party does not send or give indications to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and also registers that he has no thought about the matter and does not consider that birth is a matter relevant to our country. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] But changing the subject, Mr. Prime Minister, 15 days ago, in this Chamber, he enthusiastically set his seat—of the Socialist Party, precisely—with a commission on governing without austerity and no increase in taxes. He referred to several taxes, including VAT and IRC. I ask you if you want to keep that line. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u7	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u8	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, when you want to speak to the Secretary-General of the PS, I will be more pleased to mark a meeting at the Long Caldas or the Long Rat, as it may be most convenient for you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at that time, I can tell you that in the PS, neither the Secretary-General, nor the Prime Minister, above all, send a parliamentary group that, as a parliamentary group elected by the citizens, responds to the citizens and is not a puppet of the Secretary-General. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u9	That's weird!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u10	On the second question, the question was obviously rhetorical and deserves an obviously rhetorical answer. Nothing I have to add. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u11	You may continue, Mrs Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u12	Mr President, I regret that Mr. Prime Minister is hiding himself in ways not to go to the details of the issues, but, finally, register only. With regard to the second question, I have to tell you that I gave you an opportunity to correct some of the things you said and so I will have to lie. Mr Prime Minister said he did not increase VAT at all. Well, it's fake. And I'm going to tell you this: it didn't increase the rates but it moved on product lists. I will give you just two examples: bread related products were at a minimum rate of 6 % and increased to a maximum rate of 23 %; meat preserves were at an intermediate rate of 13 % and increased to a maximum rate of 23 %. Secondly, you said that you had not increased the IRS for Portuguese families. It's fake. through our accounts, the elimination of the family quotient negatively affected about 600,000 families with children, who began to pay more taxes. Thirdly, you raised the fuel tax by 3 cent and promised that it would be fiscal neutral for the Portuguese purse.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u13	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u14	It is also false, Mr. Prime Minister. It is that, over three months, it has reduced only 1 cent. I would like to tell you that the reference prices for fuels have risen by 10 % since the beginning of the year and you have only lowered the tax by 0, 8 %. If you want to make another account, 12 cents went up and you dropped only 1 cent. I would say that this is also unacceptable. As it is unacceptable to make the Portuguese spend more, pay more taxes than the one that had already been applied to them for three months and, therefore, the righteous would be to return them the difference. I admit that this is difficult, but there is one question I wanted to ask you: is it available to review this tax on a weekly basis? If you know, our national fuel market entity makes weekly reports. Is it available to make this review weekly or not? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u15	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are only available to do what we agreed and what we agreed was that the review would be quarterly. As we explained, the increase in the tax on petroleum products was intended to compensate for the fall in VAT revenue resulting from the price reduction. Therefore, what we established was that, depending on price developments and as VAT revenue increased, we would be available to go down the ISP. No one believed that this would happen because no one has ever lowered that tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u17	Mr. Prime Minister has increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u18	I still remember what I read in the newspapers yesterday, where it was said that this government will obviously do what all other governments have done, that it is not fulfilling the commitment to lower the tax. Now, what this government has done is what it has always done, to fulfill its commitments. And what was our commitment? Depending on VAT revenue, we would lower the tax. The variation between January and April was a variation of 4 cents and was therefore reduced in what was compensated by VAT, so it was reduced by 1 cent in gasoline and 1 cent in gasoline. That's what we did. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u19	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, a record which did not answer the question of VAT, did not answer the question of the tax on households in relation to IRS, which increased and also recorded that, in respect of fuel tax, Mr Prime Minister wants to explain that he lowered the tax but, in fact, Mr Prime Minister rose - 6 cents on gas oil and gas and that is what is relevant. And it doesn't even come down to the extent of its commitment, besides no one can understand how rational it is behind this measure. In fact, if we are going to put gas or gas in our car today, perhaps we can consume a "kiss" half a mile with the neighbor on our side. On austerity, I would like to ask you a few questions. We learned from television this week that the famous hidden list, which appeared in this Parliament 15 days ago, could not be just an annex to the Stability Programme and could be relevant by now this year. I therefore give you the opportunity to clarify, here in Parliament now, what you want to say about this. Where are you going to get the EUR 210 million from other taxes? When will you apply them? What cuts are you going to make in social benefits? How much do you want to get with the IMI and with the changes with the worsening of the IMI? How will the progressive IMI work and what impact does it have on investment, particularly in urban rehabilitation? How will the rural IMI work, which also plans to review, and how does this affect small rustic owners? Mr Prime Minister, I believe that the Stability Programme is already going there, your fellow government partners in Parliament have already supported it and, therefore, at the moment, I think you are already sorry to play hidden and you can tell us here, too, in front of you. Mr Catarina Martins and Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, which is this truth of austerity « on the left». [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u21	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u22	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, I will try to answer the series of questions you have raised. To close the tax issue, I would like to say the following: one year ago, when you were in government, gas oil cost 6 cents more than it costs today. Today, it costs less than 6 cents than a year ago, when you were a minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u23	It wasn't tax!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u24	As for your fourth version of Plan B, I thank you because in fact I may have been mistaken, or I must have been mistaken in the interview I gave to SIC.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u25	He ran away from her mouth to the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u26	Obviously, this picture, as I said here in Parliament and as you well know, is attached to the 2017 and subsequent Stability Programme. As for 2016, as I have also said in the SIC and I will repeat here, the budget implementation leaves us sufficiently comfortable to continue not to foresee the need for any measures that can be classified as Plan B and limit-CL - we will be implementing the State Budget approved here in this Assembly of the Republic, as we said we would do. However, there is no expected increase in IMI in the State budget. This State budget, on the contrary, introduced two measures of the greatest importance : one, on a proposal from the CFP, which reduced the maximum rate of IMI. It was not on the proposal of the CDS, it was on the proposal of the CFP and was approved by the parliamentary majority. The second, on a proposal from the PS, reintroduced the safeguard clause to ensure that no family would be increased more than it could bear with respect to the IMI.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u27	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u28	As for the study of IMI reform, when it is completed and the proposal emerges, then we will have occasion to hold the debate, certainly after the debate of the State Budget for 2017, or before the State Budget for 2017 but not surely today, when the proposal does not exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u29	Mrs Cristas, Member of the CDS-PP, continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you very much for your explanations. We confirm that there will be more austerity and we will then be debating, austerity on the left, and we also note that Mr. Prime Minister, as he has been doing so far, gives with one hand and then takes both.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u32	in the background, he feels that he owns the money of the Portuguese and the choices of the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Turning now to the economy, I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, how you explain some numbers to us. None of the indicators are reassuring to us: unemployment is rising, exports are falling, investment is stagnating, and today we know that growth is at 0, 1 %. Mr. Prime Minister says it's okay, but we just see it keeps raining a lot out there. It tells us that it is the fault of the international economy, which is slowing down, and then it is worth asking how the former Government has done, that it has managed to create an economic growth route when Spain was in a 2-% recession and when Germany was stagnant, which is not happening at the moment. How, in that case, does the international situation explain? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u33	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u34	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristas, I do not say that it is all right, you are all needing the government to pursue its policy in order to correct what is very bad in the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The numbers released today confirm the deceleration trajectory that began in the second half of 2015... [[Ah! You remember...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u35	Why would it have been? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u36	... and that the policies of the current government seek to reverse, through the revival of the economy. What proves is that in the last two quarters there has been a growth of 0, 1 % and 0, 2 %, and now 0, 1 % in a context of export breakdown, mainly explained by the demand market more than by a problem of supply of our companies,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u37	... as today indicates the INE, not out of domestic demand and this quarter we wouldn't have had the inversion we have and we wouldn't have continued to grow. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, this only shows that, contrary to what they said, the increase in domestic demand was essential in order to allow a strategy to reverse the cooling of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u38	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u39	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would not have so much faith in the sustainability of the increase in domestic demand, because we have already had past experiences and we have seen where this revenue has taken us. I believe that if Mr. Prime Minister and his ministers looked more at businesses and exports and helped them export more into the world outside, and now if they solve the problem of the Lisbon Port, perhaps this will help more significantly, because blaming others is no good. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u40	That's another problem you left us!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u41	Mr. Prime Minister, changing the subject, 15 days ago I asked you a question about association contracts. Today I will ask you a very precise question, because we all realize that the point is the interpretation of those contracts. The very precise question is this: the father of a student who is today attending 6. the year of schooling in a school with association contract, reached the registration period, which is from here no more than two months, may or may not register this student, who is now in 6. the year and it goes to the 7th. the year, at the same school, under the same contract? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u42	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u43	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristas, we have agreed on the relaunching of the economy in two key vectors: return of income to families and the creation of conditions for financing companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u44	You can't see anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u45	We started to comply with the return on income to families and started to create conditions for the investment of companies, with the acceleration of the implementation of Community funds, and in April we had the highest ever demand for investment, with EUR 2000 million, which shows that there is a desire to invest, there is an initiative capacity and that, with a good implementation of Community funds, we will be able to resume a growth path.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u46	You've outlived your time, Prime Minister. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u47	With regard to the question you put on association contracts, the contracts that were approved by your Government are very clear: they ensure that all children can complete the cycle on the basis of the association contract. If the child is in 6. the year, ending the cycle, can only continue in the association contract if, not on the basis of the contract made by your government but on the basis of the needs now assessed, this school is inserted in the area of shortage of the public network and where new classes are therefore opened for the 7. year. If it is, it may; if it is not, it cannot. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u48	You now have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u49	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, there has been a time when we can make our forecasts and, to this extent, make policy options, particularly economic policy, for the medium term. It is well known that we have diverged into what was the way in which the government adopted in terms of economic strategy. Our conviction is that the country has, and will always, a domestic market too small to grow enough, either to reabsorb the unemployment generated from the 2007 / 2008 crisis, or to be able to pay enough the debt that has been incurred over all these years. We therefore need, as an economic strategy, to maintain moderate growth in domestic demand, but above all, we need to attract external direct investment, boost investment and dynamize exports, under the penalty of being sentenced to a slow death. The government, however, has a different perspective. He believes that it is essentially dynamizing the internal consumption which must be expected to sustain growth in the economy and thus a recovery in the standard of living of Portuguese people. We are now beginning to enter the stage when we no longer make predictions, in which we are no longer just discussing what the government has strategically proposed for the future on the basis of its forecasts, and we are starting to contrast with reality. And the reality of this week has shown that, from the point of view of unemployment, net job destruction is confirmed. in the first quarter of this year the net destruction of employment was higher than the government forecast of job creation for the whole year 2016. In fact, more than 40 000, almost 45 000 net jobs were destroyed during the first quarter of this year. There is no doubt that net exports continue to fall and exports of goods have shown a significant fall. Gross fixed capital formation ( FBCF ), investment fell abruptly — this is clear today in the fast estimate published by the INE. I mean, as the Government had foreseen, domestic consumption continues to progress, to sustain some recovery, but all the other factors, which are decisive in giving sustainability to growth, are falling. It says the Prime Minister—he said it now—that it is true, but in the second half of last year there was already a gas loss in that recovery. But, Prime Minister, the investment, which was critical to the future, was rising, was not falling the peak. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u50	And this is the most important, in the medium and long term. It is that consumer money runs out quickly, but investment is reproductive and lasts for several years and creates jobs. My point is that there are jobs that are being destroyed because there is investment that is falling. That confirms the Government's strategy, which, however, the Government considered would be very positive, but, as you see, it is not. The government had the chance, if it saw any problem on the path that was being followed last year, to correct. But in the last fortnight's debate, the Prime Minister came to say that there was no problem, that the economy was already losing gas in the second half, but that it would not move in the forecasts for this year. Well, Prime Minister today, the data released by INE are very clear: with the decline in growth rate, both in chains and in terms of counterparts—because, in terms of counterparts, only 0, 8 % has grown and, in chains, only 0, 1 % — that means that if in the next three quarters the economy grows in chains 0, 5 % still, growth at the end of the year will not exceed 1, 2 %. In other words, if we are particularly optimistic about growth today in the following quarters, we will still stay considerably away from what was the goal proposed by the government. Now we are no longer talking about mere predictions ab initio; now we are beginning to enter that ground where after not long to make corrections, Prime Minister. Then, to the end, there must be no external surprise saying a bad result. Now we are beginning to see that there will be a bad result this year, if the government does not correct the trajectory. Therefore, Prime Minister, since this data is objective today and we are not disputing forecasts or intentions for the future, since the economy does not have an infinitely elastic capacity to grow in the future and assuming that it will grow much more in all the following quarters, five times more, than it has grown in the first quarter and yet will remain far from the government's goal, neither deficit nor debt will be objectives achieved this year by the government and the country, unfortunately, if something does not change. Mr. Prime Minister, while it's time, what will change? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u51	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u52	Mr. President, Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho, whom respect and compliance cordially, firstly, our economy had a good start in 2015 and throughout 2015 was losing breath. And it was losing breath, well seen, by comparing what was growth in the first quarter, 1, 7%, and in which we were already growing, in terms of homologous 1, 3 %, in the last quarter. If compared today with the 0, 1 % chain growth, it is in line with the 0, 2 % of the previous quarter and the 0, 1 % of the other previous quarter. This means that we have a deceleration situation and that this quarter has indeed been particularly penalized by the reduction of exports. But let's look at exports to figure out what the problem we're dealing with is. Is it a problem of national production? I see that even with the economic situation in Spain we continue to grow in Spain, we have grown significantly in the United Kingdom, France and in general European countries, with the exception of Germany. What strongly conditioned the evolution of exports were two markets, China and Angola, which means that the evolution of exports is mainly due to market problems rather than to internal production problems. Secondly, it is not true that the Government does not value exports. In addition, the Government maintained AICEP ( Portuguese Foreign Investment and Trade Agency ), strengthened its institutional weight by placing it in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and created even a State Secretary for Internationalization. Yes, we are focused on supporting exports and we will work on that. Now, what we have said is that continuing to give priority to exports cannot involve continuing to sacrifice the internal market. And the best proof of this is that, in a framework of major export breakdowns, what, in spite of everything, sustains our growth is, at the moment, internal demand, and it would not exist if we had not adopted the policy measures we adopted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to employment in the first quarter, it is necessary to look at the flows that the INE itself draws in relation to the dynamics between employed and unemployed people, inactive people and people looking for employment. The absence of persons from unemployment to employment and employment to the unemployment situation was favourable to the number of people who found employment in relation to those who entered unemployment. What explains the increase in the rate is that there was a very significant reduction, and well, of people who were inactive and are now looking for employment. [[PSD protests.]] But these figures only confirm once again the correctness of our priorities. The priority of economic policy must be the creation of employment, the creation of quality employment, and it should not be a political path which continues to be laid down in the creation of unemployment, as has been the result of the previous four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr Deputy, with regard to investment, during the four years of his Government, the level of investment in Portugal returned to the levels of the 1980s, I repeat, returned to the levels of the 1980s. Withdrawing the investment of this path of failure for a recovery path necessarily requires time. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] It requires, above all, to create conditions for this investment to be made, and this has been one of our priorities. And I am afraid that we have done so in three ways: firstly, by speeding up the implementation of the Community funds. When we arrived at the government, some EUR 4 million had been funded to companies. at present, more than EUR 160 million is being handed over to companies so that they can finance their investment. We have set a goal to speed up the implementation to EUR 450 million by the end of the year. in the competitions we opened, we beat all the search records for investment finance in April and still this week the Minister of Economy opened two lines of credit important to support startups and entrepreneurship. Yeah, we're trying to help the investment. Now, to help investment, it is fundamental, as you know, to solve the question of financial system stability and the problem of financial autonomy for companies. That is why one of the first measures we have taken was the creation of a mission unit for the capitalisation of companies. I can tell you that on 16 June, the mission unit, chaired by Eng. José António Barros, will present its final work. And that is very important for us to be able to adopt measures that help companies to have better financial conditions to benefit from the European Central Bank's monetary policy and to be able to invest confidently, because this investment is essential to job creation and wealth production. This is our strategy and this is the strategy we will continue to pursue. And for us there is no incompatibility between betting on the external market and not impoverishing the internal market, because the competitiveness of our export will not be at the expense of the impoverishment of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u53	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u54	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have tried to hear you very carefully and I have heard you repeat many things that you have already had the opportunity to say in this House and in other instances, but you have not answered the questions I have put to you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u55	Just like that! It's the custom!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u56	The important thing is to look at the data that are observable today and draw conclusions and I have not seen Mr. Prime Minister look at the data and draw conclusions. If he did, he would necessarily be saying that the government will consider the actions it needs to correct to have a different approach than the one he has followed and that bad results have come forward. Mr. Prime Minister, there are additional data that the INE did not disclose today but that have been released. The value of late payments to suppliers of the State over 180 days has grown steadily — a matter that was on the verge of being resolved in the recent past and is now worsening again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u57	It's getting worse again!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u58	This is a very precise indicator of the difficulties that the State has to solve its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u59	Again!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u60	We know, despite what Mr. Prime Minister here said about the acceleration of Community funds, that the biggest complaint today is about the paralysis of Portugal 2020. So there's something wrong here, Prime Minister. Between the intentions and the rhetoric of the government and the facts is very different. If the Prime Minister does not change this strategy, it will not be in time to correct the results this year. And Mr. Prime Minister still takes little time from the past of this government, but that is already beginning to be very bad and very little promising for what the Portuguese can expect in the near future.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u62	Mr Prime Minister, there is another issue that I would like to raise and which, of course, does not prevent the Government from being able to correct this economic strategy in the short term, and I hope that it can correct and I hope, once again, as I said earlier, that the Government will change the way, very incongruently, as it has been communicating possible corrections to the budget implementation this year, now saying that there are measures for 2016, now saying that there is no, now saying that, if necessary, it is taking them and that it is working on them, now saying that it has no one and that the only thing it has to do this budget as it should be... We no longer know what the government wants, but I am convinced that the Prime Minister will clarify these matters in the near future. As I said, the subject I would like to raise has to do with the following: in recent days, we have concentrated some observation and debate on association contracts and we know that the government is determined to pursue this policy, although we disagree frontally, either from the point of view of principles or from the point of view of material information that supports government decisions. There is something else we know: it is certainly not the need to make savings that determines this political inflection that has been decided, because we have made a lot of savings and we have reduced the state's spending on this type of contract in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u63	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u64	I conclude, Mr. President. The question is this: the last study we have on costs that will allow us to make more accurate decisions on this matter was presented by the Court of Auditors a few years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u65	In 2009!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u66	I think it would be important to obtain, before any new decision is made, recent data. The proposal that the PSD will present to Parliament is to request that the National Education Council present reliable accounts, so that the impact of decisions of this kind can be realized, hoping that the government, while this matter is not decided, will not precipitate any decision. The constructive challenge that I wanted to leave to Mr Prime Minister is that this year, he does not take the decision that has already been announced and waits for this study so that we can decide, for next year, with stability and predictability for families and for the educational community, which is best. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u67	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u68	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I am glad that he puts this issue, because it allows us to resolve something that is a manifest error in his speech. The debate that you want to do is certainly interesting and we are always available to do so. We are therefore available to debate whether the promotion of education should be based on public school or whether it should be based on freedom of choice between public and private education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u69	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u70	The question now is not that. The question is concerning association contracts. The association contracts are very clearly defined in the Specific and Cooperative Education Statute. These contracts are not an instrument of freedom of choice, they are a subsidiary instrument to supply, through private or cooperative education, deficiencies in the public network. That's all association contracts are. [[Congratulations from the PS and from the members of the BE and the PCP.]] Therefore, where there are deficiencies in the public network there may be association contracts and where there are no deficiencies there may be association contracts. Mr President, the contracts which have been signed by your Government may have misled some people about what is available there, but what is very clear there is: to ensure, on a multiannual basis, that they are met and financed with an association contract by the boys until they complete the cycle in which they are enrolled. It means who's number two. the basic cycle can conclude the 2. the basic cycle, who's in 3. the basic cycle can complete the third cycle of the basic, who is in secondary can complete the secondary, but what will not happen — nor is it guaranteed in these contracts — is the transition from cycle to cycle and the opening of new classes in the first years of previous cycles. That's not guaranteed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So what is the government doing? You are doing your best, which is to apply the law and scrupulously fulfill the contracts that your Government has signed. No child covered by this contract shall cease to complete the cycle under association contract. That's what you're hired to do, and that's what's going to be done. As regards the opening of new classes, we are also doing what we are responsible for, which is to assess what are the shortcomings of the public network and, where they exist, new classes will be created and, where they do not exist, no new classes will be created. We're just applying the law. contrary to what you say, there is no decision, there is a process that has been initiated by the Ministry of Education, which has been working with the directors of the groups, who have been working with the services of the Ministry, who has been listening to the authorships, who has been working with the representative association of the colleges, with which, in fact, has a marked meeting for the next Tuesday, and will do this exercise by hearing the different stakeholders.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u71	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u72	There is one thing that is essential for us to realize: these contracts are only contracts to replace the public network. I want to tell you that on private and cooperative colleges, I do not have an identical view of the trade unions in Portugal. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] So I don't embolish colleges, be private, be cooperative.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u73	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u74	And we do not, of course, exclude continuing to work and count on these colleges for projects that are necessary, which are not provided by the public network and which correspond to the implementation of the Government Programme. The Government programme has very ambitious goals, for example, in the generalization of preschoolers up to three years. Now there is an area where it is essential to have partnerships so that the universalization of pre-primary education can be accomplished up to three years. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u75	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u76	So we're not diabolizing anything! We are not confused, nor demagogy, at the expense of the trust and tranquillity that children and families have to have in relation to what you have hired and, by the way, has deceived people about what you have hired. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u77	Mrs. Members of the PSD, there are regiment formulas to defend the honour that do not go through spoiling the furniture. If you want to use any of these formulae, the Bureau is available. Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u78	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, to begin with, I am taking advantage of reaffirming the PS position on birth. Yes, the PS, as it shows, being in favour of the family allowance and the valuation of the family allowance, is also in favour of birth. Some who are against birth, although they talk about it every day, taking advantage of it only to attack it and harm it. But let's move forward, Prime Minister. [[CDS-PP protests.]] We follow with great commitment and enthusiasm the government's commitment to education, since with this bet it realises key aspects of the programme it presented to this Parliament. Once again, on the setting up of the education network for the next year, we welcome the direction defined from the beginning by the Ministry of Education and today confirmed and reaffirmed by the Prime Minister: that of respecting the contracts signed by the previous Government and making new contracts only when necessary. The Socialist Party would never, on behalf of public money management, want to disregard contracts. For this purpose, the practice of the former Government has been enough. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We welcome the fact that the government's path is being put into practice, fulfilling the Constitution, complying with the law, and without any legislative novelty. The only novelty is that this Government respects the Constitution, complies with the law and executes the contracts in accordance with the rules of the tenders which gave rise to those contracts. We know that a democratic society values the plural offer of educational projects, but we will not look at the obligation to defend public school, because the public school does not choose territories or avoid territories, the public school does not choose students, nor does it choose teachers for ideological reasons, for political reasons or for religious options. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u79	Don't you choose? Oh, my God! You don't know the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u80	Public school is for everyone! Only public school can be for all and guarantee equal opportunities and therefore we cannot accept that public school becomes a supplement to private school. [[CDS-PP protests.]] We do not allow the unacceptable practice of closing classes in public education to open up space for new classes in private. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, contrasting with the serenity and determination of the government, some political agents manifestly lost the north, trying to make education a field of battle without a quartile. [[PSD laughter.]] The leader of the largest party of the position, perhaps tired of being systematically surpassed by the former coalition partner, thought it was time to make a living. And to that end, he found nothing better than starting the personal attack on the Minister of Education and on the attack on trade unions, which shows that he has lost any respect for the social-democracy that still exists on his behalf. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, for a complete reversal of constitutional values, he argued that where there are private schools, it is not worth investing in public schools. Mr Prime Minister, this is where I am asking you a question. Mr Prime Minister brought to Portuguese policy the challenge of an Agenda for the Decade and the idea that, beyond normal, and even healthy, differences between majority and opposition, in some areas the country needs substantive convergences that go beyond the horizon of legislatures. Education is certainly one of the fields where this need is most evident. But in this way, the country faces a difficulty: radicalism and the irresponsibility of some opposition I just mentioned. Mr Prime Minister, how will it be achieved, without failing to comply with the Government's Programme and therefore without failing to fulfill our promises, to move forward, in education, this Agenda for the Decade that the Country would surely need and benefit? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u81	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u82	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, it is indeed necessary for the country to resume rebalancing and broad consensus as they have been in Portugal for decades. In fact, the largest basis of national consensus is the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, because it, among those who approved it in its original version and those who approved it in its successive revisions, is and must be the common basis of understanding among all political forces in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What has broken the possibility of widespread consensus in Portugal is a radical, ideological drift from the Portuguese right. The right has exhausted its roots Christian and social Christian democrats and has become a very clear neoliberalism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not sin, and I have, in fact, repeatedly praised the coherence with which Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, since he assumed the leadership of the PSD, clearly exposed his thought, with the draft constitutional review which he presented immediately to the head. It is an identity card that leaves no doubts about the new nature of the PSD and the new ideology in force in the PSD. The PSD is today the majority party in the Portuguese right and, therefore, today the majority force in the Portuguese right is contaminated by this neoliberal radicalism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is this neoliberal radicalism that led to breaking consensus on the basis of the Constitution, based on the Basics of Social Security Act, or on the basis of the Basics Law of the Educational System. The case of this debate is particularly significant. What are we arguing about? We are discussing a purely administrative issue. There was no amendment to the basic law, there was no amendment to the Statute of Private and Cooperative Education, we are simply discussing an administrative issue. Are there contracts that have been signed by the previous government and this government should or should not comply with them? He's got to do it! There is a principle of State continuity, signed contract is a contract that must be honored and this government scrupulously fulfils the contracts signed by the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What are the contracts available? They provide that a set of schools have the right to have a certain number of classes under association contract, i.e. payment of 100 % by taxpayers. However, the best evidence that what is at issue here is to replace the shortcomings of the public network and not establish a general principle of freedom of choice, is that only 3 % of Portuguese colleges benefit from association contracts. If freedom of choice were to be involved, then one would ask: why do those schools have the right to be financed by the State and the other schools do not have the same right? What would justify this distortion in competition? [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] Why is it that a family, which, in exercising its freedom of choice, includes their children in a private school, must bear the costs of this private college, without being supported by the State, and the families of these schools must not bear the costs, which are borne by the State? There is only one reason and the only reason is that these contracts are of exceptional nature and are justified solely by the fact that there is no public offer and it must be ensured through private schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is therefore a strictly administrative issue that is resolved in good sense and in dialogue. in the limit, if there are differences, in their own means, which are the courts. What the PSD proposes has nothing to do with association contracts. What Dr. Passos Coelho has proposed is an inversion of what is in the Constitution and what is in the law itself and in the Statute of Private and Cooperative Establishments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What Dr. Passos Coelho proposed was not that private schools should be supported by the State where the State did not secure the public network. What he said was that the State should not develop the public network to ensure that education was provided by private schools. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] We all heard this question, a question of the greatest political importance: "But what does it mean for the State to be building a school in a land where there is already a private school under all conditions to ensure education for the children of this land? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Now, we fully understand what it meant and what was the effective strategy of the successive court in the financing of the public school that was continued over the four years and, above all, what is the plan that the Portuguese right has today for schools. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] That is why it is necessary to return the serenity of the debate to the terms in which it must be placed, without fear of any other debate to be held, but which is not the debate on association contracts. These debates are of interest to many people. They are interested in people who are investors in schools, teachers and employees of these schools, families who have their children there,... [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u83	... to children who attend them and therefore for them what we have to do is a serious, responsible dialogue of scrupulous compliance of what is contracted and realize that there are other forms of partnership, where there are shortcomings, even in those places where the mere continuity of schools no longer justifies the existence of association contracts. And there are challenges we have to improve our education system in the Government Programme and the National Reform Programme. The generalization of pre-schoolers up to three years is a particularly clear example and where for them the State necessarily needs to mobilize all and have new partnerships. However, making association contracts what they are not would be violating the law and the Constitution. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u84	To request clarification, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u85	Mr President, Prime Minister, we cannot look at the Portuguese economy today as if the past did not exist and the 15-year debate serves to examine, so in dialogue we can see which are the best ways. Today is May 13, 2016 and it is particularly interesting to look at the news published six months ago about the same indicator, about the INE's fast, quarterly estimate. It says the news that I will be able to distribute : « Portugal is again impoverishing against partners, only three countries have been worse ». And this is the basis for analysis, not only of the Socialist Party's Election Programme, but also of the political programme presented here by the XXI Constitutional Government in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Only three countries were worse and only three countries were worse when today we know that the international context has deteriorated, in particular, in external markets with strong links and strong links to the Portuguese economy, as are, of course, Angolan and Brazilian markets, to give only two examples. Let's go further. Let us look at the counterfactual element: what would have happened if this government had not waged to stimulate further domestic demand? Mr Pedro Passos Coelho said: « The unemployment figures are not those we expected». Mr President, if we had not invested any more, as a priority, in domestic demand, you would be here today saying that unemployment would have increased and increased much more. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And for the Socialist Party, the use of Portuguese is never, ever, a variable of adjustment. For us, employment has always been our priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, we cannot look at the INE numbers and the quick estimate and say: « My gentlemen, priority is the external markets, you are wrong to have as priority the internal demand». Mrs. Members, this has only one consequence, which is to increase unemployment, and if that is your solution, then we have, in fact, different paths and the Socialist Party has always presented a different path. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me add, because it is worth looking at unemployment numbers. Unemployment figures have an interesting reality: the real unemployment rate, the one that the VV government. Ex. always used to mask us with various juggles, for the first time in this trimester, it descended below 1 million unemployed. Let me say more: it has fallen below 1 million unemployed, because long-term unemployment has fallen, the number of discouraged has fallen and the number of unemployed is busy... [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to listen carefully, because if you do not realize that there is another way and you are stuck to your beliefs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] Mr President, listen carefully, because if you do not listen carefully you will insist on the same mistake: the number of unemployed people, who, as we know, do not count statistically, but it is a reality of Portuguese society, has come down this quarter. Mrs. Members, I say more: Portugal has a priority, which is to increase investment to increase employment, converge, increase income to increase tax revenue. Our strategy has never been the impoverishment of remaining in the euro and in the European Union. More impoverishment is not a solution for this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister: our priority is investment, it is corporate capitalization. I wonder what the Portuguese Government is planning to do in this area, because this is the path that the Socialist Party is defending, this is the path that will give us more qualified employment, more tax revenue and the sustainability of the social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u86	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u87	Mr President, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, you are right, what the numbers reveal is right in priorities. And does employment have to be a priority? Of course it must be a priority, because unemployment was one of the worst results of previous governance. Is it necessary to invest? Of course, because the investment fell to the 80s and there is no relaunch without any investment. But how can we create investment conditions? We define two lines of fundamental action. Firstly, speed up the implementation of Community funds because, in the face of a context of public finances as difficult as ours, it has to be based on Community funds, not on own resources or with indebtedness of the State or the authorities or regions, which we can relaunch investment. We have been almost two years in this new cycle of Community funds without a penny reaching companies. in these nearly six months, we have already exceeded the 160 million money entered the companies and are making a great effort to conclude late payments in the QREN by the end of next month. Secondly, it is necessary to create conditions for companies to benefit from monetary policy and this depends essentially on the capitalisation of companies. Today, a very interesting article was published in Dr. Cristina Casalinho's Business Journal, stressing once again the key issue that has been hidden for four years, a critical issue that has to do with the debt situation of the non-financial business sector and also the financial sector. It is not because we pretend that problems do not exist that they do not arise. We must take up the problems ahead and, therefore, one of the first measures we have taken was the construction of this Mission Unit which is completing its work, has already received the contributions of all the members of the Monitoring Committee and, on 16 June, will present its final work, providing for a set of legislative measures which will need to be adopted. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u88	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm going to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u89	... to create conditions for companies to improve their level of financial autonomy. When we have an average of 30 % financial autonomy in companies, we obviously have a large investment block. Let us be clear: in the constraints we have, we cannot relaunch the economy based on public investment. We have to do with private investment, but in order for private investment to exist, there is a need for Community funds to support them and the problem of corporate capitalisation needs to be solved. That's what we're working on and we're going to go on, but we can't live in the anguish of every quarter. However, there is something I also want to say about the anguish of each quarter...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u90	Mr. Prime Minister, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u91	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. What INE's numbers on employment reveal is that the population now employed is more than one year ago, that the unemployed population is now less than one year ago, that the youth unemployment rate has decreased in this quarter compared to the previous quarter and that the long-term unemployment rate has decreased this quarter compared to the previous quarter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's no reason to throw rockets, but it's also necessary to respond to those who throw rockets when the numbers aren't so good. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u92	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u93	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have tried to do an exercise to understand the right in relation to association contracts. It is because when a topic raises so much controversy, so many problems in the country, we should try to realize what it is, that is, what it is that moves the right, which has been in a frenzy on association contracts and today, in the debate, has been so exalted. Is the right to defend the freedom of private and cooperative education in the country? Or the possibility of confessional teaching in the country? Or the freedom of families to choose private education or confessional education for their children? Well, it would be natural, but that's not what it's all about. Association contracts have only 3 % of private schools. Private, private, cooperative, confessional schools will continue to exist. The generality of people can continue to make this choice in private and, therefore, this is not about freedom, certainly.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u95	Is it about the stability of children? We take the stability of children and young people seriously, but what is being done does not call into question the stability of any educational course, except the normal changes that exist in both public and private schools in cycle changes. My daughter will pass from 1. or to the 2nd. the cycle and it'll change school. It's life! It's like this in public school. in private school that's the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u97	It's not a drama for children. Therefore, it is not the stability of the children that is at stake, of course. [[Congratulations from BE, The Greens and PS Members.]] Is it, then, a concern on the right with teachers and non-teachers in private school? I must say that this is a legitimate concern and we follow. But then I look at who is concerned and I see PSD and CDS who in recent years have condemned the unemployment of tens of thousands of teachers and even invited them to emigrate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u99	Therefore, we agree, it is not the right that is concerned about school workers, whether public or private. You've never been before! [[Congratulations from BE, The Greens and PS Members.]] Is it the quality of the offer? But if it is the quality of the offer, why is the school of the Cerco do Porto that receives science prizes losing children to private schools? Or why is the school of Peace of Brandão that received merit from the previous government is losing children for the school of Santa Maria de Lamas?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u100	Contracts are not only in the Porto region, it is poorly informed!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u101	Or why is the school in Taveiro, where I was yesterday, which has such an interesting offer, missing children for the school in São Martinho? Well, what moves the right also can't be the quality of the school. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Finally, will it be the public accounts? Let's see: if a public school has installed capacity and only half the classes, we're spending more public money than we should, because a school that's using its means in full less per student. It is easy to see: a sports pavilion with half the classes is not much more expensive to the state than a sports pavilion with all the classes, even above if the state is to pay the classes to the private? [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] That is to lose money, therefore, it is not the public accounts that concern the right. What we know is that if redundancy did not exist, and with accounts that were made by this government, but also by the previous and even by the troika, we would be saving EUR 15 million a year. EUR 15 million per year was the same as the right cut into social action in school and in support of special education in public school. So what moves the right is to protect an income of 15 million euros in redundancy for your friends from private colleges. Nothing else moves right! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Pedro Passos Coelho came to say that this government might have somewhat transparent criteria. But did Pedro Passos Coelho explain why in a parish with 5000 inhabitants pay a college — Lamas College — 74 classes in association contracts? I think that is an intransparent criterion. The question I ask you, Prime Minister, is whether there is any criterion, other than that of redundancy and that of the public network, for amendments to association contracts. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u102	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u103	Mr. President, I welcome you respectfully. Mrs Catarina Martins, I think she very well characterized the way the right has tried to distort this debate. This debate is not about a problem of freedom, it is about a problem of legality and about a law that has not been made by this government, it has not been done by this majority, but it is the law that prevails in the country: the Constitution, the Basic Law of the Education System, the Law of the Statute of Special and Cooperative Education. These are the criteria we have to follow. And the only criterion to review association contracts is precisely that: redundancy. What we need to know is whether, in a particular school, there is a lack of network that justifies making new association contracts, and we will do them, or if there is no justification for new association contracts, and we will not. All the rest is to want to awaken an ideological and even religious war where it makes no sense. The honourable Member said, well, that it is 3% of private schools, but in all of these 79 schools, only 25 are that they have a confessional nature. Therefore, it is certainly not a religious issue that is at issue here, and that would be absolutely unacceptable at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u105	We are particularly demanding in comparability on redundancy, because we recognize that there are some establishments which, by the specific nature of their nature, may not be redundant in relation to public supply. For example, it is the case of schools that have associated homes where children are institutionalized and where the institutionalization of the child is part of the educational project itself. In fact, the public network does not have an offer and can justify this differentiation. Therefore, we are analyzing case by case, listening to the autarchs, schools, associations, parents, teachers, groups about the effective needs. Where there is a public school, but it does not have physical conditions to accommodate children, we will not end association contracts, i.e. we will not open new competitions for new association contracts. But there is one thing that is right: we will fulfill the contracts that exist, because that is how the law commands, and that is how it should be. The honourable Member said, well, that the only criterion is redundancy. The other debate is very interesting, but then the right that has the courage to assume, to propose and then we will do it. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u107	Mr. Prime Minister, I thank you for your compliments, which I pay, of course. You have the floor again, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u108	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, this is the same: it is not about freedom, it is not about the stability of families, it is not about teachers, it is not a problem of quality of supply, it is not about saving money to the state. Redundances in association contracts are only guaranteed income to private businesses and these have to end, because it is the way to defend the social state and public service. Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to make you a challenge so that the path against income can extend to other sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u109	To everything that's private!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u110	The health budget in the years of the PSD government / CDS has recovered EUR 5584 million, but increased the payment to private individuals. We spend almost 450 million euros on PPP in health. Each year we contracted EUR 1300 million in complementary diagnostic and therapeutic means and EUR 633 million per year in service provision and there is installed capacity in public hospitals that is not being used. We know that it is not possible to end all day-to-night contractualization, because people's access to health requires some level of contractualization, but certainly does not require income such as PPPs, nor contracts so high when there are hospitals capable of doing more. Even now, we have been in Elvas where we are guaranteed that there they have reinstalled capacity for diagnostics, and with this they are saving resources. That is why I challenge you if the government would not be available now to study a way to end these overlaps and health incomes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u111	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are guided by the scrupulously management of public money in all fields and also by health. That is why the Ministry of Health has been developing a set of studies both for the re-evaluation of PPPs and for the re-evaluation of contractual forms in relation to these complementary means of diagnosis or other, or on the development of ADSE. These studies are being completed and, once completed, they will be made publicly available, will be evaluated and decisions will be taken. But the criterion has to be to guarantee and strengthen the National Health Service, as in education it has to bet and strengthen the public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u113	You have the floor again, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u114	Mr President, Prime Minister, when we speak of choice, in these things ours is clear: we choose public school, we choose the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u116	It is precisely to protect the social state that we think income and redundancy have no meaning. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you another question about another availability in an area in which I think we can move forward. It was possible to stop the execution of tax-debt housing so that those who lost everything would not miss the house either. But we know that the problems don't stop here. Every day that passes there are 71 cases of non-compliance with housing credit. Given numbers a year ago, we can say that about 150 000 families are at risk of losing their habit. The question I want to leave you with is whether the government is available to study mechanisms to stop the execution of penhor dwellings from the bank as well. Because the principle of defending the right to housing, because protecting those who have already lost everything has to be a priority. In conclusion, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to say the following: today, we have heard the right to speak with concern about the economy. We also believe that investment is needed, but we well know that the right-wing strategy made the economy worse one year ago and employment as well. We want a lot more, a lot more to answer, but we know austerity is not an answer. We have seen the nervousness of the European institutions with our country's recovery policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u117	Madam Member, I'm going to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u118	I shall conclude, Mr President. We know that the Portuguese right always hopes that the European institutions will be able to allow you what you did not have in the polls. But we also know that the European institutions are using Portugal as blackmail against voters in Spain where forces against austerity grow and there may even be a different government. When in Spain one looks to Portugal with hope, because it is seen that there are policies to stop impoverishment, all European blackmail against this hope is also an attack on our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u120	So, Prime Minister, I would like to assure you here what has already been guaranteed when we saw these pressures in the debate of the State budget. The Left Block here is determined for a stable majority in the recovery of income and can withstand all pressure from Brussels. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u121	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with the second question. at present, the European Union has two completely distinct evaluations : one, on the year 2016. Now, for the first time in 2016, the European Commission expects Portugal to have a deficit of less than 3 %. I repeat, for the first time. This is a very important development of the European Commission because, as we recall, when we started the budget debate here, the European Commission planned for 2016 a deficit of 3, 4 % and what the European Commission has been doing is an approximation of the objectives approved in our Budget: the reduction of the deficit of 3, 4 % to 2, 7 % at the moment. It is true that 2, 7 % is still above our target, but this is the first time that the European Commission has planned a deficit of less than 3 %. And even if our implementation corresponded to the scepticism of the European Union, this meant irony of the irony, that the budget approved by us and executed by us would be the one that would ensure the lowest deficit in 42 years of democracy and one of the lowest deficits in the whole south of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ironically, the other analysis that is being done is that of the 2013 / 2015 period. As for the 2015 outcome, we already know that unfortunately the European Commission's conclusion is that by withdrawing all extraordinary measures, both on the side of expenditure and on the side of revenue — the BANIFs and all other revenue — the deficit is 3, 2 %, that is, far from the 2, 7 % to which the previous government had proposed itself. Therefore, the evaluation that the European Commission is making today is in the face of this failure to implement the budget in the period 2013 / 2015. Our understanding is that, regardless of the hardness and cruelty of the numbers, it is essential to defend the national interest, the same is to defend justice for Portugal and for the Portuguese. It would be highly unfair, after what was a policy supported by the European Commission, to what were the gross sacrifices inflicted by the former Government on the Portuguese people, which we still have to be punished for the failure of the policies that the previous Government has followed and which caused these results that have not led to the necessary consolidation of public finances. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] We are therefore going to beat ourselves for what we need to beat ourselves and to verify that when, for so many years, we said that it was not with austerity doses on austerity doses that we would be able to reduce the deficit below 3%, unfortunately, we were right and the strategy followed by the previous government, unfortunately, did not result and did not lead to a reduction in deficit. It may be ironic, but the truth is this : the European Commission for the first time foresees a deficit of less than 3 % to the current government, supported in particular by the honourable Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It'll be an irony of fate, but I'd say it's a happy irony of fate. I do not want to stop answering the first question. I think we have taken a very important step by blocking the burden of taxation. We are available to consider other ways. The President of the Republic himself, at the time of the promulgation of the diploma and the celebration of the 50 years of the Civil Code, expressed concerns about this matter, and I myself asked for data on the situation because I have the indication that, in situations where real estate claims are not complied with, in general cases, there has been no trouble but, rather, conversion of contracts, restructuring of debts and other forms which have allowed the parties to come to an understanding.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u123	I will ask you to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u124	I will now finish, Mr President. What is crucial, of course, is not to eliminate the obligation that people have to pay, but to ensure that, in the face of exceptional situations of life, there is no loss of the right to housing, because that is the constitutional right that must be guaranteed in all circumstances. The data available to me do not indicate at this time the need for additional measures, but, if you have any additional data to demonstrate it, I would like to thank you for telling me why this is obviously a matter of concern to me. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u125	To put questions, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u126	Mr President, Prime Minister, first of all, and taking into account the issue of house crash, I would like to leave the following note: we presented, and brought down to the committee, a bill on this matter. Here is a good basis and a positive contribution from the PCP. [[PCP applause.]] With regard to the issue which has been dealt with by the association contracts, we essentially follow the vision, criteria and options of the Government, taking into account the Constitution and taking into account the role of the public, universal, quality, free of charge for all compulsory education, and the role and space of these private schools with association contracts. I believe that this debate has been clarifying and is progressing significantly, taking into account the dramatization that has been made and positions that we consider unacceptable by the PSD and the CDS. Today, we see the PSD and CDS in a crusade invoking even the rights of teachers and other private and cooperative education workers. Does the Prime Minister have any record of the previous government regarding respect for the legal and labour framework of private schools with association contracts? Do you have any record of the redundancies that have happened in the last four years? Do you have any record of the brutal increase in the hourly load—more than 20 %—of these teachers? in this sense, Prime Minister, we consider the answer to be one: no. The PSD/CDS government has abandoned these teachers. Today, try to instrumentalize them,... [[PCP applause.]] ... but we believe that, in this debate and in what is to be followed, we must also take into account the respect for the rights of these teachers, those teachers who, as a whole, were deeply shaken by the right-wing policy that this government has achieved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u127	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u128	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the legislative initiative of the CFP is obviously an excellent opportunity to make this reflection on the question of extending non-improvement in cases of non-compliance. The subject, which is relevant, concerning the employment of teachers, has been emphasized. But it is worth noting that in the last four years 28 000 places of teachers have been destroyed in public school. It is clear that we have all seen a reorganization of the public school network in recent years as a result of demographic effects. It is hard to imagine that, having existed this reorganization in public school, it does not also reflect in other sectors of the education system. It would be very strange if the demographic effect were only projected on one of the sectors. However, we cannot see association contracts as a substitute for unemployment benefit. Association contracts have the function they have and we do not despise or ignore, nor is it irrelevant to us, what can happen to employment in schools where new association contracts are not opened because they become unnecessary for redundancy towards the public network. So we have said — I said it a little ago and I will repeat — that we do not devilize these schools and much less those who work there. In fact, we admit and feel that for the implementation of the Government Programme and the National Reform Programme there are other areas where such partnerships are necessary. I have given the example of the generalization of preschoolers up to 3 years old. It is a very ambitious goal that only on the basis of the public network cannot be assured at first. There are other domains: artistic education, adult education, lifelong education. There are new domains where, perhaps, these establishments will have to find ways for new activities in order to continue their activity and which are essential to the country. Being essential to the country, they will necessarily have the State as a partner, because, I insist, we do not have private colleges or cooperative colleges the vision that a part of the right has today about the unions in Portugal. That's not our vision and I'm sure that's not the vision of the PCP either. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So there are other ways. Association contracts are for what they are and are defined for many years and cannot and should not be used for purposes other than complementarity, that of being of an additional nature where there is a shortage of the public network. This is assessed on a case-by-case basis and not, of course, in a general and abstract manner. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u129	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u130	Mr President, Prime Minister, the CFP has long been expressing concern about the real objectives and consequences of the so-called Transatlantic Treaty, which is being negotiated secretly by the United States of America and the European Union. in the last few days, these concerns are being confirmed as the content of what has been agreed is becoming known. Today, it is increasingly clear that the Transatlantic Treaty contains serious threats to diverse sectors of the domestic processing and agri-food industry, which will be more exposed to increased competition. It also closes serious threats to employment and labour rights. It closes dangerous threats to the environment, food safety, public health when opening up the standard that prohibits, restricts or controls the cultivation and marketing of genetically modified organisms, the use of growth hormones, among other examples, being favourable to the interests of the major trades of industry and agribusiness. It closes serious threats to public services, being seen as an opportunity to promote liberalisation, the privatization of public services in areas such as education, water, energy, solid waste, and would serve to deepen the marketing of culture. It would further deepen the liberalisation of financial services, the movement of capital with the consequent reduction of control, supervision and safeguard mechanisms. It would constitute an added threat to national sovereignty and the capacity of a State to define its economic and social policies and to introduce a dispute resolution mechanism between States and large economic and financial groups, which is unacceptable. Mr. Prime Minister, how does the government see these threats? What balance does it make of the impact of the agreement on the country's economic, social and cultural life? What are you considering in relation to this agreement, with other levels of development, and questioning its conditions and its impact on the productive sectors, for example, how is France in relation to its agriculture? There are countries that are doing for life. Mr. Prime Minister, we cannot have the role of verb-de-filling in such a sensitive matter as this. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u131	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u132	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the Government considers it very important that the Assembly of the Republic accompany this negotiation closely. That is why Mr Foreign Minister is fully available for the House to hold, as close as I would like, a hearing where the Government can develop all the information on this negotiation, which, of course, will not allow me to give the two minutes and 19 seconds I have available. In any event, I should like to say from now on, firstly, that public services are outside the Treaty and will not be the subject of the Treaty and secondly, that the negotiating mandate granted to the European Commission is imperative not to accept any reduction in European standards, whether in terms of environmental protection, food safety or public health, which means that concerns concerning genetically modified organisms cannot be accepted by the European Union in accordance with the mandate given to it. It is true that this negotiation raises concerns, such as opportunities. Clearly concerned and we have already been accompanied by the generality of the countries of the European Union, as well as by the refusal of arbitration mechanisms. Concerns also about the impact on our productive tissue, and there the studies available indicate that Portugal and, in particular, small and medium-sized Portuguese companies will be the main beneficiaries of a possible reduction in tariffs. However, in the agri-food sector there are obvious benefits for sub-sectors such as wine or olive oil, but, on the other hand, there are difficulties such as tomato processing, which is essentially the result of the great competition that California introduces regarding our tomato processing. These evaluation studies are done and it is necessary to be assessed so that we can benefit as much as possible from the opportunities that the contract opens and prevent as much as possible the risks it also necessarily contains. But as I began, I conclude: without prejudice to the follow-up made by the Portuguese Members in the European Parliament, it is essential that this Assembly of the Republic closely accompany these negotiations and for that reason the Government, through its Minister for Foreign Affairs, is fully available to come to a hearing and work with the Assembly of the Republic, in accordance with what is most appropriate, for a demanding follow-up to and from this negotiation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u133	To request clarification, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u134	Mr President, Prime Minister, these concerns regarding the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership reinforce our concerns, particularly in the light of national sovereignty and also taking into account a central issue for us, which is the need for increased national production. And it is about national production that we want to ask you the last question. We have brought here the concerns of the pig farming sector and the dairy sector, which still need a response, although there is some progress on the part of the Government in this matter. Today we have another example that calls for measures to ensure support for national production. Caris and STCP will soon launch competitions for the acquisition of about 500 new buses for the renewal and requalification of their fleets. It is also known that some 1000 used buses have been imported in the last three years. of 50 % of newly acquired buses in the same period, a significant part of these buses, 75 %, does not even result from compliance with European pollution standards, as is the case with EURO IV standard, which has been in force for 10 years. Mr Prime Minister is aware of the economic difficulties facing national bodybuilding companies. So I ask you: will you take some measures necessary for the acquisitions of Carris and STCP to favour national production?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u135	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President, I just need another 10 seconds. It is time to put an end to the scandals of public procurement, where national production was predicated. And in this regard, we ask: will you take some measures, in particular to monitor imports and the movement of used buses, which will result in an unacceptable, because unfair, competition with national production? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u137	Mr Prime Minister no longer has time to answer, so we move on to the next intervention. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, of the Greens Ecological Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u138	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, now on this TTIP issue, I would like to inform the Prime Minister and all those who are listening to us - that the Greens have taken the initiative to schedule for June - and will be discussed at the next Leaders Conference - an urgent debate here in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, precisely on these transatlantic treaties. We believe it is very important to open the debate, because secrecy and the lack of transparency with which these business, agreements, are seeking to be realized, particularly with the European Union and the United States of America, but also with Canada, must deeply concern us and we believe that the Assembly of the Republic, particularly the Members, can make a contribution to raising the veil when discussing these matters. Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to say something about association contracts. Association contracts, says the law, are dynamic contracts, are not made vitally. In other words, what happens is that they are done about the need to offer a service to populations and children, starting from the public school's inability to offer. However, when public school responds, it is clear that these association contracts are no longer meaningful. Therefore, they have their own dynamics that requires a permanent update and the larger the offer, and so desired, of the less meaningful public school make the association contracts. It is not surprising, of course, that those who carried the entire mandate — PSD and CDS — in an unprecedented attack on public school, who sought the privatization of the social functions of the State, where the public school is located, are opposed to this option that leads to the law. in this sense, Prime Minister, I would like to congratulate the Government on its firmness in the renegotiation, so call it association contracts. The Greens believe that bets and funding should be directed to public school and that association contracts should be made when the public school offer cannot be implemented. On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to raise a question on the subject of glyphosate. If Mr. Prime Minister is so determined to go to Brussels to defend the non-application of sanctions to Portugal due to the level of the deficit, in particular 2015, I request him. What do I ask of you? That, with the same firmness, the Government goes to Brussels to say 'No' to glyphosate and that, on 18 May, when deciding in Brussels, precisely on the expert committee, voting on the renewal, or not, of the licence for the use of glyphosate, is an active voice for the prohibition of the use of glyphosate. This is because in fact, Prime Minister, we are talking about a substance, a herbicide, which has profound negative effects on human health. This is what the World Health Organization told us, in particular through the International Agency for Cancer Research. It is a silent and more silent poison, Mr. Prime Minister, when it is not even monitored at the level of our food and, in particular, at the level of water. It does not enter as an evaluation parameter to determine whether these foods or water contain this substance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u139	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u140	I will finish, Mr. President. Now, let's go to a very small history, because time is over. It was cast here in the Assembly of the Republic, with the votes against the PSD and the CDS and the abstention of the PS, a draft resolution that The Greens presented, precisely for the prohibition of the use of glyphosate. It is unfortunate that he has been plunged, because he would indeed be an effective response to the preservation of the environment and human health. In the meantime, the Minister for Agriculture has admitted the possibility of prohibiting the use of glyphosate in urban areas. Yesterday, the Ministry of Agriculture determined the prohibition of taloamine, a substance that does not represent glyphosate as a whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u141	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u142	Attention, Prime Minister, because the World Health Organization binds glyphosate to cancer and determines that the effects of glyphosate are highly harmful to human health, not only one of its substances, but glyphosate as a whole. And it is about this that the government needs to have a decisive response. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u143	Mr. Prime Minister, before I give you the floor, I would like to inform the House that you have just taken a seat in the Tribunal B, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, for whom I would like a warm greeting. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Members, continuing our work, have the floor to reply to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u144	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, yesterday, as you said, the Government determined the seizure by 30 June of all products containing Talaomia, because it results from the evidence provided by the European Food Safety Association an unequivocal relationship on the carcinogenic potential of this substance. He said, well, that this substance is not the only one that makes up glyphosate and, as regards glyphosate, we await the meeting of the expert committee on next day 18 where we hope there will be a consensus, because there is only no consensus among experts that the issue will be raised at the level of the political decision. It is at this stage of the political decision that we will define an orientation. The Minister of Agriculture has already said that if there is no consensus and there is no conclusions from the European Commission, there will certainly be a determination by the Government of the prohibition on the use of glyphosate in urban areas and, progressively, in other sectors. But right now I do not want to anticipate those that will be the conclusions of the experts and we will do what we have to do, as if consolidating scientific evidence. It is made with regard to talaomia, having already been determined the seizure of all products containing it, including glyphosate containing talaomia, by 30 June, when it will have to leave the market. With regard to glyphosate in general and formulations of glyphosate without talaomia, we are now awaiting the decision of the Committee of Experts and will then take a decision on this matter. As for the initiative you have taken on the TTIP, we only have to say hello. The Minister's coming to a hearing with the Commission may indeed be a good way to prepare the urgent debate to be held here in plenary. We share both security concerns and their impact on national production, and this has to be critical of our concern, whether food goods or other goods. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa said recently — I am sorry to add the questions — the question of buying buses by Caris and the STCP. What is determined is that in the technical specifications of the competition cannot happen again what happened in the past, i.e. the adoption of technical specifications which exclude the possibility of buses produced in Portugal can go to the competition and be acquired by the companies. No one ignores that public procurement is fundamental to dynamising the national economy. We must, of course, do in respect of the rules, in a non-discriminatory way, but also in a non-ingenuity way and, above all, never by introducing discrimination on the contrary, which is the adoption of rules that allow the import of goods produced by others, but not the purchase of goods produced by ourselves. That would obviously be absurd, we can't do it, we can't even agree on it. As for the TTIP, Madam Member, it is with pleasure that we will be here to hold the debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u145	Mr André Silva has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u146	Mr President, Prime Minister, Greenpeace recently published 248 pages of talks between high European and national leaders that contradict the so-called TTIP benefits. This leak of information was followed by the launch of a joint report from several non-governmental organisations concluding that the advanced negotiations on the new judicial system, on investment in the framework of the TTIP and other trade and investment negotiations of the European Union, put the public interest in health and the environment at risk. On the basis of these developments and the lack of public and political debate on the subject, and regardless of the coming of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to a hearing, I would like to ask the Government and the Prime Minister whether, with the final agreement of the negotiations, which I hope will not happen, the Portuguese Government is available to bring it to this House for debate and vote before it is debated and voted in Europe itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u147	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u148	Mr President, Mr André Silva, the availability of the government is greater than that. The Government's availability is that, while the negotiations are under way — because this is the crucial moment for the formation of the agreement — this follow-up should be made not only by Portuguese Members in the European Parliament but also by Members in the Assembly of the Republic. The availability I showed was in this sense. Therefore, it is not only for there to be a final evaluation, it is for the evaluation to be made at the time when it is decisive that it is being done, which is during the negotiating period, because it is now that we can influence the final results of the agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u149	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u150	Mr President, Prime Minister, we consider it very positive that there is this involvement on the part of Parliament, by the political parties in the discussion during the negotiations, but I would like to reiterate the question: at the final agreement, there is availability on the part of the Government to bring this final agreement here the vote on this Parliament? I would like to ask you another question and return to the theme of the Central Nuclear of Almaraz, this time also to thank all parties for the unanimous approval of the draft resolution of the NAP which recommends to the Portuguese Government that it intervene with the Spanish Government, in order to proceed with the closure of this Central. However, it is a fact that Almaraz does not cease to be a time bomb with the approval of this recommendation. The risk of this Central, which has already passed its useful end of life, is real and daily, and the costs of any accident are unbearable for all Iberian citizens, beings and ecosystems.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u151	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u152	I will now finish, Mr President. And, Prime Minister, planning an Iberian demonstration in Cáceres on 11 June with various environmental protection movements, political parties and citizens, with a view to the closure of Almaraz, we wonder whether, within the framework of existing bilateral relations, a meeting is already planned with the President of the Spanish Government or whether there is any initiative by the honourable Members. Ministers for the Environment and Economics together with their Spanish counterparts on the subject. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u153	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u154	Mr President, Mr André Silva, obviously contacts have been maintained with the Spanish State both at the governmental level and at the technical level. Also in May, the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ) requested information from the Spanish Nuclear Security Council ( CSN ) for a technical meeting to accompany all the evaluation and all the data provided and are available for Central Security. And we have normally acted on bilateral mechanisms which, in fact, have been reassuring about the situation. Moreover, the question was raised at the meeting between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Spain, i.e. the question has been put at the governmental level. But, I insist, it has also been put at technical level, which is essential for us to be able to have the best information that ensures the essential, namely the safety of Portuguese populations and territory, and assess the environmental impacts, on any problem that may arise in this nuclear power plant. Therefore, despite the political situation in Spain, we have maintained contacts and of course we will continue this follow-up.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u155	We have thus concluded the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister. I thank the Prime Minister and the members of the Government for their presence. There are also a number of initiatives on our agenda which have not been allocated time for discussion. To know: projects of lein.os 157 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Transparency of holders of political positions and high public positions ( BE ), 160 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Fight unjustified enrichment ( BE), 218 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Tenth amendment to the Statute of Deputies adopted by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( PSD ), 219 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — No amendment to the Legal Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and High Public Charges, approved by Law No 64 / 93 of 26 August ( PSD ), 220 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ( Public control of the wealth of political office holders ) ( PSD ), 221 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Unjustified enrichment ( Thirty-fifth amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March, fourth amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July, and sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ) ( PCP ), 225 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulates the activity of professional representation of interests ( Lobbying ) ( CDS-PP ), and 226 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthens transparency in the exercise of political and high-level positions ( CDS-PP ) ; Supplementary budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2016 ; draft resolution No 313 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Support services of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ( RA President ) ; and Annual Report of the DNA Profile Database Monitoring Board - 2015. Before we move on to the last point of our agenda, which is the vote, Mr Secretary will give an account of the file. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u156	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 232 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Prohibits the application of products containing glyphosate in urban areas, leisure areas and channels of communication ( BE ), which fall to 7. the Commission, and 233 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 251 / 98 of 11 August, strengthening the deterrence of illegal activity in taxi transport ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u157	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. I would ask the services to act on their mechanism and on the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic table records 213 presences, to which 3 are added, signalled to the Bureau, of the Members. Deputies João Galamba, Maria Antonio Almeida Santos and Sérgio Sousa Pinto, of the PS, perf. 216 Sr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum for deliberation. Let us then begin the voting, beginning with vote No 77/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Out of regret and solidarity with the Canadian people for the fire in the province of Alberta, Canada ( PSD ). Mr Secretary will proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The fire that occurred in the province of Alberta, Canada, from the first Sunday of May, became the largest natural disaster in the history of this country, with a burning area of about 2000 km2. It was an impressive calamity that, in addition to large acres of forest, severely struck the city of Fort McMurray, where it destroyed more than 2000 homes. The oil fields to the north of this city were also threatened, involving the evacuation of thousands of people, including several Portuguese citizens. thus, it was seriously affected all the local economic activity, compromising the immediate future of very diverse companies that employ thousands of people, including several Portuguese. The Portuguese community living in this region has thus been strongly affected by this impressive disaster, which, inevitably, will condition their lives. The Assembly of the Republic therefore presents to the Canadian people, the Government of Canada, the provincial authorities of Alberta and the Portuguese residents there their solidarity and regret about this devastating fire and its consequences."
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u159	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote: No 78 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Solidarity with the Palestinian people ( BE). Each parliamentary group will have 2 minutes to speak. Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I shall very briefly present the vote we are proposing to this House. It is a happy coincidence or a significant coincidence that we will present this vote and vote on the day of the United Nations Secretary-General's visit to this Parliament. It is a matter of pointing out the 68 years of refugee status to which more than 711 000 people were sent in Palestine at the time, who were thrown out of their homes and their land, deprived of their homeland. Today, this people reaches more than 5 million people who are condemned to be in exile on their own land, stripped of land, of home, of fundamental rights. Colony policy, condemned by international law and, repeatedly, by the United Nations, is one of the essential mechanisms for perpetuating this condition. Nakba means disaster, and this disaster has not been a day, not a year ago, but a lifetime of successive generations of men and women in Palestine, whose houses are torn apart, whose families are torn apart, whose lives are divided and whose communities are divided by walls that separate them, whose ways are, day by day, intercepted by checkpoints that humiliate and deprive of essential rights. This is not a story of angels and demons, we know it, but it is a story with demons more, for years more, for us more, and we are proposing that this Assembly of the Republic express its solidarity with a people who are illegally deprived of fundamental rights and who express their solidarity with a just peace in the Middle East. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u161	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no conflict in Palestine, there is an occupation. And the occupation that is happening in Palestine — I repeat, it is happening — began in 1948. It was this year that this process was triggered that, still throughout the world, the Palestinian people, peace lovers and defenders of international law know and recognize as Nakba — the catastrophe. The Assembly of the Republic, for the first time in 2015, was present on an official visit to Palestine, with representatives of all parties, and we made contact and knowledge of an indescriptible, dramatic reality, of a people facing, fighting and suffering in the skin an illegal, illegitimate, violent occupation with men and women who more than 60 years later retain the keys to the homes from which they were expelled. We have made contact with men and women who continue to be expelled from their homes today. Mrs. Members in the first quarter of this year were destroyed, demolished by the occupying army of the State of Israel, more Palestinian houses than in all 2015. The occupation of Palestine is not exceeded to be remembered, it is continuing and worsening to be fought and denounced by all of us. It is our duty as defenders of international law: to demand compliance with United Nations resolutions, to demand respect for the right of a people to self-determination, freedom and independence. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u163	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, on the day this vote is submitted to the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic we have the coincidence of the presence of the Secretary-General of the United Nations in this House, which should remind us that, despite the direction of the PS, to which I will now go, it is important not to forget the framework in which the United Nations General Assembly decided in 1947 to create two states in the territory which previously corresponded to the British mandate. And on the day after the proclamation of the State of Israel, of its independence, Israel was invaded by all its neighbours, triggering a process that until today we have been unsuspecting, if we want, as a planet, to resolve, but a process that effectively had angels and demons on both sides, justices and injustices, people who have left their houses on both sides, people who have suffered the terrorism on both sides. That is why we cannot follow many of the recitals of this vote. We cannot follow the references to ethnic cleansing, because they seem to us truly inadequate to reality, we cannot follow the simplification of a complex issue involving the resolution of the refugee problem, the problem of the security of both States, the problem of the status of Jerusalem, the problem of how to combat terrorism, issues which have been facing the two sides for decades now, and which have created difficulties. however, although we do not follow these considerations, although we consider that the vote is unbalanced in its recitals, one thing is certain and that we all recognize: there should be, since 1947, two states in the territory that corresponds to the British mandate in Palestine and, indeed, there is only one. It is undeniable that the resolution of this vote, in calling for the recognition of the State of Palestine, corresponds to an aspiration of international law, corresponds to the resolution of the conflict based on two states, something which does not appear in the text and which could be emphasized there in another way. But because the position of the PS is clear, we support the existence of two states in peace, with safe borders, with the ability to reconcile both sides, we will, with our favourable vote, follow the vote that is presented by BE today. however, we must not fail to point out that the recitals and the manner in which they are presented do not deserve our follow-up and we hope that the very patent nearly 70 years of conflict will be overcome and that Palestinians and Israelis will finally be able to live in peace side by side. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u165	I give the floor to Mr Nuno Magalhães, the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS condemns any violation of human rights, whether committed against Palestinians or perpetrated against the people of Israel. We will therefore abstain from this vote presented by BE, which, in addition to considering us having clear inaccuracies, not even historical manipulations, forgets the essential, from the point of view of international law, which is reciprocity. More: it is completely omitted, it does not have a word of condemnation of the atrocities that have also been committed, and many, by the Palestinians against Israel, including terrorist acts perpetrated by Hamas or Hezbollah. The CDS recognizes and defends that Palestine and Israel must be two states that live in peace. The CDS recognizes the right of the Palestinian State, but it also vehemently defends the right to security, not even to say the right to life, of the Israeli people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u167	That is why, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of a solution within the framework of international law with the participation of the UNO. We want peace, we seek peace, but the first step towards that peace is to try to rewrite history. This is what this BE vote does and therefore we cannot follow it, voting in favour of it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u168	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Sérgio Azevedo.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to remind the House that we have recently taken decisions in Parliament to urge the European Union to promote, within the framework of respect for international law, the recognition of the State of Palestine. On this subject, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has always shown a very clear position, and has done so for some time now. But here we have to separate the wheat from the juicy. One thing is respect for the self-determination of peoples and for the just peaceful coexistence between peoples, another thing is the political-party instrumentation of the national Parliament, and that we cannot follow. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u170	I give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira for the Group of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens Ecological Party is associated with the vote of solidarity with the Palestinian people today being discussed because, in fact, we are very close to the date that worldwide the day of the catastrophe, the day of the mass expulsion of many Palestinians from their territories and their houses, after the proclamation of the State of Israel in 1948. With regard to this expulsion from their territories and their houses, because I joined the delegation of the Amizade Group of Portugal-Palestine, I remember the visit that was made last year to the occupied territories and I remember a monument that was a very large key, having then been explained to us that that key represented the hope of the Palestinian people, of all those who were expelled from their homes, who, despite the years they had spent, kept the house key in their pocket in the hope of returning one day. And so we also hope that one day they will come back and return to peace. We believe that international law must be respected and that the various resolutions that have already been taken by the United Nations should also be respected. Therefore, in this sense, we take advantage to express solidarity with the Palestinian people and repudiation for the violation of their rights, especially the right to have a homeland, and also to express support for all efforts to achieve peace in the region, which naturally results from the recognition of the State of Palestine. [[Congratulations from the members of the BE and the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u172	We shall vote on paragraph 78/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Solidarity with the Palestinian people ( BE). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the Deputies of PS Rosa Albernaz and João Soares and the CDS-PP João Rebelo and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of PS Ascension Simões.]] [[It is as follows: "The 15th of May marks all over the world Nakba, the Day of the Catastrophe, which recalls the mass expulsion of Palestinian citizens and families from their homes and their territory after the proclamation of the State of Israel in 1948. According to UN figures, more than 711 000 people, Palestinian Arabs, were forced into exodus, with more than 418 Arab villages being depopulated and virtually destroyed following the 1948 Israeli-Arab war. The status of refugees, then announced as temporary, has become terribly final. In fact, these large thousands of people and their descendants — in a number now estimated to have reached more than five million — remain deprived of their return to their homes and their territory, despite the successive deliberations against the United Nations, beginning with General Assembly Resolution 194, adopted on 11 December 1948, which has already pointed out the need for a fair agreement to allow the return of refugees and compensation for the losses and damage suffered by them. The Palestinians became exiled within their own homeland, stripped of land, home and rights. The policy of colonization has been one of the main mechanisms for perpetuating this situation, ignoring and violating the basic rules of international law and the persistent condemnations of the international community through successive deliberations, including the United Nations Security Council. For the Palestinian people, the catastrophe was not a day or a year. The catastrophe brought upon this people by the occupation of their territory, by the denial of their fundamental, collective and individual rights, has lasted for more than half a century. Sixty-eight years after ethnic cleansing carried out in Palestine, the reality of houses torn apart, of houses torn apart, of walls to divide communities, of paths intercepted by successive checkpoints that retain and humiliate, remains inconceivable, with the unacceptable complacency of an international community that refuses to act consistently in the defence of the application of international law and of a peace that respects the rights of all people without discrimination. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session: 1 — Expresses its solidarity with all the Palestinian people and their repudiation for the violation of their right to have a homeland and the violation of the fundamental rights of Palestinian men, women and children. 2 — Expresses its support for all efforts to create a just peace in the region that prioritizes the recognition of the State of Palestine and the scrupulously fulfilment of the right of all peoples to self-determination and to live in a context of peaceful relations.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u173	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u174	Mr President, it is only to note that the PS Parliamentary Group will deliver a vote statement on the vote that just took place.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u175	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim wants to use the word?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u176	Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u177	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Does Mr Nuno Magalhães intend to use the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u178	Yes, Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u179	It is also registered, Mr. We shall then move forward in the vote, beginning with the vote on draft resolution No 312 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the period of travel of the President of the Republic to Germany ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Time now to vote on a number of requests submitted by BE, the CFP, the Greens and the PS respectively, asking for the discharge to the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport, without voting for a period of 30 days, of the projects of lein. 98 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the supply of programme services in TDT, ensuring adequate technical conditions and price control ( BE ), 185 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensure universal access and broadcast of all public television service channels via Digital Terrestrial Television ( TDT ) ( PCP ), in conjunction with draft resolutions 282 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — improving the coverage and extension of the supply of programme services on Digital Terrestrial Television ( TDT ) ( Os Verdes ) and 298 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prepare for the extension of the supply of programme services on Digital Terrestrial Television ( PS ). I suppose they can be voted together. We're going to vote on the announced requests. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the general vote on Bill No 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Conditions of financial responsibility of the State in the provision of health care to the users of the Regional Health Service of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, by the National Health Service and the recognition of the principle of reciprocity ( ALRAA ). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We proceed to the vote on another set of requests submitted by the PCP, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens, PS, and PSD, respectively, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting for a period of 30 days on the drafts of lein. 136 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ( Legislative Initiative of Citizens ) ( PCP ), 167 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June regulating the Citizens'Legislative Initiative ( second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ) ( BE ), 188 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ( Citizens'Legislative Initiative ), simplifying the procedures and requirements provided for in the Act ( CDS-PP ) of the draft decision No 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes the establishment of a working group for the study and implementation of an electronic delivery mechanism for the legislative initiatives of citizens ( CDS-PP ), and of the projects of lein.o 208 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June to make the Legislative Initiative of Citizens ( The Greens ) accessible, 210 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June by reviewing the requirements and procedures for the delivery of legislative initiatives by citizens ( PS ), 212 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June, reducing by 20 % the number of signatures necessary for the submission of legislative initiatives by citizens ( PSD ) and 213 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 15 -A / 98 of 3 April approving the Organic Law of the Referendum Scheme, reducing by 20 % the number of signatures required for the presentation of popular referendum initiatives ( PSD ). Let's vote on the announced demands together. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution Nos 229 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to encourage the development of university sport ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 309 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government Public Policies for Supporting University Sport ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we will now vote on four requests by the PS, the PAN, the BE, and the PSD, respectively, requesting the discharge, without a vote, for the 30-day period, to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees of the projects of lein. 164 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by establishing a legal status of animals ( BE ), 171 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Civil Code recognizing animals as sensitive beings ( PAN), 227 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by assigning a Legal Statute to Animals ( BE ) and 224 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Alter the Legal Statute for Animals in the Civil Code ( PSD ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we now proceed to the vote of three requests submitted by the PAN, PS and BE respectively, requesting the discharge, without a vote, for the 30-day period, to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees of the projects of lein. 173 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the animal sanctions regime ( amends the Penal Code ) ( PAN ), 209 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amended thirty-seventh to the Criminal Code by revising the penal system for pets ( PS ) and 228 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Review the sanctions regime applicable to crimes against animals ( BE ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 228 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of structured support for informal caregivers as well as the creation of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver ( CDS-PP ). The PS calls for the vote in three groups. First, we shall vote on points 4, 5, 6, 7 and 9, then points 1 and 2 and 8 and then point 3. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on points 4, 5, 6, 7 and 9. [[When put to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens, the NAP and the withdrawal of BE were adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens, the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on points 1, 2 and 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u180	Mr President, there must be a separation in the vote of these three points, i.e. points 1 and 2 may be voted together but point 8 must be voted separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u181	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, no one has told us that it would be so, but we shall then vote on points 1 and 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on point 8. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the PCP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the Greens' abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the BE and abstentions of the PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 235 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the regulation of the profession of gerontologist ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now turn to the vote on draft resolution No 304 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by strengthening support for informal caregivers ( CFP ). Mrs. Members, the PSD requested that we vote separately on paragraph 5, the PS requested the separate vote of paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 7 and then of paragraphs 4 and 6 together. We shall therefore have three votes, starting with the vote on paragraph 5. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the vote on paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 7. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on paragraphs 4 and 6. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 306 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 308 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to support IT Caregivers and the approval of their Statute ( PSD ). Mrs. Members, the PS calls for the vote in three groups: first points 1, 2 (a ) and 2 (d) ; then points 2 (b ), 2 (e ), 3, 4 and 6 ; and then the remaining points. Let us vote on points 1, 2 (a ) and 2 (d). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on points 2 (b), 2 (c ), 3, 4 and 6.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u182	Mr President, these various points must be separated, because there are different votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u183	All of them?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u184	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u185	We shall therefore vote on point 2.b ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP, votes against the PS and the PCP and abstentions of BE and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2 ( c ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the PS, the PCP and the Greens and the Abstaining of BE.]] We shall vote on point 4. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 6. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PS and the abstention from BE.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on the remaining points of draft resolution No 308 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions of the PS and BE were adopted.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 310 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Creates the Statute of the Informal Caregiver ( BE ). The PS calls for the vote on the various separate points. We shall therefore vote firstly on points 1.1 and 1.3. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on points 1.4 and 1.5. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the remaining points of draft resolution No 310/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention were adopted.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 311 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the number of public beds in the national integrated continuous care network and the national palliative care network ( BE ). The PSD calls for a separate vote on point 2, which we shall now vote on. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on the remaining points. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u186	Mr. Miguel Santos, did you ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u187	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will send a statement of vote to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u188	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 229 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends and partially repeals Decree-Law No 154 / 2013 of 5 November establishing the system for the monitoring of investment projects, eliminating the figure of projects of potential national interest ( PIN) ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions by the Members of PS Helena Roseta and Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We proceed to the vote on Bill No 223 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — prohibits the use of the territory included in the RN and RN to real estate projects of potential national interest projects ( PINs ) which do not meet the criteria and purposes of their classification ( CFPs ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions by the Members of PS Helena Roseta and Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u189	Mr President, I would like to make an oral statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u190	Mrs. Mr President, oral explanations of vote must be made at the end of all the votes. Mrs. Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u191	Mr President, I will make a statement of vote on the last two drafts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u192	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Luís Vilhena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u193	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will make a statement of vote on the last two drafts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u194	Be registered, Your Honor. Mrs. Members, there was a request from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PCP to download the draft lein. 157 / XIII ( 1 ) to the Commission without a vote. ( a ) — Transparency of holders of political positions and high public positions ( BE ), 160 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Fight unjustified enrichment ( BE), 218 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Tenth amendment to the Statute of Deputies adopted by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( PSD ) and 219 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — No amendment to the Legal Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and High Public Charges, approved by Law No 64 / 93 of 26 August ( PSD ), 220 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ( Public Control of the Wealth of Political Charge Holders ( PSD ), 221 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Unjustified enrichment ( thirty-fifth amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March, fourth amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July, and sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ) ( PCP ), 225 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulates the activity of professional representation of interests ( Lobbying ) ( CDS-PP ) and 226 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Strengthen transparency in the exercise of political and high-level positions ( CDS-PP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the Commission's application without a vote of these diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u195	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u196	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u197	Mr President, it had already been agreed at the Leaders Conference that these diplomas would be lowered to the Commission without a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u198	In any case, on a matter of caution, we shall vote on the application for discharge to the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions without a vote of the diplomas I have just identified. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote on the first supplementary budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2016. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 313 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Support services of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Annual Report of the DNA Profile Database Supervisory Board - 2015. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u199	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u200	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u201	Mr. President, it is only to inform, for the purposes of registering interests, that I am a member of the Supervisory Board of the DNA Profile Database.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u202	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Health Committee on the drafts of lein. 6 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June extending the scope of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques ( PS ), 29 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures equal rights in access to assisted medical procreation techniques by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June ( PAN ), 36 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensure the access of all women to assisted drug procreation ( LDCs) and regulates access to replacement pregnancy by making the second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September and 51 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the eligibility conditions and the whole of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June ( The Greens ). As you know, the authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of this text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 16 PSD (Angela Guerra, António Lima Costa, Berta Cabral, Duarte Filipe Marques, Emília Cerqueira, Emídio Guerreiro, Fátima Ramos, Firmino Pereira, Jorge Moreira da Silva, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Pedro Pinto, Rubina Berardo, Sergio Azevedo, Teresa Leal Coelho and Teresa Morais), votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions against 3 PSD deputies (Joana Barata Lopes, Laura Magalhães and Margarida Mano).]] We shall continue with the vote on the request by the CDS-PP for the fuller vote in the speciality of Article 4 ( 3 ). that of the replacement text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on Article 4 ( 3 ). the replacement text already identified. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 16 PSD (Angela Guerra, António Lima Costa, Berta Cabral, Duarte Filipe Marques, Emília Cerqueira, Emídio Guerreiro, Fátima Ramos, Firmino Pereira, Jorge Moreira da Silva, Margarida Balseiro Lopes, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Pedro Pinto, Rubina Berardo, Sergio Azevedo, Teresa Leal Coelho and Teresa Morais), votes against PSD and CDS-PP and abstentions of 3 PSD (Joana Barata Lopes and Margarida Mano) and 3 MPs (João Pinho de Almeida, João Rebelo and Teresa Caeiro).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u203	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u204	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u205	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u206	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held within the Commission. Mr Luís Montenegro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u207	Mr President, I believe that we cannot vote in accordance with the terms in which the Bureau has just stated, but we can do it together, i.e. by voting on all the articles in the specialty, since in the PSD Parliamentary Group, the vote is not the same as in the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u208	So, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on the remaining articles of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 16 PSD Members (Angela Guerra, Antonio Lima Costa, Berta Cabral, Duarte Filipe Marques, Emília Cerqueira, Emídio Guerreiro, Fátima Ramos, Firmino Pereira, Jorge Moreira da Silva, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Pedro Pinto, Rubina Berardo, Sergio Azevedo, Teresa Leal Coelho and Teresa Morais), votes against PSD and CDS-PP and abstentions from 3 PSD Members (Joana Barata Lopes, Laura Magalhães and Margarida Mano).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u209	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u210	Mrs. Margarida Mano, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u211	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u212	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the overall final vote on this replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 16 PSD (Angela Guerra, António Lima Costa, Berta Cabral, Duarte Filipe Marques, Emília Cerqueira, Emídio Guerreiro, Fátima Ramos, Firmino Pereira, Jorge Moreira da Silva, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Pedro Pinto, Rubina Berardo, Sergio Azevedo, Teresa Leal Coelho and Teresa Morais), votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions against 3 PSD deputies (Joana Barata Lopes, Laura Magalhães and Margarida Mano).]] [[P.S., BE, PCP, The Greens and PSD Deputies Paula Teixeira da Cruz and Teresa Leal Coelho, stand up.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 183 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — It regulates the access to pregnancy of substitution in cases of absence of the uterus, injury or disease of this organ which impedes pregnancy in an absolute and definitive way by the second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September ( BE) ( text replaced by the author ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens, the PAN and 24 PSD Members (Alvaro Batista, Ángela Guerra, Antonio Costa Silva, Antonio Leitão Amaro, António Lima Costa, Berta Cabral, Carlos Abreu Amorim, Duarte Filipe Marques, Emília Cerqueira, Fátima Ramos, Firmino Pereira, Jorge Moreira da Silva, Luís Vales, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Margarida Mano, Miguel Santos, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Pedro Coelho, Pedro Pinto, Regina Bastos, Rubina Berardo, Sara Madruga da Costa, Sergio Azevedo and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against the PSS, CDS-PP, the PCP and 2 PS (Isabel Santos and Renato Apiao) and abstentions from 3 PSD (Emídio Guereiro and Joana Maga Maga Maga Magares.ores.]] [[PSP, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PSD Members Paula Teixeira da Cruz and Teresa Leal Coelho.]] We shall vote together in the speciality and in the overall final vote, draft law No 183 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — It regulates the access to pregnancy of replacement in cases of absence of the uterus, injury or disease of this organ which impedes pregnancy in an absolute and definitive way by the second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens, the PAN and 24 PSD Members (Alvaro Batista, Ángela Guerra, Antonio Costa Silva, Antonio Leitão Amaro, António Lima Costa, Berta Cabral, Carlos Abreu Amorim, Duarte Filipe Marques, Emília Cerqueira, Fátima Ramos, Firmino Pereira, Jorge Moreira da Silva, Luís Vales, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Margarida Mano, Miguel Santos, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Pedro Coelho, Pedro Pinto, Regina Bastos, Rubina Berardo, Sara Madruga da Costa, Sergio Azevedo and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against the PSS, CDS-PP, the PCP and 2 PS (Isabel Santos and Renato Apiao) and abstentions from 3 PSD (Emídio Guereiro and Joana Maga Maga Maga Magares.ores.]] [[PSP, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PSD Members Paula Teixeira da Cruz and Teresa Leal Coelho.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u213	Mrs Paula Santos asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u214	Mr President, to inform only that the PCP Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote on draft law No 183 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and on the vote on the previous replacement text.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u215	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u216	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u217	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u218	To announce that I will present a declaration of vote on draft law No 183 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u219	There are several requests for speech, I believe, to announce the submission of explanations of vote. Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u220	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the vote we have made on Bill No 183 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u221	Mrs. Isabel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u222	It is for the same purpose, Mr President, to say that we will present a statement of vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u223	Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u224	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present two explanations of vote, one related to the vote on the replacement text and the other on the vote on the last bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u225	Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u226	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u227	Mrs Inês Domingos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u228	Mr President, it is also to present a statement of vote on the vote on the replacement text and also on the vote on the last bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u229	Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u230	Mr President, that is to say that I will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u231	Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u232	Mr President, it is also to say that I will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u233	It's all recorded, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. We shall proceed to the adoption of paragraphs 41 to 49 of the Journal for the plenary meetings of 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 22, 23, 30 and 31 March 2016. There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. The request for a vote requested by Mr Trigo Pereira cannot be accepted because the oral statements are made during the period when the final global votes are taken. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u234	Mr President, in that case I shall make a written statement of vote. It was a step aside from me.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-13.u235	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The next meeting will take place on Wednesday, 19th, at 3 p.m., and on the agenda is the general assessment of Bill No 232 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prohibits the application of products containing glyphosate in urban areas, leisure areas and channels of communication ( BE) with any vote at the end of the debate. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 55 minutes.]]
