ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u1	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I believe that the galleries have already been opened to the public, in particular the galleries where our board presidents will be present, which I am now taking advantage of to greet. Since there is no record to read, we will enter directly into the agenda, which has as its first point the evocation of the centenary of Law No 621 of 23 June 1916, which establishes the parish in Portugal. I welcome, again, the presidents of the board present in the galleries. [[General applause, stand up.]] Today we mark the 100 years of the parish. As you know, the municipalist ideal inspired the young Portuguese Republic and the parish was a creation of then, but only 40 years ago the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic consecrated the true democratic local power. from this point of view, regional autonomy, local autonomy were great innovations, institutional achievements of democracy, and many social achievements of the last 40 years are also due to these institutions. I have already had occasion to mention that, from sanitation to infrastructure, but also to housing, to cultural supply, to sports supply, to social support, all have gradually been translated into the social rights enshrined in the Constitution. The Confederal Boards played their role here, growing properly in skills and qualifications and, 100 years later, I think that the re-approximation of citizens to politics can only go through the policy that is closest to citizens, local politics and their institutions. I would even say that the fregetal councils are the most democratic of the democratic institutions of our democratic system. [[General applause.]] in this sense, this proximity democracy can only pass without the contribution of the parish and the ANAFRE (National Association of Freguesias ), whose leaders greet the person of its President, here present. I congratulate you and wish you the greatest success, not for the next 100 years, but for the next few decades. [[General applause.]] Mrs. Members, we now have a period of speeches from the various parliamentary groups, and on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today, 100 years have passed since the civil parishes officially called themselves Fregues. It was the recognition of the added value that constituted, and still today, the proximity of the exercise of power to the citizens, the proximity to the daily experiences, the sharing of the more concrete and specific problems and concerns of each place and region. It was the official consecration of the meritorious work that had been developed by civil parishes, work to which our authorships have been able to carry on with recognized excellence and extreme dedication. It is up to us today to publicly acknowledge and praise 100 years of a remarkable exercise of power undertaken by the presidents of the parish board, which are the golden face of political power in Portugal. All without exception, state, political parties, Portuguese, all of us, we feel grateful and proud for the dedication of our French authorities, ordinary citizens who give so much of themselves receiving so little. It is in this sense, and within this celebration in the House of Democracy, that we exalt the efforts of these representatives of the people who so often sacrifice their family and professional life for a greater common good: their citizens and their parishioners. The exercise of its functions is therefore a daily struggle which also has the important contribution of the National Association of Fregues. Everyone does well in this effort and dedication. [[PSD, CDS-PP and some PS Members applauded.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the capacity to act on behalf of their population in such broad areas as social support, culture, sport, education, health, the environment or quality of life, local authorities must be endowed with their own competences and the corresponding financial resources to better comply with the principle of subsidiarity and can continue to fulfil fully the functions that citizens require. The world of our day, with the social, economic, technological and environmental evolution to which we witness, imposes a new vision of the country, a global vision with local action, which promotes the enhancement of the territory and guarantees its integral and cohesive development. The world has changed and the parish remains firm in the defense of the populations, although, as is normal and expectable, accompanying this change.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u3	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u4	It is therefore important to continue the process initiated by the previous government and move forward with an effective decentralization of competences, so that, by decentralising the state in the municipalities and municipalities in the parish, we can have a fruitful allocation of competences and also, as it can be, of own resources in the parish councils. That's why it's time...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u5	It is time to try to finish your speech, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u6	... that we have a different view and for this we have all, as indissociable partners of the State — and I have already finished, Mr President — as it has happened 100 years ago, with the precious and indispensable action of our authorships who represent us in all the parishes covering this country, a land that we have rightly inherited and that we have an obligation to lead towards a future that is desirable and conditioned with the history of Portugal. [[PSD, CDS-PP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have to try to fulfill our assigned times. Mr. Francisco Rocha has the palace.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There are evocations that are self-imposed, so obvious is their merit, their importance, their role in the construction of our country. The evocation of the centenary of the passage from civil parishes to parish churches is one of these examples, so it is imperative to emphasize the decision of the Presidency of the Assembly of the Republic to symbolise this efemeric in the House of Democracy. This gesture also means the recognition of this House of the crucial role of local power and of the parish within the framework of our democratic regime and its superlative capacity to solve concrete problems. in the person of the president of the board of directors of ANAFRE, Pedro Cegonho, we warmly greet all the autarchs, with particular emphasis to those present today in the galleries and, fortunately, also in the Hemicycle,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... not yet forgetting all those who, no longer performing these functions, had the opportunity to experience in the past, also recalling the memory of all those who through the parish served Portugal and who, unfortunately, are no longer among us. We thank everyone very much for their unquestionable contribution to the defence, affirmation, development and representation of their communities, based on a democratic, solidarity, close, inclusive and participatory political practice. during the last 100 years only the designation of fregueia remained unchanged. in fact, its scope, its competences and its assignments have evolved over time, with special incidence in the last 40 years, promoting numerous activities and assignments that clearly exceed its formal scope. Today, the parish is the institutional space in which the exercise of representative democracy and the experience of participatory democracy is better combined. We recall that it was this authentic body that received the first candidatures of independent citizens, but it is also the place where the existence and operation of several'managements' can best be verified, some of them quite improbable, taking account of the party composition of many executives of the parish, but not at least belliscated or injured by political and democratic legitimacy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the concept of the autonomy of local power is enshrined in the Constitution and the European Charter of Local Self-Government, whose action takes place in the context of proximity. The local power, the parish, does not hide behind opaque bureaucratic curtains, is not shielded by an endless chain of command between the elector and the elector. The local power, the parish is there; it's nearby, it's accessible, it's close, it's here. Closer scrutiny, demands and accountability, and precisely because scrutiny, demands and responsibility, proximity is generating the most valuable good in democracy and politics: trust. It is on behalf of these unique features of the parish — proximity and trust — that we should evaluate the process of extinction and fusion of the parish within the framework of a genuine administrative reform and an agenda for decentralisation. But this time with responsibility and weighting, taking into account the good examples of the Lisbon reform, deepening the dialogue between the Government and the associations representing the parish and the municipalities and respecting the principle of local autonomy. These are the challenges facing the parish in the future: to preserve its distinctive characteristics, to deepen its autonomy and to add new competences and assignments. That's what we want it to happen. Long live the ferries! Long live local power! Long live Portugal! [[PS, PSD, BE and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u9	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my compliments to all. I also welcome the President of ANAFRE and his leadership here present, and, in his own name, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I extend cordial greetings to all and all the authorships of the parish scattered by the national territory. Today we are recalling the 100 years of Law No. 621 of June 23, 1916, which instituted the parish in our country, when civil parishes came to be officially called Fregues. The Left Block welcomes this initiative of the Assembly of the Republic, which was also associated with ANAFRE. The local democratic power was the subject of particular attention by the workers of the Republic, despite the vicissitudes and obstacles that the new republican regime faced. In fact, the new regime has implemented and improved the law, now in a secular position, local entities close to a religious entity. Such a desire — the institution of parish churches, before parishes, was part of a more comprehensive process of the separation of the Church and the State, and Law No. 621 was even an bold, progressive and advanced law for the time when it stipulated the use of the referendum for the creation of the parish. A century has passed, it causes real strangers when there are still those who do not accept this noble instrument of democracy at the service of local populations. The parish churches, formerly, have very deep roots and dive into the memory of the centuries of the Portuguese State. With its own and very strong identities, its residents faced abuses from other entities and created bonds of affirmation and collective and democratic assistance It was only with the April Revolution and with the approval of the new Constitution that the autonomy of local power became a reality, becoming the Fregues, according to Mr. President of ANAFRE's words, « an unmistakable reference that promotes territorial cohesion(...), constitute one of the main foundations of the democratic regime and are heritage of the Portuguese people. Do not keep on seeking. ” Despite their increasingly important role in supporting the population, the parish has not obtained adequate strengthening of the legal powers or the necessary financial resources. It was during the reign of the former PSD Government / CDS, with the imposition of Law No. 11 -A / 2013, that the democratic local power suffered one of the greatest attacks, the awakening of autarchs and populations, leading to the extinction of more than 1 thousand Fregues. The so-called « autarchical reform» did not bring savings to the state, even representing, in several situations, charges added to the parish. The pretext of the Troika Memorandum, the extinction / aggregation of freguesis was part of a more comprehensive process of state reconfiguration, centralization of services and reduction of workers. Thousands of indigenous voters have been eliminated, there is a greater gap between voters and voters, the difficulties have worsened as regards the response to the needs of the people and the role of the parish in the organisation of the local power has been deverted. The Left Block vehemently opposed the «relvas law » of extinction of freguesas, and opposed the figure of the local referendum, which did not deserve the approval of other political forces. We welcome the proposals of this new government for the reversal of the parish, where there is discontent and opposition from the authorities and populations. A new cycle of hope has thus been opened also with regard to local power and, more specifically, with regard to the replacement of fragesias. We continue to believe that all the conditions are created and that it is still possible to move forward with the process of replacement of the parish in the course of the current year, before 2017, when new elections will take place,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u11	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u12	...to be restored as soon as possible to the justice and will of the people. The Left Block gave today, in the Assembly of the Republic, in the centenary of the institution of the parish, a bill of replacement of the parish, admitting the use of the local referendum, as happened 100 years ago. We hope that the same will be approved by this House. [[Congratulations from the BE, the PS, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u13	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the President of the National Association of Freguesias, as well as the joint presidents present here and all who cannot be here, and to say that this commemoration is a way to say: « Thank you very much to all for the dedication to the causes of Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[General applause.]] The parish councils, as has already been said, having evoked some historical arguments, have always resisted everything, have always been the most resilient organ of sovereignty of democracy, from parishes to parish councils, to municipal councils, in the New State. That is why I would say that the best tribute we can pay today and here to the parish councils — and allow me to be a little more ambitious than Mr President — is that we hope that they will stand not only for a few decades but for more than 100 years, just as they trust their populations. The CDS has always considered, and has always recognized, that the mission of the parish boards was the most important mission of democracy. In many territories, the parish board is the only representative of the State, it is the one that faces the problems of the populations, usually the most deprived. The junta presidents are, for us, the real heroes of democracy. The board presidents are friends, advisors, cultural dynamizers, economic dynamizers, entrepreneurs, cultural agents, heritage healers. That is, they are kind of « do everything», always in anonymity and never in search of the holofotes of immediacy. As has been said here, they even generate unthinkable partnerships in the Portuguese political spectrum for a simple reason: they always put the interests of their populations before their interests. And that's how it should be, that's how I and the CDS understand it should be. That is the example of the exercise of politics. A simple word: service. That's what joint presidents do in the country. The CDS therefore trusts the parish and we intend to overcome the challenges of the future. Only those who do not visit or do not walk through their villages, through their romaria, through their fairs, through their markets, through their play spaces are not able to evaluate the huge qualitative leap that has taken place in the parish and throughout the national territory. Obviously there's still a lot to do. There are deficiencies, there are population deficits, there are critical mass deficits, there are deficits in economic and social relations, but there is also a lot of opportunity. And it is these spaces of opportunity that it is important to face up to, grasp and protect—in their human resources, in their heritage, in natural resources that are of national interest, whether in forests, whether in agriculture or even in their heritage. I shall finish by saying, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's commemoration is a sign of gratitude, but it is also a sign of hope that we, when we can trust, trust and expect much from the joints and presidents of the parish of Portugal. Thank you all very much. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP, PSD and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u15	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : We have signed the centenary of Law No 621 of 1916, which abolished the designation of civil parish and finally assumed the designation of parish and council of parish, adopted a framework of tasks and competences and established the mechanisms for the election of the bodies of parish. With the April Revolution and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic of 1976, the Frequencies acquired the true status of local authorities with autonomy, competences, financial means, framework of own personnel and democratically elected bodies. Freguesia are the administrative organization of the State closest to the population, where representative and participatory democracy gains a unique dimension. We recognize the work, action and intervention of the parish. There is no doubt that in Portugal in April the parish was, and are responsible for the significant improvement of the quality of life of their populations and local development. We therefore welcome the leaders of ANAFRE and all the elected representatives of the parish, especially those present here. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We note this date and do this celebration by not forgetting the numerous difficulties and obstacles to which the parish was subjected in recent years, namely an unacceptable interference by the previous Government, the disrespect for its autonomy framework, the reduction of its intervention capacity, the reduction of its financing, and the failure to comply with constitutional provisions. Against the will of the peoples and the local bodies, they extinguished more than 1 thousand parishioners, impoverishing the democratic regime and reducing political representativeness and participation. The dignification and valorization of the fregueses does not change them into mere executional structures dependent on the central administration, nor social policy executors and in the adoption of care practices and much less become subdivisions of the municipalities. Each power has its own nature, organs and characteristics, so its tasks and competences must be compatible with the level of proximity and the exercise of appropriate functions in the face of community life. The challenges for the future require the deepening of constitutional principles, the defence of democratic local power, the strengthening of the means for the exercise of its tasks and competences and the promotion of democracy in its many dimensions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Honoring commitments made, the CFP Parliamentary Group has already delivered and scheduled for the next 30th day a draft law on the replacement of the fragesias, understanding that this is the appropriate time for the Assembly of the Republic, in terms of its competence, to hold this debate which we intend to be as broad as possible and with the contribution of all those who want to give it so that the fragesias are returned to the next electoral period of the Republic, and in respect of the commitments made with the people. Populations and local bodies should be respected. Frequencies should be returned to their populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u18	We hope that, in the Assembly of the Republic, everyone will contribute to this. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u19	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me first of all welcome ANAFRE and, above all, the joint presidents from all over the country, particularly those who are here with us today to accompany the work. Today we mark the hundredth anniversary of the law that instituted the parish in Portugal. A law, by which civil parishes became known as 'Frequois' and the parish board became 'Frequois Council'. Thus, the difference between the civil structure — the parish — and the ecclesiastical structure — was concluded. But it was necessary to wait for the 74th Revolution and for the 76th Constitution to take on the important work that they are carrying out today with the people and it was also the 76th Constitution that attributed the democratic nature to the parish. Thus, in accordance with our Constitution, the parish is an integral part of the democratic organization of the State. over time, the parishes were developing their important work with people, with voters, as a first step towards power, responding to the needs and concerns of citizens but also contributing to the development of the country, to national cohesion and to democratization in the access of populations to public equipment. But despite the importance that the parishes represent for our democracy and for the people, a century after their institution, a government, the PSD and the CDS, it is recalled, decides to lead a fierce attack on the parish and the local democratic power. in fact, the previous government, the PSD and the CDS, motivated by their difficulties in living with our democracy and with local power, would impose what they called « administrative reform », but which became known as the « process of extinction of freguesas ». With serious damage to national cohesion, to the loss of local identity, to the worsening of inequalities between citizens in access to equipment and to the impoverishment of democracy, the previous government continued its purpose. Expressing a complete disregard for the will of the peoples and their local organs, which, during the process, spoke out against the aggregation of their fregueses, the previous government, in a seated state, brought about the collective extinction of more than 1 thousand of fregueses throughout the country. By drag, the PSD and the CDS have removed from our democracy about 20,000 people elected by the parish and with this process has ended up losing proximity, one of the pillars in which the structure of the local power is based. Thus, on the day when we refer to the hundredth anniversary of the law which has established the fries in our country, it is time to remember the need to proceed, urgently, not only to the replacement of the fries extinguished by the previous government — the Government of the PSD and the CDS, it is recalled — but also to restore the legal regime for the creation of fries prior to the so-called 'administrative reorganization' of the former Government, because the Government of the PSD and the CDS, in this process, has also just inhibited this House from creating any friesty. These two commitments are, in our view, the best way to evoke the centenary of the institution of parish in our country. Long live the democratic local power! [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, BE, PCP, PAN and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u21	On behalf of the PAN, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u22	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr President of ANAFRE, Autarcas: Interpreting the will of the citizens and leading the changes that the new times require is undoubtedly a reflection worthy of a hundred years of local power. Many of the subjects and causes of political parties are completely out of the public's interests. If we stop to look at most public petitions we check why the divorce between the traditional political world and the interests of the citizens. We begin to envision a desire for participation through the significant increase in petitions that begin to enter all levels of local and national administration and believe that this trend may, in time, develop a more inclusive participatory democracy model in the traditional competences of local executives, which will, as a logical reaction, have an evolution of representative democracy with the development of a new sense of responsibility on the part of the parties. It is necessary to continue to reflect on decentralising policies at all levels. To the National Association of Freguesias the NAP shows gratitude, wishes to continue the excellent work it has done and leaves vows of success for this hundredth anniversary that now begins. [[PSD, PS, BE and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u23	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr Deputy Minister Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A very special greeting at this meeting of the Assembly of the Republic, to Dr. Pedro Cegonho, President of ANAFRE, to all members of the Governing Council and to the presence of so significant motorways of Freguesia, which makes today the Assembly of the Republic almost in a large assembly of Fregesia. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] Today we celebrate 100 years of Law No. 621, of June 23, 1916, the law that, definitely empowering the parishes, established the current model of assembly of parish, separating them from the previous link to the parish structure, as a structure of autonomous governance within the framework of the state structure. We do so by greeting what is a dimension of proximity governance, those in so many places who are the only voice of the state among the citizens, but we do so in the year in which we also point out 40 years of the democratic local power. We have pointed out for 40 years that this unique form of administrative organization, the parish, a model so Portuguese that it does not have parallelism within the framework of the European administrative organisation, has been affirmed as a unique form of participatory democracy. It is possible to have, as we have today, about 40 000 citizens who, because of the trust of those closest to them, exercise their mandate in the assemblies of freghesia, in the councils of freghesia, on the basis of the democratic confidence of those who live with them and who, with them, monitor the exercise of their mandate on a daily basis, evaluate their performance. That is why it is time to affirm the priority to reform the State, its decentralizing dimension. A democratic reform of the State, with a commitment to local autonomy, subsidiarity and democratic decentralization of the Public Administration, as provided for in Article 6. that of the Constitution, is an essential element of this transformation, based on the confidence that the authorities, but above all, the parish, have shown to deserve over these 40 years, affirming a broader framework of competences, differentiating competences according to the nature of the authorities, distinguishing what are the specific requirements of the parish in urban area from that which is the unique role played by the parish in rural space, also establishing the new framework of the relationship between the parish and municipalities, believing that what has been done on the basis of competence delegations should be structured as something of permanent competence, as something that, at the local level and in this dimension of proximity, can be done in a framework that today does not have to be developed municipalities. That is why these 40 years of democratic local power and these 100 years of the current model of a parish board must be marked by looking at the future and looking at a framework for reformulation of competences, enlargement of the financial framework and the definition of clear and objective criteria, as was done in 1916, for the territorial reorganization of the parish based on the evaluation of its performance and on what are its future challenges and certainly innovative, for those we know over these 100 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u25	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u26	in dialogue with ANAFRE, in dialogue with the parish, in affirming the subsidiarity of local autonomy, we will certainly value this new phase, this new time, this new challenge of consolidation of local democratic power. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u27	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the first item on today's agenda, the evocation of the centenary of Law No 621 of 23 June 1916, which establishes the parish in Portugal. I would once again like to greet all the local representatives present here, especially the chairmen of the parish board and the leadership of ANAFRE. Thank you very much for your presence. [[General applause standing.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the debate on appeal No 6 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — On health policies ( CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u28	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u29	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u30	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u31	If it is about the conduct of the works, we are always available. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u32	Mr President, as you know, next week, next Tuesday, there will be a European Council, which is extremely important for Europe, for the future of the European Union, but also with obvious consequences for Portugal. This European Council will take place at a time when the referendum, which we all know and on which we have all spoken, is being voted on in England by the post-Spanish elections and until the possibility of the application of sanctions to Portugal is discussed. As Mr President knows today at the Conference of Leaders, the Democratic Social Party has raised the question of not being scheduled for the preparatory debate, which is of law, moreover, on the European Council, with the Prime Minister, and it is up to the Government to proceed with this agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u33	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u34	in this Conference of Leaders, we have made ourselves available, Mr President, to exclude our agenda for tomorrow, with the loss of the Democratic Social Party, so that this debate could take place. We have been informed, at the end of the Conference of Leaders, that this debate would not take place because Mr. Prime Minister would have no agenda. Now, Mr President, faced with public news that Mr. Prime Minister will participate today at the festivities of Saint John in Porto, which, moreover, I would like to welcome and regret not to be able to participate, in Braga, where I am of course, by virtue of parliamentary work, the PSD Parliamentary Group cannot believe, and I think that you cannot accept, that this is the reason for Mr. Prime Minister not to participate in a debate on the European Council, which is of fundamental importance and which, as I said earlier, comes from the law. Thus, Mr President, what the PSD Parliamentary Group wants to ask you, since the Government is present, is that the Government today informs the House and the Portuguese on the agenda grounds which prevent the Prime Minister from being able to promote the preparatory debate of the European Council in the Assembly of the Republic with those representing the Portuguese citizens. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u35	Mr President, this was an inquiry not on the conduct of today's work but on possible future conduct of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u36	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u37	Mr Secretary of State, I give you the floor to answer this question in the first stage.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I just want to inform the House and Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares that the agendar is not the government, it is the Conference of Leaders. And the truth is that none of us, at the penultimate Conference of Leaders, referred to the preparatory debate of the European Council. Therefore, the request of the PSD Parliamentary Group was made at today's Leaders Conference; of course, the Prime Minister's agenda has been closed for a long time and we have not been able to change it one day for another. The preparatory debate of the European Council is not currently scheduled because it has not been scheduled at the Leaders Conference. There's no other reason. So far this Government has participated in all the preparatory debates of the European Council. This debate has not been marked, it has not been scheduled and that is why. We are available to try and get Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs to be present on behalf of... [[Try?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u39	I have not yet received a reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to see if you have any agenda to be able to participate in the debate tomorrow. Now, the truth is we're marking... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry, but the ladies. Members must also learn to listen. Let's make an effort to make sure that Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs can... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u40	Mrs. Members, I ask you to let Mr State Secretary explain the position of the Government. Please continue, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u41	The gentlemen. Members may not like the explanation, but this is this: point one, no preparatory debate of the European Council has been scheduled. The question has been raised today, it is for tomorrow and we cannot change the Prime Minister's agenda by tomorrow. We can make an effort so that Mr Foreign Minister can do this debate, and that is what we are doing right now. We still have no answer because the question has been put today and we are therefore looking at whether we can get the agenda for the Minister for Foreign Affairs to be able to hold the debate tomorrow, but with the Prime Minister it is not possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u42	Excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u43	Mr Hugo Soares, we will not now enter a pung-pong of appeals, all the more doubting that any of these interventions would be an appeal to the Bureau. I would like to stress what I have underlined today at the meeting, that indeed these preparatory debates of the European Council are provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, are planned and have been done, and I regret that this debate has not been marked. I understand that all the agendas have been completed, but from the moment that there was the availability of a party to open up an agenda, or at least from it, in time, I think that the government should make every effort to match this initiative of the greater opposition party. Please, Mr Hugo Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u44	Mr President, I begin with your last part: this is not an initiative of the largest opposition party, it is a legal imperative, and it is up to Mr President, as the ultimate guarantor of compliance with the law and debates in the Assembly of the Republic, to ensure that this debate can happen. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, today the PSD has just wondered what should be obvious at the Conference of Leaders, which was the government — who has the agenda of the European Councils and who has failed today at the Conference of Leaders — had the initiative to have called for this debate to be scheduled in strict compliance with the law. I am very sorry to you, Mr President, but I must say that the PSD Parliamentary Group does not accept this Government's behaviour which, before a highly important European Council, does not want to make the preparatory debate in this House with the elected Members of the Assembly of the Republic, because the Prime Minister has no agenda, is distracted and prefers to go to parties and festivities. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u45	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, I confirm that what is normal at the Leader Conferences, when there are European Councils, is that it is the government itself to request the agendas. [[PSD protests.]] That did not happen, perhaps because it was also unknown when this European Council was to take place. But, from the moment it is marked, I think, and I insist again, that the Government must make every effort to comply with the will of the Democratic Social Party and be present.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u47	And yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u48	The schedule for tomorrow is from the PSD, so I am referring to the « will ». Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u49	Mr President, we have schedules scheduled until the next day 7 almost a month and a half ago, everything is busy, and the availability of the PSD has been demonstrated today. [[PSD protests.]] We are making an effort to get the debate to happen. But I remember that the scheduling of all parliamentary work until July 7 was done and closed almost a month and half ago, and the availability of the PSD was demonstrated today. We are now making this effort for tomorrow, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u50	In any case, I am calling again for this effort to be made with all political will so that this debate can be made possible. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Nuno Magalhães also spoke for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u51	Mr President, for the same purpose, I would like to say that we follow Mr President's call. Let's go to the parties: the issue has been raised today, it is still the compliance of the law and not the scheduling of the PSD, CDS-PP, PS, BE, or PCP. This is about compliance with the law. Eventually we can even understand the situation, given that we are on the eve, if there is an impediment from the Prime Minister that is real, because, Mr President, the law refers to "Prime Minister", and this cannot be replaced. But, Mr President, following your call, I would ask you, in fact, to use the power judiciary so that there is no difficulty in the agenda which is summed up by a mere visit — which is legitimate, but a mere visit — which is not really an obstacle to Mr. Prime Minister's coming. We could be sensitive if Mr. Prime Minister was not in the country if he was in official representation. We would certainly be sensitive to this situation, with regard to this or any other government, but with all honesty, Mr President, confirming that this impossible agenda — and with all respect for the holiday, of course — is a visit to Saint John, it seems to me clearly little to fail to comply with the law. Therefore, Mr President, on behalf of the good institutional relationship between the supervisory authorities, which is the Government, and the supervisory officer, who is the Assembly of the Republic, I hope that your appeal will be sound and that the Secretary of State will take the necessary steps to ensure that the Prime Minister is present tomorrow in a debate which is of course important, under penalty, forgive me the expression of a strong « hammered » in the institutional relationship between the Government and the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u52	Mr Carlos César has the floor for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, about this parliamentary incident, what I think is that the PSD and the CDS-PP are not very interested in S. Bento, are only interested in being against S. João. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] But in any case, what I would like to stress, Mr President, is that no one can actually invoke the lack of knowledge of the law. The law requires everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u54	Looks like the law doesn't count!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u55	It obliges the Government, the Conference of Leaders, the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PCP, the BE and the Socialist Party, and only today all these parties and all these entities have remembered that we did not actually schedule the debate before the European Council. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, there is no responsibility or intention here for any of the parties to steal from a debate that has always been made here and that, with the greatest comfort and with the greatest pleasure, the Socialist Party or the Government would do or will do. It is also true that the Government's answer is that it will do its utmost to make that debate happen, in the circumstances in which it may take place on this date. So let's leave cases. S. Bento doesn't deserve that posture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u56	As President of the Assembly of the Republic, I have nothing more to add to what has already been said. I believe that it is important and fundamental to comply with the law and that, therefore, everything must be done for it to be fulfilled. Being the possible debate tomorrow, it would be great. I call on the Secretary of State to proceed accordingly.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u57	Let's make that effort. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u58	So they had to talk about going to the football game last night by Mrs. Christian Assumption, who missed the plenary!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u59	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now turn to item 2 of our agenda, which consists of an appeal to the Government No 6 / XIII ( 1 ). a ), of the CDS-PP, on health policies. For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u60	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Health is definitely at the top of citizens' concerns. The CDS-PP closely accompanies these concerns, such as all the issues that are of real and real importance to Portuguese people every day. A critical time is now approaching in the response of the health system. This government has been in office for six months and now is a good time, I would say, an excellent moment, to make a balance sheet of what has been your performance. It is necessary to understand whether the reality corresponds to the official narrative and whether the promises are being fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u62	So we started to see, because all of us, of course, remember that the parties that now support power, while they were in opposition, had several, not to say even many, claims in the area of health. One of them, for example, had to do with the functioning of hospitals, with the autonomy of these institutions, i.e. with the ability of hospital administrations to make the contracts necessary for good assistance to their users. In 2015, when the troika intervention period was exceeded, several advances were made in this area, increasing the autonomy of hospitals and improving their functioning. So what was now expected was that progress continued and autonomy increased. But what's going on in the field, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the opposite: there are more and more obstacles, more centralisation and increasingly dependent on guardianship. Mr Minister, note, we are not saying this, it is the President of the Central Health System Administration (ACSS) himself, Dr. Marta Temido, who says, and I quote, «... in recent times we tend to a very protective mentality and, at the same time, there is great control and even interference by the guardianship over the life of the institutions...». [[CDS-PP applause.]] But it's not just her. Also Mrs. Bastonária of the Order of Nurses has been talking about difficulties in hiring nurses.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u63	Ui! 20,000!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u64	A department of the Ministry of Health has removed autonomy from hospital administrations for many contracts, making it possible to hire replacement nurses when some of these professionals enter into prolonged low. In other words, contracting must have the support of the Ministry of Health and, of course, in theory, this endorsement is given in 72 hours, but in practice, we know that hospitals have been talking about waiting for this authorization for more than a month. It is even spoken of as closing hospital beds. [[Protests from PS Deputy Luísa Salgueiro.]] Here, moreover, Mr Secretary of State says, and I quote: «The closure of beds is not an evil in itself». I think it's extraordinary! I remember well what I heard not only about the PS but also about the BE or the PCP, and I do not cease to be extraordinary and very interesting to imagine what you said — remembering well what they said much less than what they said — about a State Secretary who says that the closure of hospital beds is not a bad thing in himself. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u65	Follow the context, Mr. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u66	It is extraordinary that those who, in the opposition, had so many demands now preferred silence. In fact, to the PS who, in opposition and theory, complained that everything in hospitals was under the control of the Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u67	Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u68	... since the hiring of a maquerade, to the acquisition of the maca, this PS, now in the government, who has walked back in this area and is currently dedicating the greatest centralism and the greatest dependence on the protection of hospitals. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It's true. In the strength of everything to reverse, it seems that in the Ministry of Health we have already begun to return even to the measures in force during the Financial Assistance Plan. But this is not the only way to measure the fulfillment of promises, because all national and international studies give priority to the promotion of primary health care and home care. however, as we know, there are still many Portuguese without a family doctor and many difficulties in marking consultations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u69	A million!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u70	The Government claims that it intends to open up by the end of this year 30 new USF Model A and migrate 25 to Model B. I'd like to ask: have you opened any? Any one of them? More: I would also like to ask parties such as the BE or the PCP, who did and promoted vigils against the closure of extensions of health centres, if many have already been reopened. Don't you protest now? Oh, my God! Don't they watch now? Oh, my God! I think it is extraordinary that parties which, in the opposition, were not even able to accuse the government of being responsible for the death of people, now have no shame and remain completely silent. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In fact, in your case, the power convinces and the power is worth it. Who saw you and who saw you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u72	Also in opposition, for example — the examples are many, it is only to choose, in fact, the difficulty is that — the PS cried out against disinvestment in the ongoing care network. Very important, we agree. however, already with this government PS, in the first quarter of the year, the number of people on the waiting list for a continuous care strike increased 72 %. Only in the Lisbon Region and Tejo Valley are 951 people waiting for a vacancy, as many as there were in the whole country at the end of 2014. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u74	These were your promises, this is your reality. But there is also much to say about the monumental mess in which the current majority managed to transform the 35 hours of work into the public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u75	This one's missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u76	I missed it, I missed it! I know it's uncomfortable, they don't want to answer, but they're gonna have to. The position of the CDS-PP is suddenly known...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u77	Tell me who it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u78	... and we have asked a lot of questions about this. But it is strange and particularly disturbing that many of them remain unanswered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u79	What is the position of the CDS-PP?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u80	The new working time comes into force within eight days on 1 July. This means, for example, that within eight days, SNS users and patients will stay, immediately—just to give an example— without about 200 000 hours of nursing care soon in the first week. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] The same is true in relation to other professionals, such as doctors, superior health technicians and operational assistants. The real question to which the Government has to answer, Minister, is not how many professionals will be hired. Don't! The question is: how many professionals have already hired to meet these needs? Because if the measure comes into force within eight days, of course, it is not in a week that the Ministry will be able to make all the necessary contracts. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Without this answer, Minister, and without these assurances, there is no SNS patient or user who can rest. Is it quite frankly that if you cannot explain how you will solve this issue, how will you compensate for these hours within a week, how can the patients trust that they will have access to the same health care as they are entitled to today? We are not talking about costs, Mr Minister, although it was not a bad idea either, not to say even indispensable, that the government should finally clarify how much this will cost, but that is not what we are asking you. What we are talking about is the care, and I would say, of the respect that SNS users and patients deserve and that make it imperative to explain how this measure will come into force within a week. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of matters worth talking about, and certainly if today we knew the budget implementation figures we could all speak with more ownership, but as mysteriously these numbers have been postponed, we will be left wondering whether the increase of EUR 100 million in late payments from hospitals, which occurred in the first quarter, is or is not definitely corrected. I must tell you that the mysterious delays in budgetary implementation do not bring any peace, but at last. In conclusion, I would like to say that the CDS comes to this debate with a position of opposition and responsible opposition. We are vigilant about the measures that the Government has taken, rigorously with regard to the fulfilment of promises and responsible for seeking consensus. in the discussions that we had here about birth and active aging we presented several proposals with an impact on health. This was the case, for example, with a recommendation to the Government to increase the LDC treatment cycles shared by SNS from three to five. It is true that it has been plunged by the left, but I think that in this proposal the common sense can prevail and the government can put aside the political tacticism which the parties that support it here have demonstrated and move forward with this measure. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It was also the case of proposals that are now being discussed in the specialty: a recommendation to the Government to promote legal review, in consultation with insurance companies, in order to defend the elderly from excessive penalties; a recommendation for the Government to reactivate the Health 24 Senior line until the beginning of autumn; a recommendation to the Government to strengthen the training of professionals in the area of health, in the area of management, or recommendations and even a project related to the vital will. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u81	Would you like to conclude, Member of Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u82	Of course, I'll be done right away. These measures are focused but can have a very real impact on the lives of millions of Portuguese people, there is only political will to do so. In conclusion, I would say that we leave here questions that can no longer be answered, inconsistencies for which, I tell you frankly, we have also lost hope of finding an explanation, and a concrete opening to seek consensus on very real points. Above all, what we want is to contribute to a quality health policy, which is a reality and not just a promise. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u83	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over the past few months, the Government has sought to restore Portuguese confidence in the future of the country and to improve its living conditions effectively. From the first moment we stated that the sustainability of the National Health Service is a priority that should reconcile rigor in the management of resources with the reformist momentum. in this sense, we aim to improve access to quality health care, supported by an idea of reforming, transforming and modernizing. That was, in fact, the motto of the SNS forum that we made this week. during this period we have executed the Government Program on each of its axes: 11 priority health programs, 2 horizontal programs were launched in the field of health promotion and, for the first time, a specific program for physical activity was created. New initiatives have also been launched in the field of tobacco prevention and the promotion of healthy food. We presented the new National Vaccination Program for 2017, introducing the vaccination of pregnant women against seizure cough, free vaccination against meningitis B in children with impaired immunity, hexavalent vaccine and the 10-year anticipation of administration of the vaccine against HPV (human papilloma virus). With this amendment, we continue to succeed in one of Europe's best vaccination programmes, maintaining pioneering in their innovation processes. in the context of the reduction of inequalities between citizens in access to health, the overall reduction of the value of moderate and eliminated rates was implemented, where the user is referred to, while at the same time, the system of dispensation of moderate rates was reviewed, exempting, inter alia, the payment of blood benevolous donors. As a result, in the first four months of this year, and particularly in April, after the publication of the State Budget, blood donations have risen for the first time since the last four years. The right to transport of non-emergency patients was restored with a view to ensuring access to health care, in accordance with the clinical and economic conditions of the citizens. in the context of strengthening the power of the citizen was established the legal regime that created the National Health Council, a commitment aimed at ensuring the participation of citizens in the definition of policies, as a way to promote a culture of transparency and accountability. We relaunched the reform of primary health care. At this very moment, at the conclusion of the competition for the completion of 338 vacancies in the field of general and family medicine, which will finally allow the allocation of family physicians to over 600 000 Portuguese. We will change the pay conditions in the context of the provision of work by retired doctors, allowing, with their return, to extend the coverage of the population by family doctor. Until the end, ladies and gentlemen. Members will be constituted 30 new USF( Family Health Units ) of type A and will be created up to 25 new USF of type B. I note that the State budget came into force at the beginning of April. In partnership with various authorities, we launched an ambitious investment programme, which will allow the remodeling and construction of about two dozen health centres. We also develop pilot projects in the area of oral and visual health, in view of the indispensable increase in the resolution of primary health care. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, within the framework of the requalification of the hospital network, have been recognized 84 reference centres in the various clinical areas, thus designing the image of the country in the European space, well illustrated by the possibility of the Portuguese reference centres to coordinate and lead one or more European reference networks at European level. In partnership with the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, seven clinical academic centers were created, with the aim of promoting integration between research, teaching and care activities. With a view to improving the management of hospitals and the linkage with other levels of health care, the Integrated Access Management System ( SIGA ) was created, centralizing at a single point to consultation on time and time with the Integrated System of Inscription Management for Surgery ( SIGIC ). We introduced the principle of free access and movement within the SNS, which is already a reality implemented today in 100 % of the national territory, allowing more than 10 % of users to have already chosen another hospital than the standard reference one. We started the internalization process of waiting lists in surgery in SNS units, thus avoiding the use of the private sector and concentrating essential resources on improving the functioning of public hospitals and the motivation of their professionals. We aim, in the context of the shared management of SNS resources, to further extend this year to the area of complementary diagnostic and therapeutic means. We have a comprehensive plan for the expansion of the National Network of Integrated Continuous Care (RNCCI), particularly in the Lisbon region, where many days ago we signed with the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa a protocol that will allow the short-term opening of dozens of beds. in the year that this network celebrates its 10th. the anniversary will give an important impetus to the mental health area, through the launch of units that promote proximity and take care of people's home as much as possible. Still within the framework of the National Palliative Care Network, it was finally four years later, appointed the coordinator team, assigning the particular government priority to this area and, tomorrow, in Matosinhos, will be inaugurated the first unit of continuous and pediatric palliative care on the Iberian Peninsula, The Kastelo, with 10 beds and 10 places in outpatient clinic, result of a virtuous partnership between the State and social actors. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, within the framework of the governance of the SNS we are now improving the model of contractualization, which aims to create new centres of integrated responsibility in the short term. Yesterday we signed the affiliation protocols between different hospitals that aim to give expression to the sharing of resources, means, equipment and services. As I had the opportunity to mention yesterday, at the hearing of the Parliamentary Health Commission, we aim, from next year onwards, to introduce the principle of public procurement for service management functions, thus progressively terminating the appointments by invitation. Yesterday's creation of the Hospital Monitoring Group ( GAH ) that integrate the SNS aims to support the alignment between the best performances of the different units and to take advantage of a strategy for the governance of hospitals. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the use of public resources requires a climate of transparency and continuous evaluation by citizens. The creation of the SNS Portal represented an important step in this direction, well illustrated by the more than 2 million views recorded since its launch. We have introduced transparency measures at all levels, with timely disclosure of the relative information, with no fear, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, by demonstrating or showing what's going well, but also what's going wrong. Full information on waiting times, response times, emergency services is available. Continued efforts have been made to combat fraud, with the creation of a specialized group. The Transparency and Advertising platform has just been subject to changes, giving more visible and effective information, as the recent news coming to the public determines. The full implementation of the paperless revenue, which in January this year represented less than 1 % and currently represents only 75 % in the SNS and, when considered as the private sector, 54 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the area of medicine we signed the Commitment for the Sustainability and Development of the National Health Service and reviewed the mechanisms for dispensation and participation of medicines to chronic outpatients in the outpatient clinic. The pilot project for dispensation of antiretroviral therapy in community pharmacies is being prepared and constitutes a scientific commission to monitor and evaluate the health gains produced. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude by affirming the Government's determination to pursue a strategy for the consolidation and development of the National Health Service, ensuring the balance between public accounts, in fact, so little inflated, to my surprise, by Mrs Cecilia Meireles, but with the sense of responsibility that the country's accounts and budgetary consolidation must be made at the same time with social justice, in a partnership framework with professionals, institutions and social actors. We are right, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that it will be possible in this way to respond to the challenges ahead, ensuring the answers that the Portuguese people expect from us, in safety conditions as to the quality necessary that demagogy does not indeed recommend. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u85	Applications for clarification to the Interpelent Party and the Government are now being followed. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has three entries for requests for clarification and will inform how she wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u86	I shall first respond to the first two requests for clarification and then to the third, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u87	You have the floor, then, for the first request for clarification, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u88	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the first intervention of the CDS-PP did not exactly spark a debate; it did not bring a debate, it brought a card, perhaps to hide some answers that the CDS-PP has to give to some questions. He's talking about hospitals. I would like Mrs Cecilia Meireles to be able to inform this House about how many professionals have been lost in the National Health Service for four and a half years of PSD / CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u89	All right! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u90	How many beds have been closed in the National Health Service for four and a half years of PSD/CDS government? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Just a small research based on.gov.pt to realize that in 2014 and 2015 there were hundreds of direct adjustment contracts to temporary work companies to place doctors and nurses in hospitals. Why, Mrs. Cecilia Meireles? Was it because there were enough professionals in the National Health Service at the PSD/CDS government, or was it because they really lacked much and needed? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u91	The honourable Member also spoke of primary health care. How many users without a family doctor existed at the end of the PSD/CDS government? Are you able to inform this House about this number? A million? Will it be a million? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The honourable Member has talked about continuing care. Will you know Mrs. Member of the report of the Health Regulatory Authority at the end of 2015, which says that 92 % of people aged 65 or older have extreme difficulty in accessing continuous care? What government was four and a half years before this report was published? Finally, I want to ask two more questions. What did CDS-PP and PSD do at moderate health rates? And what was the impact on access to health care? The honourable Member mentioned proposals that the CDS-PP would have. I ask you two things: the Left Block, at this legislative session, presented a proposal to revoke a portal from the previous government that disqualified hospitals and imposed a loss of valence. How did the CDS-PP vote on this left block proposal? Was it against him? It was against! The Left Block submitted a proposal to revoke an order requiring the closure of 11 emergencies in the country. How did the CDS-PP vote on this left block proposal? Was it against him? It was against! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u92	The total intervention time to ask for clarifications is obviously discounted in the total time allocated to each parliamentary group, so this will happen to all other interventions. You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u93	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, in her initial speech, Mrs Deputy spoke of a lack of memory. So I'm going to stir up your memory, Mrs. Cecilia Meireles. The honourable Member said, with regard to the closure of beds, that there was now a closure of beds. So I ask you, Mrs Deputy: how many beds have you closed in the last four years, what has been the responsibility of the CDS-PP? Tell the honourable Member that there is now a lack of professionals. Do you know how many professionals have gone out in the past four years because of CDS-PP and PSD policy? It's just that they recently left the National Health Service. The honourable Member says there is a lack of health professionals. And how many have emigrated, including doctors, nurses and diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, over the past four years, because they haven't found any service here? Does the honourable Member say that there is no memory of disrespect for users? Oh, my God! And where was respect for CDS and PSD, when they brutally increased moderate rates and when they changed the rules of patient transportation? And when, in the face of the chaos that was living in the emergencies, with patients in the beds dying without assistance, the Secretary of State said: "Where is chaos? I don't see any chaos. Everything's fine. This, yes, is a lack of memory! It is that the Portuguese Communist Party has no lack of memory.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u94	That's a lack of memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u95	in the past and in the present, the PCP always said: there are problems in the SNS? There! These are problems that are not at present, problems that have already come far and have been aggravated in the last four years by the policy of exploitation and impoverishment. Mrs. Member, we do not lack memory,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u96	There's no shame in you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u97	... and we continue to present fair proposals for the defense of the National Health Service, but what we have on the side of the CDS is the rejection of these proposals. Madam Member, what you wanted with this introductory debate was to try to whitewash and make you forget what the political options were and what the CDS would like to do, which is to attack the National Health Service, attack its professionals, attack users and users' rights and not comply with and respect Article 64. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u98	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u99	Mr President, first of all, in reply to the honourable Members. Mr. Moisés Ferreira and Mr. Carla Cruz, I would like to say that there is a pattern here in these debates, because I note in the parties that support the current majority, especially in the most left, a terrible problem with the present. You don't say a word about the present! [[CDS-PP applause.]] You have no idea what the present is! They do not present a proposal on the present! [[CDS-PP applause.]] In fact, the vote in your parties is the vote in the past because you, today, say nothing. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Moisés Ferreira said that I did not bring a debate, he brought a card. Mr President, I consider this to be a compliment, because that means that I have brought about real problems! I'm sorry if that doesn't satisfy your superior intellect, but my goal was even that. When you talk, for example, about hiring doctors, I can inform you, because I believe the data are public, of the following: 1556 doctors were hired in 2012, 1635 doctors in 2013, 1785 doctors in 2014, and in 2015, 1945 doctors in a total of 6921 doctors. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u100	And how many left? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u101	I would rather talk about those who were hired this year, but on this matter, you voted in silence. This is called the « coalition of power ». Power, in your case, implies the vote of silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u102	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u103	And he also asks how many users there are without family doctors and how many there were with the previous government. I can tell you that when the previous government left, there were fewer than 600 000 users without a family doctor...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u104	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u105	...of what when he took possession.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u106	It's a lie! She's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u107	And, moreover, I can also tell you that there were a majority of Portuguese exempt from moderate rates. Now, Mr President, I would very much like to hear about the future and hear your opinion on the numerous problems I have raised in that forum. It is only that it is extraordinary that, who was so curious to know so much about the previous government, there is no doubt about this government that you support, that you are curious to know anything. It's the most absolute silence. Mrs Carla Cruz says that I brought here a debate on lack of memory. Mrs Deputy, it was not about lack of memory; it was about lack of political coherence and lack of speech. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It's about parties that promise, say one thing and do another. So the subject was different. [[PCP protests.]] The honourable Member has called against the closure of beds made by the previous Government. And what does this government now do for you to support? So, you, with the previous government, were against the closure of beds and now with this minister, are you in favour? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] If it's against you, do something! Now, are you quiet? Oh, my God! That's not a lack of memory! That is a lack of coherence, which is something very different.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u108	That is a lack of intellectual seriousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u109	And I say more to you, Mrs Member, I know that whenever there are few arguments and whenever reality bothers us and you do not want to talk about the present, I have learned that with VV. Ex.as, because this has been your situation, more or less current, in the last six months—there is always the following key: « You are against the SNS ». And, like, if we ask questions about the Box, it's because we're against the Box ; if we ask questions about the SNS, it's because we're against the SNS ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u110	And they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u111	...if we ask questions about education, it's because we're against public school. Now it's forbidden to ask questions. The monopoly of questions is VV. Ex..
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u112	But they don't...!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u113	This is not an attack on the SNS, on the contrary. This, yes, is the defense of the SNS. [[PCP laughter.]] What really attacks the SNS is to be absolutely demagogic, using even dramatic and serious cases...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u115	... and the lives of people to attack the government in office, and then, just because they are in power, just because the unions already have what they want, stay quiet and realize that nothing is going on. This is what attacks the SNS. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u116	You now have the floor to Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u117	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, first of all, wanted to welcome the CDS for the opportunity of this debate. Public health policies are, in fact, essential and essential in the days ahead. I would also like to greet Mr Minister for his initial speech and for showing us that it was possible to do so in such a short time. I would also like to welcome Mrs Cecilia Meireles, because I sincerely saw Mrs Cecilia Meireles more quickly in this new CDS to discuss the negotiation of sanctions or not sanctions for the result of the 2015 budget implementation and for the non-compliances—because that is what will be discussed in the 2015 budget implementation, we should not forget — rather than to discuss public health policies. But I am glad that we have won another vote in this area, Mrs Deputy. Mr Deputy, in fact, the budget and many of the measures of the previous Government have continued. The problem of this government has been the starting point where we left. Of course, because we had to restore salaries, incomes, which you and the previous government unfortunately destroyed. But we will certainly all be aware of our responsibilities, as we have already seen from the intervention of the Minister. And we all know that it is not enough to provide health care for the patients, to give employment to the unemployed and quality education to our children, but that is why we have to start. And that is also why our union becomes stronger — and I am talking about this union that you want to fight so much. We are with the CDS to the extent that we are concerned about the fact that a National Health Service is not sustainable if it is based on debt. But it is also not sustainable if it is based on underfunding and a strategy to push people out of the public system, favoring, in a way that has never been assisted in recent years and that many of us consider very exaggerated, the private sector. And, Madam Member, we do not have prejudices about the private sector, but in fact we have other priorities. And the redefinition of these priorities has already begun. Strengthening the National Health Service, public health policies, in addition to restoring income, is important, such as the Sr. Members know, to make the National Health Service more appealing to maintain and capture more health professionals. Unfortunately, the loss of autonomy of the hospital administrations, precisely contrary to what the honourable Member said, led me to recall, in a very recent past, that it was Mrs. Minister of Finance, and not even Mr. Minister of Health, to decide on the hiring of a maquerro, a maca, whatever it was. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This was one of the factors, but there are others. The blind application of the law of commitments, among many others, has caused us to lose many human resources. But we have also found that in six months of government there has already been progress and we know that today, in terms of total human resources, there are more 7000 health professionals. And the most experienced and qualified are — and still well — returning. To this end, it also contributed to the redefinition of national health plans in the strategic axes set out in an integrated perspective, which will certainly also bring even more gains and, we hope, more effective in defending the health policies followed by this government, because those of the previous government, of public, had little. We are also aware of the difficulties we face, but we are determined to overcome. And it is in this spirit that I appeal to the consensus and to the high sense of responsibility which I obviously recognize in the honourable Member, that I challenge you. We have difficulty fixing doctors in the country. Several measures have already been tried through incentives—and you know, even because you have experience in another area, but also in this area of incentives—but this is a difficult problem, which we are committed to solving, and I assume that you too. Therefore, as I know that it is a good policy to encourage people to make free choices—in fact, they do not stop saying that this maximum of free choices, etc. There are many possibilities, I ask: what proposals does the honourable Member have, in particular in this area, to bring to this debate? It is enough, as the honourable Member has said — and I repeat, by doing my own words, that there is political will to do so. Mrs. Deputy, turn from words to acts. Say something concrete! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u118	And in conclusion, I just wanted to remind you — and not hurt me — that the balance of doctors is as follows: currently there are 26 697, which compares to 25 308, when your government has left. I leave this to you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u119	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u120	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos for her words and her question and welcome. Mrs. Member, we, here on the CDS, are used to talking about everything. I believe that it will not be necessary to welcome me, but, in any case, thank you very much. In any case, one thing does not take away the other and, on all matters which seem relevant to me or which seem relevant to any of us, we will certainly talk about. So let's go to the concrete questions. First: the honourable Member said that the starting point of this government was different. You're right! The starting point of this government was different. For example, the former government, at its starting point, had much more than 3000 million debt in the SNS and this government departed with almost half of the debt. So it's a different starting point. It is true that in the first quarter there were more than 100 million late payments, but I want to trust that the problem is solved, although the data that would allow me to make that confirmation. On other issues you have raised and on the concrete proposals you have made in a constructive way, I would like to mention the following: a measure that the Government has announced, which is the user's freedom of choice in relation to hospitals, and that the CDS has long defended — it is a measure for which we certainly have openness — constructively, what we believe...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u121	There are already 10 % of the users to decide!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u122	I know, 10 percent of the users already decide! The question I put, and I put it in a constructive way, is the following: has any transition fund been secured to that which will necessarily be the difference in the number of users among hospitals and which will lead to the need to guard this transition, since the fixed costs will remain in some hospitals that will have fewer users? As you see, it was a question asked quite constructively! [[CDS-PP applause.]] With regard to the issues you have raised about the public sector and the private sector, I make it clear that for the CDS, the priority is good service to the users and good treatment of patients. I just hope, and I trust, that the PS does not change this priority to make an ideological freight to those who keep it in government. That's what I hope doesn't happen! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Madam Member, there is one question which I think is very important and which remains unanswered: how will the 35-hour timetable be implemented? [[All right!]] [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u123	To the usual, I said nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u124	It should be noted that I hear many technical discussions about costs, values and contracts, all of them are important and I also want to know about them, but I am already at the core of the basics of the minimums: these hours that will be done less, within a week, will be needed in hospitals. How will patients be treated since professionals are going to work less hours? The question is not what you're going to do. The question is, it has to be done!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u125	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u126	If it's not done, it won't be on the ground in a week. And this is the fundamental question that needs to be explained today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u127	There is now a set of eight questions to Mr Health Minister, and the first will be asked by Mrs Teresa Caeiro of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u128	Mr President, Minister of Health, as has been said repeatedly in recent times, health is in fact a strategic area that inevitably needs consensus. And it is in this sense that we are here, that is, with a critical but constructive stance. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS is not available for populist and demagogic policies that add nothing to the sustainability and good functioning of the National Health Service. Our concern is citizens, they are all SNS users and they are all those who want and have the right to access to quality health care. These are our priorities and they are unquestionable. We know that people out there want to hear us, on social issues, and in particular in the area of health, stability, predictability and consensus. These are questions that are close to them and that have to do with their well-being, with their quality of life, with the quality of life of their neighbors and with all their life course from the moment they are born to the moment they die. We know and you know, Minister and Mr. State Secretaries, which the Portuguese want to fulfil the duty to guarantee all users, regardless of their resources, quality health care and in clinically acceptable times. In short, they want the design of the National Health Service universal, general and trendly free of charge. But the CDS knows — and you also know — that we can only ensure a solid SNS if we know how to manage it in an effective and sustainable way. The Minister is very well aware of the pressures under the National Health Service and the health system, not only because of the increased life expectancy, but above all because of the care that leads to this increase in life expectancy, for the therapies applicable to chronic diseases, and for the pressure of treatments and complementary means of diagnosis and therapy increasingly sophisticated, better and more expensive. What's this to say, Minister? If we are all, I think, according to the assumptions, you have let yourself be entangled with your management partners in a corner that will at no time work together to solve the problems that the health sector faces. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u129	You are captured by a rejection—or by several rejections! — blind and purely ideological, from the outset, in relation to everything that has to do with the social sector and with the private sector. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Now, what I ask, Minister, is the following: what is the price that you, in the government, are paying, will pay and will make the Portuguese pay for this capture that they have for radical left-wing ideologies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u131	I speak of this radical left that never takes into account the costs or the importance of having a sustainable system. I also ask the Minister: why did you invest an agreement taken by the Portuguese State in the direction of the return of hospitals to the Mercy, which would help reduce the waiting lists for consultations and surgeries, with absolutely adequate prices and in defense of good governance of the public record? This is one of the signs of your capture. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you one more question and ask you once again to answer us with all the facts: how are you going to solve the 35-hour question? How are you guys gonna do it in a week? [[CDS-PP applause.]] As has already been said by my colleague Cecilia Meireles, only one week and only in the nursing area will be done less than 205,000 hours, and no longer to speak of other professionals, such as health technicians and other assistants. How are you going to overcome these shortcomings? Minister, what are we in? Or this working time is not necessary, which I do not think is probable, or it is necessary, and then you do not realize why you are going to reduce working time. What is going to happen is that you are going to have to pay, as Mr Minister did yesterday, to do 100 % of the extraordinary hours for doctors. Are you aware of how much this costs? The PCP, by the way, has no memory, it has no decorum, regarding the criticisms it has made in the past and that it does not now deal with the huge cuts and the closure of beds in the National Health Service! Therefore, you have a problem of lack of decorum, not of memory. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Question: Does the Minister remember being committed to seriously reducing the extraordinary work arrangements in the SNS with the progressive introduction of premiums and compensation for production and quality? Mr Minister, where do we stay on this subject? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u132	Have shame! They left patients with hepatitis C to die without medication!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u133	Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u134	Mr President, Minister of Health, taking into account the first question which I had the opportunity to ask Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP, and her insurgent not responding, we have here concluded that there is no very great intention of having a debate on the part of the CDS-PP, that there is a intention to make a populist play around the flag of the National Health Service, which, in fact, the honourable Members. CDS members have not defended the last four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u135	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u136	Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to discuss with the Minister what is really relevant to health in Portugal. They speak of sustainability of the National Health Service, but they do not say that the cuts that the previous PSD/CDS government applied to use the National Health Service budget as funding for business and private activities. The cuts that were applied were more expensive to the National Health Service, as is visible in the increase in costs with surgical vouchers, as is visible in the increase in costs with those agreed in the complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, as is visible in the increase in costs with temporary work enterprises for the placement of doctors and nurses.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u138	Mr. Minister, to invest in the National Health Service we need to have resources, we need to have money. It's true! We have already proven that cuts in the National Health Service are more expensive, are a way of diverting money to finance private businesses. It is necessary to save, cut redundancy and invest in the National Health Service. Mr Minister, the questions I put to you are the following: where are we going to cut? How are we gonna save? Are we going to invest this money in the National Health Service already in the 2017 budget? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u139	Mr Luís Vales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u140	Mr President, Minister of Health, I am going to talk about the social sector, a fundamental sector in which is one of the most generous expressions of social solidarity, a sector that has developed throughout the history of our country and that has been pioneer in providing health care to populations in Portugal and has established the first hospital coverage in the territory. This says nothing to the extreme left that supports its government, for which it must be « everything in the state, nothing outside the state ». That is truly your genetic brand. The Socialist Party was not like that, Minister. The Socialist Party believed in society and fruitful cooperation between the State and institutions of solidarity. We are still listening to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health take an oath saying that the government supports the social sector and considers it a partner. We know that the Minister of Health will probably do it again today, but it will only be words and words « take them to the wind». As far as the facts are concerned, the reality of the last few months is unfortunately quite different. in these six months, the government reverted cooperation agreements that the Portuguese State celebrated last year with various Mercy for the return of the management of hospitals and that had been policeed in the sad times of the PREC. Yes, of the 1975 Revolutionary Process in Course! More: it has reverted these agreements—and it should be remembered that the hospitals of the Mercy in the National Health Service—and did so even against the will of the populations and the authorities, as happened, for example, with the Hospital de São João da Madeira. As for the hospitals of Anadia, Fafe and Serpa, returned to the Mercy in 2014, the data point to overall positive results, with the increase in the number of consultations, surgeries and the creation of more jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u141	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u142	The PSD hopes that the government will not now try to find a file that would sacrifice the accessibility of those people to health for ideological prejudices that should have long been overcome in democratic, pluralistic and inclusive countries. Minister, in continuous care, while the government promises thousands of new beds without saying how and when it will create them, draw them up, delay and block the entry into operation of about 500 beds that are ready and should already be at the service of SNS users. More than 2500 Portuguese are waiting for vacancies on the network. The action of this government discriminates and pursues the social sector and what is more serious is that it harms users in the name of the purest ideological sectarianism of the extreme left that supports it. We, the PSD, believe that the extension of the continuing care network should continue and must go through the commitment to collaboration between the State and the social partners, whose invaluable role greatly contributes to the provision of continuous humanized and quality care. We are consistent, Minister. So in the last four years, we have strengthened the continuing care network in more than 2500 beds, exceeding 8000 — an increase of 50 % as remarkable as it is true to have been done during times of crisis that the country inherited from the last socialist management. I ask you, Minister: why does it not open the continuing care beds that have been ready for months? Why does it not honour the commitment to the social and solidarity sector that the Portuguese State signed in 2014? Will you respect the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 81 / 2016 and maintain the hospitals of Anadia, Fafe and Serpa integrated in the National Health Service under the management of their respective Mercy? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u143	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u144	Mr President, Minister of Health: Allow me, firstly, to greet the Parliamentary Group of the CDS for the opportunity of this inquiry and for the return to the good cause of social policies and public policies, particularly in the field of health. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that we have been used to seeing the CDS on the left side of the PSD for a long time, and today we again see that this situation remains. In any case, I would like to go directly to the questions that have been raised. Mrs Teresa Caeiro, we agree with you that populism should not be done, and we will not. We will continue with what has been our record of affirming the implementation of a Government Programme in the name of the interest of the Portuguese, avoiding what is the easy populism and the rhetoric of the moment. As far as consensus is concerned, you know perfectly well that I am totally in favour of it and I understand that the country would gain a lot in which, on fundamental matters, such as health matters, there would be a huge consensus. But I am sure that in this House this consensus will be easy to establish around what unites us, which is the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If, as today, the CDS here, and very well, has said and repeated, the concerns that it says are to enforce the Constitution of the Republic in relation to National Health Service; we will be with the greatest ease of working with you, with the PSD, with the Portuguese Communist Party, with the Left Block and with the Greens. Mrs. Deputies, believe that there is no plot or catch. There is, essentially, the idea that the National Health Service needs to be defended. And we are not here today to have a debate on the social sector, we are having a debate on the National Health Service and public health policies. We're going to the social sector. Madam Member, this concern which has been raised by your parliamentary group, and by other parliamentary groups, that there is a sort of persecution, some alienation or some disinterest of the State in working with the social sector, is clearly exaggerated. And why is it manifestly exaggerated, Mrs. Member? Because what the Government has done, since it has taken power, has been to suspend three agreements with three Mercyries, keeping a line of work, moreover, together with working groups defined by the Union of Mercy itself, in the sense that agreements which are not good or on which there are doubts should not continue. We are developing with the Union of Mercy and with the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon a programme for the development of the network because we recognize that the social sector in this area has done well and has served the national interest well. Mrs Deputy — I have already said this in my initial speech — the good example of this interaction with the social sector and the IPSS is given tomorrow in Matosinhos by opening a unit, which is emblematic for all of us, the Paediatric Palliative Care Unit. Mrs. Deputy, we've been talking about closing beds. It was good that the debate was thorough, rigorous, but that it was also intellectually serious. Because we have 21 720 public beds in Portugal, and they will have been closed 20, because of what we are told about this in summer, because in winter we know that they will probably open 30% to respond to winter demand needs. We know that in the SNS, in winter, beds are added, in summer, eventually, for reasons even of operation of hospitals, beds can be disabled. Therefore, 20 beds were closed in 21 720. She then spoke about statements made by me in the Health Committee of extraordinary hours. What I said yesterday in the Health Committee — and it is recorded — was badly placed in the media by a news agency, but I will clarify. What I said yesterday was that it should be borne in mind that doctors are the only professional group that is obliged to do extraordinary hours beyond 150 hours per year and that it is of the most basic justice that conditionalism is reviewed, which exists, to pay 50 % for those hours. Madam Member, it has also been said here by another Member that it has been in the last four years that the companies that provide medical services have more bloomed and today represent EUR 80 million in payments. However, these EUR 80 million in payments to companies providing medical services are more than enough to accommodate, with budgetary neutrality, what may be the need to recognise surplus medical work and a different way of valuing it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us then turn to the question which is the Alpha and the Omega of all the debates we have had, whether yesterday or today: 35 hours. We should like to know that the apocalyptic theory that had witnessed a crisis of political coexistence between us and the parties that support the government and a budgetary disaster in January, in February, in March, in April, in May and June, seems to have lost some energy, to the point of alarming me even at the fact that Mrs Cecilia Meireles, who is a well-known specialist in economics and finance, has spent a lot of time on this matter. Madam Member, there is no concealment here of the publication of the accounts, this is a decision of the Directorate-General for Budget and the Ministry of Finance. The accounts will be published on the right date and I must tell you that the indicators that we have, compared with the same period, give us reasons for the government and surely Mr Deputy, for the end of the year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Teresa Caeiro, as regards 35 hours, on 1 July the law which was passed by this House will be applied to all public service workers, with public employment contracts, 35 hours. Thus, what happens in the area of health is that, in most of the services that do not depend on shiftwork, the situation is fully guarded. And we are working with hospitals, which, as it is known, are institutions that have jobs per shift in large quantities, with ACSS and with the unions, in order to go adjusting the needs according to the reality that is being detected. But you know, Mrs. Nurse, excuse me. [[PS laughter.]] I would even call her Nurse, so was my concern with nurses...! I showed yesterday a chart in the Health Commission that, in the last year and a half, more than 2000 nurses were recruited. Which means that probably, as I said yesterday in the Health Committee, the situation will not be as difficult as what was initially thought might be. I assure you, Mrs Deputies, to end the 35-hour question, that the Government commits itself here, before this House and before the Portuguese, that there is no cause for concern and that the situation will be managed as it has so far been the execution of the budget, as has been so far been the implementation of government policies: with great tranquillity, so much so that it can disturb some more restless and angry spirits. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, time is short, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, it is true that the report of OPSS ( Portuguese Health System Observatory) highlighted what we all know: poverty, disease, difficulty in performance, worsening of living and health conditions. It is true, Mr, that redundancy is a serious problem affecting the SNS. We are internalizing surgery on waiting lists and we will, by the end of the year, create conditions for most of the complementary means of diagnosis to be done within the National Health Service. Finally, Mr Luís Vales, I believe that, in part, I have answered you in my reply to Mrs Teresa Caeiro, but I assure you that the Government has the best position in relation to the social sector in relation to the role it has played in the area of continued integrated care. This partnership will be deepened, developed and continued without any ideological constraints, without any prejudice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u145	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u146	One of the undisturbed issues in this debate on health policies is clearly ADSE. And, as we have already spoken on starting points, it seems important to start with the starting point where this government has received ADSE. As a result of legislative changes, the most important of which in the previous legislation, even under strong troika pressure, ADSE is no longer a deficit subsystem, which obliged the financial compensation of the State budget, to be today a system with operating surpluses of around EUR 200 million per year, which allows us to speak in medium-term sustainability. Funded by the unique contributions of its approximately 1, 2 million members,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u147	The story is not quite that of 1, 2 million followers!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u148	... and with the value recognised by public servants insofar as since it became a voluntary regime, only 0, 2 % of the base chose to leave, and all trade unions, without exception, intend to maintain ADSE. It is the current government, and well, that puts ADSE and its restructuring on the agenda, due to the results of two studies already made public, that of the reform committee, led by Prof. Pita Barros, and that of the Health Regulatory Entity. And what do they, synthetically, recommend? Well, the reform committee essentially proposes a mutualized system open to all State workers, including contracts over six months, with an autonomous management of the government. The Health Regulatory Entity also proposes an extension of ADSE, but it claims to be questionable, both in legal and political terms, what should be that enlargement. It stresses that financial sustainability depends on the new beneficiaries to be net contributors and that it is essential that the subsystem can independently have the good financial surpluses generated. For the Health Regulatory Entity, in fact, the most favourable model of governance will be that of the private institute without profit. It remains, therefore, to perceive what the thought of the PS will be. I confess that I tried to do it - and it didn't seem linear, because in January 2013 the PS Coordinator for the health area, Álvaro Beleza, defended the extinction of ADSE, however, forwarding that it was only a personal opinion that did not bind the party. at the same time, the former Minister of the PS, Correia de Campos, said that the subsystem was evil, of course unfair and that it should be replaced by a mechanism of mutualization. The former Minister Ana Jorge presented another thesis: ADSE may be progressively integrated into the SNS or, then, there is a redefinition walking towards an autonomous system. So for this ex-Minister, it could be as long as it could be transformed into an autonomous system. Does that sound clear to you? It seems to me very unclear. On the other hand, this week we learned that the direction of ADSE has entered into its plan of activities that the system should have public funding again, but it also explains that this understanding is yours, and not necessarily the government, although the plan has been validated by the guardianship. In the face of all this, the obvious question is: what is the thought of PS and guardianship on this subject? Because it seems — and still well — that the existence of ADSE is no longer under discussion and that it is now a collective conquest of the surplus account that allows the public servants to maintain this good service in the medium term. But to safeguard the future, decisions are needed. And, after all, what restructuring is going to be done? Is it going to be self-sustained? Will mutualization or non-profit private management be chosen? Is an extension of membership going to be made? If so, to whom and under what conditions? Will efficiency control mechanisms be considered? The Minister is probably going to answer me that you are still evaluating these studies and I am telling you that the CDS is available to seek consensus solutions. But Mr Minister, that is why we need to know which side the government will ask for guidance on this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u149	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Fatima Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u150	Mr President, Minister : we have for ourselves, and I have for myself, who loves to take care of. And we love the National Health Service. [[Oh...!]] [[Oh...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u151	That's why we took care of the National Health Service while we were government. So we defended him, so we sought, despite the difficulties, that he had confidence. I conclude that the extreme left does not love him: he does not love him because he systematically criticizes and criticizes many of the measures that have been taken in order to defend him. And when we give you confidence, satisfaction with this trust is seen, for example, because at a difficult time, we managed to get the English Prime Minister to use our National Health Service when he was in Portugal. Mr Minister, Law No 18 / 2016 was published, which establishes 35 hours as a normal period of work in public service. The country was informed that from 1 July there are first and second workers. But worse: there are first-time workers and second-time workers in the state itself, working side by side. Public service workers will have 35 hours, workers with individual employment contracts will have 40 hours to work in the same state, in the same nurses, in the same emergency service! We understand from your words yesterday in the Commission that you have now begun — and only now — a negotiation process that will be done on a case-by-case basis, the situation, and that will probably depend on the pressure of each occupational group. The result will continue to be an unfair situation—it is already unfair now, from day 1—a situation of inequality, where, side by side, as I said, we will have workers doing the same service and with different gifts. You talked about the Constitution a while ago. It seems to us that this is contrary to the principle of equality as enshrined in Article 13. the Constitution. After all, for the majority on the left, the public service workers are all equal, but there are some more equal than others. [[PCP protests.]] Does Mr. Minister not consider this unfair? Mr President, when you heard about the situation, shouldn't you have begun to deal with this issue longer and to negotiate? You certainly do not want to harm the services, as has already been said, that you do not want to harm the patients, but we also mentioned here many months ago that, for every seven workers, it took one more, not to harm the health service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u152	Now look at the state they've left things behind! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u153	So, Minister, you have asked to make a survey of the needs for strengthening staff and extraordinary hours that each health service, every hospital—and I am thinking of Viseu, Covilhã, Coimbra—is it going to have to behave to deal with the new working time? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u154	The Portuguese have the right to know what the concrete impact of 35-hour application will be. In summary, when the law is being applied, we all have the right to know the costs of each of the SNS services. How much will the Portuguese pay for this left-wing majority decision? The Minister mentioned an annual cost of over EUR 50 million, which in the second half of this year would be EUR 27 million. The Minister of Finance said it would have to be a zero cost. The law was promulgated under this condition. Mr Minister, do not tell us that you will save somewhere else to deal with the costs of applying the new law without telling where, because we need to know. In fact, it has already been asked today where the Minister will find the EUR 27 million that said this measure would cost this year. What services are you going to cut the 27 million euros in? Do you have studies that demonstrate in a well-founded way where you're going to cut? So, Minister, you have usually made good speeches, you often try to give hope, but you have a problem here to solve that you should already be resolved... [[PCP protests.]] ... and, regardless of numbers, what we know is that for every seven nurses, for every seven operational assistants, there will be one more need and we do not want to harm the service, because, as I told you at first, we love the National Health Service and that is why we want to defend it. [[PSD applause.]] [[Rice from PCP MEP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u155	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u156	Mr President, Minister of Health : The size and complexity of some of the problems faced by the National Health Service over the years, such as de-investment, de-valorization of professionals or overvalued private sector vis-à-vis the SNS, sharpened by the previous government, do not delay. The option to value professionals, to internalize services, to maintain services by political option regardless of technical recommendation, are positive signs that indicate the intention to break with the political options of recent years, creating the conditions for an alternative policy also in health. It is the PCP contribution to this alternative that bothers the CDS rather than the patients or the problems of the SNS. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u157	However, we must not hide and ignore major problems that continue to persist. We can classify them on two levels: that of the professionals and that of the users. Professionals remain overloaded, particularly by reducing the size of the teams; the entry of professionals is not yet able to overcome the serious deficiencies. The use of service providers does not promote the appropriate involvement of professionals in the institutions and in the clinical process, which is necessary for correct action and rational use of resources. Users continue to be confronted with difficulties in access to health care. They continue to lack family physicians, attenuating problems, but still need a more definitive solution; the hours of operation of the units, particularly in primary health care, continue to place obstacles to access to health care, after a inadequate reduction of hours of operation promoted by the previous Government. All of this causes the waiting times for consultations and surgeries to continue very widespread, with damage to patients and their clinical situations. What is a problem for professionals, their lack, also has effects with the users and the health care they are provided to them — due to the exhaustion of professionals, their availability for the therapeutic relationship is reduced. It is necessary to continue to provide the SNS with adequate human resources for its operation; it is necessary to implement the political measures necessary for the appeal of clinicians to the most broken units, and for this reason the CFP has already presented its proposal for the placement of doctors; it is necessary to implement the family nurse, a promise not fulfilled by the previous Government, as a way to qualify the provision of health care. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u158	Do you agree, Minister, that these are the problems that continue to be lacking in attention and in response to them? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u159	For a second stage of answers, Mr Minister for Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u160	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, on ADSE, I believe that it will also be possible to generate a broad consensus in this House. There is no one in Portugal who does not understand the expectation that public service workers have about the subsystem created in 1963, at a time when there was no SNS, and what it represents for them all, and it would be a very large unwise and irresponsible political that now, just because yes, we decided to end up with a benefit that is well accepted and much desired by the workers themselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Deputy, what I can assure you, and through you to the Portuguese, is that the government wants to give autonomy to ADSE because the money in ADSE is not from the Government, it is not from the State, it is from the workers who pay it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u162	It has to do so safely, probably with a transitional period and cautioning that until there are conditions for mutualisation to take place, as is stated in our Government Programme, there is an intermediate solution where the State is present, probably even with a dual protection of health and finance, as the Court of Auditors recommends. That is the design of the proposal that we have in mind. We will be waiting on 30th of this month for the conclusions of the Committee of Experts' report to be delivered and we will certainly present our proposed legislative intervention in the short term. Mrs Fatima Ramos, it is good to know that the PSD, by its voice and by its person, has a passion relationship with the SNS. [[PS deputy Maria Antónia Almeida Santos' laughs.]] And so we also follow her. We accompany and believe that this value and emotional appreciation that it makes is, for us, a guarantee that also the PSD will be with us when, in the most difficult times, it is necessary to defend the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, I very much appreciated your intervention, but at some point—it does not lead to harm, for the esteem and respect I have for you and you know that I have—it seemed to me that conversation of the "sun in the air and rain in the napal". That is to say, on the one hand, we must quickly solve the problem of all workers, and it is fair that their perception, although in their government, as you know, they have been in a different situation for three years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, this concern about the existence of first-class and second-class workers was resolved, as you know, by judicial pressure at the end of 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u163	It's good to remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u164	But it is good that the honourable Member expresses her concern and we also do not want that to happen. Now, Mrs Deputy, « the sun in the air and rain in the napal» means doing everything running and hurrying, with the money that does not exist and with a budgetary irresponsibility that we will never practice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As a result, I repeat here what I have said at all the meetings of the Parliamentary Health Committee: in health, this measure adds expenditure, but it will add the minimum possible expenditure and, as Mr Prime Minister and Mr Finance said, it must be in the public administration as a whole that concerns about budgetary neutrality will be ensured. Mr. João Ramos, it is clear that the fundamental problem in a National Health Service of quality, close to the people and that it has, in fact, secured reconciliation with the citizens is to restore what is their human capital, which has been delapied over the last few years not only in quantity and value but in motivation. Many of the doctors who left the SNS went off for disenchantment, it wasn't for income, it was for bad treatment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u165	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u166	Now, the concern we have is to once again make the SNS an attractive work area so that young doctors who are finishing their specialty can come into the system and go to work within the country. That is our concern, and that is also what we will be presenting a very short-term legislative initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u167	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u168	Mr President, Minister of Health, the Portuguese Health Systems Observatory recently published a report noting the worsening inequalities, not only in access but also in the provision of health care, which have occurred in recent years. However, this situation, not being a surprise itself, taking into account the health policies of the previous government, allows us, however, to anticipate an reversal in this trend and to which the decision to move in value and in the universe of moderate rates will certainly contribute. But this is just one of the various investments that it is necessary to make to the policies followed by the previous government, which, as we know, has just focused its health policy on a deliberate effort to push the costs for the user and the closure of services throughout the country. And after all that the previous government has done to users and to health we still have to hear the CDS say that the users have never been as respected as they are today. Well, if you are, you are. Members of the CDS, we don't understand why the CDS is so upset when we talk in the last four years. In fact, there has been respect for users over the past four years, why is it so uncomfortable when we refer to the health policies of the previous government? It is not understood, « does not beat the boot with the partridge». Mr. Minister, we have been aware that there has been an indication from the head office of the Northern Lisbon Hospital in order to close more than 50 beds in the medical area at Hospital Pulido Valente. But on the other hand, the press has noted that this hospital would be available to receive 520 patients from other hospitals, to fight waiting lists in the National Health Service. Mr. Minister, are there plans for closures and transfers of services at Pulido Valente Hospital? If they are, what size are we talking about? Mr Minister, what is the point of the situation regarding the free access and choice of users to hospitals where they want to be treated? The number of users has increased, has not increased, is it already possible or not to make a balance of this measure? Another concern that the Greens want to bring to debate has to do with the Government's objective of ensuring a family doctor for all. in this sense, it was important to tell us that the government is developing to comply with this measure. Mr Minister, as you know, the regulatory entity has recently confirmed what was already suspected, i.e. that public-private partnerships in the field of health have not added anything in terms of quality of service. in this sense, I asked what you want to do in this matter. Moreover, since the last time Mr Minister was here in plenary, the Greens raised exactly the problem of the abuse of temporary work enterprises in the field of health, and I ask you, however, whether there has been any progress in countering this trend, which is very much cultivated, as we know, by the previous Government. Finally, non-conventional therapy professionals are in the arms with serious problems, especially with VAT. Being even more concerned with the Ministry of Finance, I would like to know whether the Ministry of Health has been in contact with the Ministry of Finance in order to address these serious problems that affect professionals of non-conventional therapies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u169	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Laura Monteiro Magalhães has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u170	Mr President, Minister of Health, last April, the PSD Parliamentary Group presented a draft resolution containing 59 recommendations to the Government, with a view to contributing to the sustainability of the National Health Service. 48 recommendations were adopted, but some of these proposals were rejected in a completely incomprehensible way. There are some examples: they have led to the strengthening of the fight against fraud in the National Health Service. Why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u171	Does the left feel that fraud should not be combated? Give an explanation, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. But we don't stay here. The left also led the PSD's proposal to establish the user's freedom of choice for healthcare providers and health services. This lead can only mean, for the left-wing parties, that there is fear of people's freedom of choice of what is best for them, and, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is contradictory. It is contradictory because you are against freedom of choice but are in favour of freedom of movement which has recently been instituted by this government. This issue is important. It is important because, at the time when the left-wing parliamentary majority reduces working capacity—and I am talking about 35 hours—the government announced yesterday to ban the repatriation of patients waiting for more than six months to be operated in other hospitals, even if they are agreed with the State. This measure will clearly reflect the increase in patient waiting lists.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u173	This isn't a detail. Despite some Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just a detail, it's not a detail. This refers to 200 000 patients who are currently in the National Health Service waiting for surgery. These people are hostage to a government that does not believe in society, does not believe in freedom, wants to control and dominate everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u175	Mr Minister, after what you said yesterday in the Health Committee, you have to ensure in this House that this prohibition will in no case lead to an increase in time and the number of users on a waiting list for surgery. But you must also ensure, Mr Minister, that your decision will not entail an increase in public expenditure compared with what the State would spend on rerouting, if there were the same redirection. This, of course, is if your idea, Minister, is not to cut at the expense of the state at the expense of our patients. I ask you, Minister, to be clear in your reply at least once. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u176	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u177	Mr President, Mrs Laura Magalhães, allow me to reply first.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u178	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u179	In view of this call for clarity, I would like to make an effort to improve. I had the conviction that I had some degree of clarity, but by the way, I won't have that much. Madam Member, first of all, we're going to the 200 000 users on waiting lists. Every country in the world has waiting lists. The stock of the list is 200 000 and people who need to be operated are fortunately smaller. Secondly, Mrs Deputy, yesterday—it is recorded in the Health Committee—I said: 'The ban on going out will only have one limit, which is to prove that the rights of the government are being violated because the public hospital is not responding. At no time will the patients be harmed by this. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, the honourable Member is concerned about the costs and comes to tell me that the privates make it cheaper? What's going to be cheaper? Is it the private discount or is it to have public blocks closing at noon, with installation costs and with the degradation of operating conditions? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Let's see if we understand each other, Your Honor. On efficiency, perhaps Mrs Cecilia Meireles can help explain, but there are no two types of efficiency, there is only one: she exists or does not exist, Mrs Meireles. [[PSD protests.]] Finally, with regard to the guarantee, which you ask me to give here, that no patient will be harmed, because, Madam Member, today you have with this government what we call Transparency Portal. You can go there every day. It's all published there. By the way, the ladies. Journalists can also consult. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the question of freedom of choice, Mrs Deputies, the freedom of choice to go to the private sector, in fact, we do not approve it at this time, because first of all we have to guarantee the sustainability of the SNS and, secondly, the greatest freedom we have to give the Portuguese is to have access to the consultation of a family doctor, because you have left 1, 2 million Portuguese without a family doctor and that freedom is alibiated. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So don't talk about freedom of choice when in your government there were 1, 2 million Portuguese without a family doctor. Mr. José Luís Ferreira...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u180	What about before? In 2009? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u181	You had a family doctor for everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u182	Mrs. Member, at the end of the year, we're talking. And you'll see that the conversation will be very pleasant! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I confirm the intention of a revitalization plan of the Pulido Valente Hospital, which does not go through the closure of beds but instead replaces some acute beds with integrated and palliative continuous care beds. The Hospital Pulido Valente will turn into the Park of Health Clean Valente and will, as a whole, have an outpatient surgery unit, which will respond to such 520 cases as Mr.Deputy mentioned here, will have 78 integrated and palliative continuous care beds and will have available for the strategic reserve of the city of Lisbon, in winter, 160 beds. As for the issue of PPPs, I say what I have always said here and in the hearings of the Parliamentary Committee on Health. The Government Programme is clear: we must wait for the studies that are being carried out; of legal and contractual obligation, there is an important study that will have to be done by the UTAP ( Technical Unit for Project Monitoring ) within the Ministry of Finance, and it will be in accordance with this study that the Government will make a political decision, supported by a decision that will have to be of a technical, economic and financial nature. As far as service providers are concerned, I have repeated that the situation reached is unsustainable. It will not be worth it in this summer period that we will be taking legislative initiatives that would call into question the provision of services, but I assure you that next year, in the next budget, initiatives will be taken that will restore the normality of the teams, with people from within the institutions, in which companies will only be complementary and will serve to meet only point needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u183	Let's move on to the intervention stage. Mrs. Joana Mortagua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u184	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a situation that has intrigued us. It's just that for four years, the CDS didn't want to know about the health of public servants.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u185	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u186	How much, I wanted to treat them with health, but that is another matter. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u187	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u188	I never wanted to know about the health of public servants and now appears, in the words of Mr. Parliamentary Leader of the CDS, when he presented this inquiry and also here by the voice of Mrs. Anne Rita Bessa, with great concern not for the health of public officials but for the health subsystem of public officials, ADSE, and their sustainability. Now, the public officials' health subsystem, as Mr. Minister well said, and the CDS bench was bored with the head, is paid by public officials, it is money from public officials. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa quoted two documents. He forgot to mention the Court of Auditors'report, which tells us a few things about the sustainability of ADSE. He tells us several, but one of them is that there were several measures to mask public accounts made by the previous government that decapitalized ADSE, which damaged ADSE, on account of the money of public officials. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u189	Now, everyone knows that you have used the surpluses of ADSE, i.e. the salaries of the public service to mask the public accounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u190	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u191	Everyone knows that in Madeira there is a 30 million hole in which ADSE was decapitalized to pay state expenses. Everyone knows you've never been worried about moving, introducing transparency...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u192	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u193	... or improving the management of ADSE, while they were in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u194	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u195	Everyone knows that you have refused to give supervisory, control and intervention powers to workers' representatives, but it is the workers who actually pay ADSE. This is the context. It is common to say that the text outside the context is only pretext. I translate: the text is the sudden concern of the CDS with the sustainability of ADSE ; the context is four years of decapitalization of ADSE and use of this money to mask public accounts. After all, what will be the pretext? Is this just a pretext to turn this money from public servants to private? What concerns us is precisely the pretext. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u196	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u197	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members : We recognize that the current government has taken some positive steps in building solutions that tend to strengthen the National Health Service. We note the openness to a gradual implementation of 35 hours of work in health services, promoting acquired labour rights; the reduction of moderate rates, giving citizens greater access to the National Health Service; the possibility of payment to 100% of extraordinary hours of doctors in the next State Budget, dignitying the medical class affects the public service; and the removal of processed food goods with high sugar content, fat and salt from hospitals and health centers, thus serving as a public example for new consumption habits. Note also the strengthening by the Directorate-General of Health of the importance of a food transition with the two guidelines manuals for a vegetarian diet. All these steps are positive, but insufficient and palliative. Palliative because we react to the consequences and do not preemptively act on the causes that lead to a large number of citizens making use of the National Health Service. For the NAP, it is essential to invest in education and prevention. We recall that in Portugal one in four deaths in 2013 were due to cancer, a proportion that reaches more than two in three (40%) in people under 65 years of age. More: about 40% of the Portuguese population between 20 and 79 years of age has diabetes or intermediate hyperglycaemia, which corresponds to some surprising 3, 1 million individuals. We know that these implications are closely linked to our eating habits. We can no longer close our eyes to these scourges, we must not avoid talking about conscious changes in our consumption. Also the non-conventional therapies, which have already been discussed today and which have not received a response from Mr. Minister, have come to assert themselves as an alternative or complement to conventional medicine and a relevant element for the practice of health care for the vast majority of the population. It is therefore essential to create and implement government policies that guarantee Portuguese access to these practices in the public health service and that solutions are found for the numerous failures in legislation that prevent the functional exercise of these professions, in particular with the amendment of the Health Bases Act, to facilitate the access and practice of the seven disciplines that have been provided for since 2003 in the Portuguese law. Mr. Minister of Health, it is on this subject that I would like to have your comment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u198	For an intervention, Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u199	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The CDS Parliamentary Group presents us today with this appeal to the Government, at a time which coincides virtually with the end of 1. the Legislative Session and with the first 7 months of this Government. It is therefore an excellent opportunity for us to make a balance sheet of the performance of the Ministry of Health. We do so with great pleasure and with the pride of supporting the Government that has taken the measures that have so far been discussed. We have not come here to make a declaration of love for the SNS, but we have come here for a debate in which we give evidence of the effort the Socialist Party has always made over the years, in addition to being the creator of the SNS, and that this government continues to do in defense of the public service. Let us remember that the Socialist Party has entered into its Government Programme as a priority « to defend the SNS and promote health ». in fact, it was urgent that measures should be adopted quickly inverting the direction that the National Health Service was taking. We have inherited a pre-break situation of many services. The former Government, by a right-wing majority, followed a policy of austerity which went far beyond the agreement with international partners. As an example, let us remember the pharmacy sector, where they cut EUR 323 million — 6, 5 times more than was agreed with the troika — of the 500 million we signed. of the options of the previous majority, we all know two clear brands: on the one hand, the weakening of the public service in favour of the private sector and on the other hand, the increase of social inequalities, making it difficult to access services to the most vulnerable layers of the population. These are not opinions or claims of the Socialist Party. They are derived from data from exempt, external entities such as the National Institute of Statistics and the Portuguese Observatory of Health Systems. According to the National Institute of Statistics, I do not want to weigh, but I cannot but recall some numbers here — between 2010 and 2014 the following happened: in terms of emergency care, in the public sector there were fewer than 500 000 and, on the other hand, in private service there were more than 200 000 ; in the same period 2000 beds in the public sector were closed and, at the same time, 700 new beds in the private sector opened; in large and medium-sized surgeries less 33 500 in the public sector and more 25 000 in the private sector; in the boarding less than 52 000 in the public sector and more 8000 in the private sector and complementary diagnostic acts were less than 2 million in the public sector and more than 1, 5 million in the private sector. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The former government was unable to leave its ideological agenda and, with this, seriously weakened the National Health Service ( SNS ). [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore important to defend the SNS and promote health and equity in access to services. According to the 2016 Spring Report, the Portuguese Observatory of Health Systems, « these social inequalities in recent years... », in health, «... have been perpetuated and aggravated ». Therefore, in view of this framework, the Government could not delay, and it did not delay, in adopting measures which, quickly and despite the financial constraints we all know, would allow to reverse the course of policies. He put the citizen back in the center of the system and resumed the ideological matrix, maintaining the National Health Service as a service accessible to all, regardless of their social or economic condition. in these seven years, the Government, supported by the left-wing majority, has already adopted measures that clearly resume this direction: It reduced the moderate rates by 24 %; it reintroduced the exemption from the payment of fees for special groups, such as blood donors; it created the National Health Council, provided from the law of bases but never implemented, allowing the participation of the associations of patients, professionals and local authorities. in the hospital area, introduced the principle of free access, but notice, Mrs. Members, it is not the principle of freedom of choice between public and private, that is what the right-wing majority wanted to approve in the previous legislature and that we did not approve, is the principle of freedom of choice within the National Health Service — that is the difference, that is the ideological difference that separates us — and always according to the guidance of your family doctor. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He took measures to allow for the return of retired doctors and accelerated the process of entering the new doctors, all of which converged towards the goal of giving greater coverage of family doctors to Portuguese, but the gentlemen, although they promised to give doctors to all, left more than 1 million Portuguese without a family doctor. In addition, it created an ambitious transformation of the concept of hospital, linking it to knowledge, creating the academic centers and the National Council of Clinical Academic Centers, which is chaired by the illustrious Professor Sobrinho Simões. It established the national network of hospital reference centres. Yesterday, a new form of collaboration between hospitals was approved. Affiliation protocols were signed that would allow the movement of professionals between hospitals, strengthening more deprived areas and also shortening waiting time, such as in the means of diagnosis. In addition, the contract of hiring new nurses was streamlined. We know that there are 900 nurses in competition, who cannot be hired, thanks to a poorly planned contest, badly designed by the previous government and that we are trying to solve, so that finally 900 nurses can enter the National Health Service. We strengthened the national network of continued care, providing for the area of mental health and pediatric health. We know that the CDS has always defended the creation of the palliative care network, but it is true that this government is, for the first time, opening beds, but not only, it is also creating responses to the home proximity to people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] It is not to be forgotten that, for the first time tomorrow, an unprecedented experience will be opened on the Iberian Peninsula in response to the needs of palliative care. So tomorrow, it is with pride that we will be at the inauguration of a unit, The Kastelo, that you do not like to hear to speak repeatedly, but you will have to get used to it, because there are many good news to give. This is an initiative of civil society, which we will follow. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We will follow through a door that has been published today and that allows for the first time the government to finance the operation of those beds, that the children stay there, regardless of whether or not they can pay the private, because that is what distinguishes us. What the Government is following up on this network is to have financed resources for the first time and given the possibility of signing protocols, as is the case in the beds which you now want to open, but did not leave any budget provision to conclude the agreements. We are now doing so in units like those of Melgaço, which you have not opened, but we will open. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is obviously a lot more to do, lack of human resources, lack of doctors and nurses. Seven months have ended, we are aware that many difficulties are still to be overcome. The government has not yet reached all the desired goals, but, through the steps given, by the knowledge shown by the ministerial team and by the capacity for dialogue, we are sure that, at the end of the legislature, we will all be able to ensure the continuity of a National Health Service of quality, the same for all, that does not distinguish the citizen by his economic and financial condition. We, the left benches, have done this and we challenge the CDS and PSD to join us, because this is really a national goal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u201	For one last intervention, you have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all still remember everything the previous government has done in the field of health. We all bear in mind the scale of the weakening and fragility caused by the previous government in the SNS. Portugal has passed from 13. or to 20. the, in an international ranking comparing the health systems of 35 countries and of nothing earlier to evoke the financial crisis, because this same study concludes that health care in Europe improved in this period, despite the financial crisis and austerity measures. But in the case of Portugal, health has not improved and has not improved, above all, in the chapter on accessibility to health care, especially in waiting times for consultation of non-emergency specialists and surgeries. It did not improve at the level of the response, because the previous government spent four years closing health services and in addition there was a contracting policy that failed to meet needs in the public sector. And even after what happened in the winter of last year, with the burst of urgency to gain alarming concerns, it didn't even move the previous government, which, insensitive to what was going on and indifferent to the future consequences, continued on its way to weakening the SNS. And now we continue to lead to the consequences of so much irresponsibility of the previous government — which has done no more than fattening the private market in the field of health — which has closed health services and has made it very difficult for Portuguese to access health care. Regarding access to health care we recorded changes to the value and universe of moderate rates, which means that users are seeing their restrictions on access to health care diminished. But we also want to record the fact that this government has halted the process of closure of health services, including those that the previous government was preparing to close after the elections, as was the case with the Vila Poca de Aguiar Health Centre, and that the current government has prevented them from closing. And yet there is much to do and there is a long way to go. There is much to do not only with regard to access to health care but also in improving the service provided and strengthening the National Health Service. And there is much to do because it was also a lot that the previous government destroyed at the level of the National Health Service and in access to health care by the Portuguese. [[PSD protests.]] That is what the former Government, the PSD and the CDS did much to harm users. That was a lot! [[PCP applause.]] [[It was a lot, it was!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u203	Mr Miguel Santos has just signed up for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We spoke here this afternoon of love, and the Minister even took the opportunity to gloss a bit, to play a little with the term. Let me confess to you, Minister, that it is not a statement of love but an acknowledgement that, from this bench, there is no particular feeling of admiration for you. [[They're traitorous passions!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u205	But for the Minister not to get out of here wrong, I will tell him that I suspect that of those benches, BE and PCP, there is no great love for you either. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u206	What's in issue here is a wedding for convenience! It's just out of interest, it's not out of love! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u207	We're clear! [[PSD applause.]] Left Block and PCP ask you half-hearted questions, because they are "married" with you and with your government for convenience, for interest, to share power,... [[Protests from BE and PCP Members.]] ...and the Minister always makes a very politically correct and very skilled speech, as he professionally has shown today. Always worried about the image... In fact, I will confess to you that, recently, a health leader, who also played with me — but I think with a real background — said to me: « Go out any line about this health unit in the newspaper des Beiras or in another local regional newspaper and there is Mr. Minister calling me, worried». So always worried about your image. And indeed, in terms of content and substance, Mr Minister, you are the stereotype of the socialist minister, because what we have seen is above all promises, intentions, announcements, declarations of intent, but everything is postponed and I will give you examples, Minister. Look, with regard to the incentives for the mobility of doctors, which you mentioned in your first visit to the Health Committee yesterday, what did you say? He's studying. Six months ago! About 35 hours, what I have seen today, I confess, was the Minister and those benches deal with the subject with a slight atrociousness, and I'm afraid this is going to go very badly. In fact, I can tell you that there are currently health centres that are no longer conducting consultations for July, and they do not do so until they have the reorganization of shifts and work to ensure that these consultations are carried out. [[It's true!]] [[Tell me who they are!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u208	We still hear here today the radical left, the communist left, the Leninist left, the Stalinist left talking about temporary work. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Mr Minister, is it true or is it a lie that the hiring of services outside the SNS decreased by more than 50% from 2010 to 2014? Mr Minister, without further contracts, which you do not have, you have no contract, without being able to overcome extraordinary work, what do you think will happen to this not end very badly? You will increase the hiring of services, as it is obvious,... [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u209	... which is not chaos for this. Therefore, it is exactly the opposite of what those benches, their convenience connuentes, affirm. The redefinition of the age of doctors for the emergency service was the Minister who mentioned it, no one asked him. Where is he? Will you always do that? What are we going to do? They spend months and keep studying... You, such a well-prepared person, are still in the student's degree, because you are still studying the measures, which you are now going to take as Minister. You see? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mr. Minister, as an undercover political agent, a leading political agent who was for four years, spoke of disinvestment of hospitals, but in his budget, investment in hospitals goes down. What are we in? You see nothing hits right? That everything doesn't go through a politically correct speech and that then there's nothing else behind it? What about the increase in the payment of the extraordinary work of doctors, which Mr. Minister mentioned yesterday, are you studying? No, it's for 2017! Only for 2017! The Health 24 Senior line is closed. It was Mr. Minister who closed it in January. Maybe for 2017, because with this, he didn't commit either. But, Minister, what is truly worrying is this centralist and statisticizing vision that that left has and that the PS did not have, but that you are realising.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u210	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u211	Let me give you an example. The Assembly of the Republic adopted a resolution on 18 May, with the votes of its spouses for convenience, which defends the integration of SNS hospitals into the public administrative sector within two years. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u212	What does the Minister have to say about this? This means the eradication of the business sector of the State. To be fulfilled what these gentlemen have approved and that the Minister will not be responsible for realising, this is absolutely grotesque and means a 30-year backwardness and means the eradication of the state business sector. Now, ladies and gentlemen, for convenience, in view of this, what has Mr. Minister done? I will tell you: yesterday, in the Health Committee, you announced that you will open the Algarve rehabilitation centre. Do you know how? As an EPE, business entity of the state! You see this doesn't hit anything right! You see this doesn't hit anything right? Have you ever seen the lack of consistency that exists, in fact, in this measure? On centralism, Mr. Minister, I will show you the Order No. 45 / 2016 that is not signed by you, but by your Secretary of State, Manuel Delgado. according to this office, any hospital facility, any unit that wants to make a expense above 25 000 € has to request permission to protect. In other words, if we are faced with a surgical intervention in which a prosthesis needs to be acquired, protection must be granted. Therefore, we are faced with an absolutely centralist view that removes autonomy from hospitals, health centres and that, frankly, Mr Minister, nothing good wishes. You know why? Because the time will come when your politically correct speech will not be enough. And this will be a bad time for you, but it will be, essentially, bad for the country, because you go out and you will have to come to correct the evictions you are practicing. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u213	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members have already noticed that the concerns of the CDS-PP, but also now the PSD, with Portuguese users or health are zero! The only concern of CDS-PP and PSD is how they discuss health issues by attacking the PCP. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But in the PCP, we do not do as the CDS-PP, nor the PSD, and we do not use the health of Portuguese as a political-party guerrilla weapon. [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u215	For us, the health of Portuguese is a serious concern and it is seriously that we deal with these problems. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We don't do it with the lightness of these parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u216	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u217	Although we are not in the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u218	Oh, no? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u219	... and if we do not make decisions from the Ministry of Health, we have done more in these months for the health of Portuguese than the CDS-PP and PSD have done in the last four years. [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u221	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u222	For example, while the CDS-PP increased the moderate rates, we have already made a decisive contribution to reduce them. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This is just one of the many differences between the PCP, the CDS-PP and the PSD that attack us to attack, too, the health rights. The PCP has always defended the right to health and SNS from all attacks of the PSD and CDS-PP. [[PCP applause.]] The CDS-PP and PSD now talk so much about the concerns with health professionals, but they're not the ones that worry you, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u223	You don't defend them now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u224	to the Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS-PP and PSD, which is concerned about the return of the rights they have stolen over the past four years. [[PCP applause.]] And health workers should know this and be aware, precisely, that your concern is not genuine. [[PSD protests.]] The CFP really appreciates the progress we have already made, but it believes that further progress is needed. Measures must be taken to remove all barriers that still persist and prevent users from accessing health care. It is necessary to focus on primary and hospital health care users and to ensure their quality and full coverage of the national territory. It is imperative to use the existing installed capacity in the SNS and put an end to the policy followed by successive governments to transfer the provision of health care from the SNS to the large economic groups operating in the sector. In fact, it is necessary to hire the professionals who need it. It is necessary to create conditions for its establishment in areas lacking. It is necessary to eliminate all forms of precariousness and the use of the hiring of temporary workers. SNS needs to have professionals motivated and valued. But when we present these proposals, PSD and CDS-PP vote against them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u225	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u226	Measures should be taken to prevent health professionals from having to emigrate, because they do not find themselves here in perspective to develop their activity. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In short, it is necessary to go further in the defence, strengthening and valuing measures of the SNS, guaranteeing the right to health of all citizens, which can however only find full expression in the context and as a result of a left-wing patriotic policy based on the enhancement of public services and the social functions of the State. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u227	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u229	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know it's St. John's Eve, but it's not time to start the rockets. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u230	Mr President, I shall continue as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we understand the acidity with which the PSD and the CDS-PP appeared in this debate because they are unable to continue their programme of destruction of the National Health Service. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] But look on the positive side: it's good news for the National Health Service that they can't continue your program, because what's seen over the last four and a half years is that PSD and CDS-PP don't marry SNS. It is not possible to reconcile the two things!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u232	That's a funny way to say shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u233	Maybe that's why they ran away to the questions! I'm sure that's why! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] But let's get to the answers. What did you do at moderate rates? They doubled. They've increased more than 100 %. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] What were the consequences? About 9 % of the consultations and 15 % of the emergencies were not carried out and 5 % of diagnostic examinations were to be carried out due to lack of money. They increased inequalities in health and access. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] We asked the question about what was the balance for professionals. The honourable Member knows what the balance is, but of course, has upset the issue. The balance was the loss of 4400 professionals in the National Health Service over the last four years. They used the National Health Service for what? To improve the health of Portuguese? Don't! For private finance. The increase in waiting lists occurred for surgeries in recent years and happened, while checks were passed to private to perform the surgery that the public should do.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u234	What now? I was growing up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u235	Those numbers are on the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u236	There was an increase in the use of conventionals, but we never heard anything about public-private partnerships.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u237	What now?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u238	Why? Is it because they finance 40% of José de Mello Saúde's activity? Is that why we never heard anything about public-private partnerships? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions that you have not wanted to answer and the facts you have not wanted to answer should be closed to the CDS-PP and the PSD and look to the future. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We need to bet on disease prevention and health promotion and therefore we believe that we need to have a national strategy that articulates with the ground, with the municipalities to do so to promote health and prevent the disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u239	Hallelujah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u240	It is necessary to ensure that people have ease of access to health, so there is a need to extend the exemptions of moderate rates to chronic patients, particularly those who spend a lot on treatment and examinations. It is necessary to ensure a family doctor to all people, which the right has not clearly achieved and that in health centers, there are valences such as psychology, dental health and ophthalmology accessible to all people. How it is necessary to ensure that diagnostic examinations are possible in these sites and hospitals and that people do not need to be pushed to private laboratories. It is necessary to take advantage of the capacity installed in the SNS, to dignify and qualify the work of the workers of the SNS, and to that end it is necessary to free resources by combating incomes that have greatly increased during the PSD / CDS-PP government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u241	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I spoke only because I heard again here — which, in fact, demonstrates how uncomfortable this debate has been — the following words: « You have stolen».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u243	Maybe they offered...!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u244	I'd like to make it clear, first, that I'm a good person and that nobody here has ever stolen anything! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u247	Secondly, it would be important for the honourable Member to be able to explain to the SNS patients and users who will have less than 200 000 hours of nursing care in the next week and what their health care will be like.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u248	Listen to the people!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u249	Because that, yes, is stealing the truth and the explanations to people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u250	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u251	Then, yes, I could use your lexicon. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u252	We shall now move on to the closing stage of this debate. For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u253	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : We would like to make this request to the Government for the importance that the theme of health has on a daily basis of Portuguese people and because the CDS-PP values what is central and relevant to our citizens, perhaps even in dissonance with the media attention that these themes receive. We have done so as a balance of this first half of governance, responsibly, as a way of portraying the true reality of Portuguese health, because there are clear signs of concern. Yes, there are clear signs of concern, with many promises far from reality. Whatever positive measures we have already taken, we do not resign from our role as supervisors of government action. We have also made this call because we have already launched a challenge to the Minister on the availability of a health pact and because we understand, in harmony with many others, that it is essential to build stability and consensus in this area, to extend horizons and to build the future of Portuguese people. After what we have heard here, the CDS-PP reaffirms that this debate has been fully justified, although we can also say that many of our concerns remain and that many of our doubts have not disappeared. What will be the real bill of 35 hours in health? We have left here, Minister, with no clear answers. How will this measure be operational, without prejudice to the quality of care, without being at the expense of increasing the deficit or delays in payments, with old bad-memorial revenues leading us to a period of financial assistance that required heavy sacrifices to the Portuguese? We have said it many times and it is not too much to repeat: the Minister is being kidnapped, captured by the volume of billing of the 35-hour application which prevents him from carrying out kind measures, which he continues to announce, which implies increased production and increased costs. The Minister makes promises that he is not in a position to come true. Let us see if this is not: how and when will the promises for primary health care be fulfilled? How many Portuguese are actually currently without a family doctor? We do not refer to those whom the previous government found in 2009 and which, at the moment, it is not worth remembering, by the way! How many family health units will actually open up, in the face of the promises that it takes to come true in the field? What about the promises in continuous care, Minister? How will the resolution of the waiting lists of thousands of Portuguese be effectively operationalized and when, I repeat, when, Minister, will the mental health responses be effectively implemented? On ADSE, it is necessary to recognize that there are numerous questions, requiring protection a more detailed, consistent, serious and responsible response, being of course the CDS fully committed to solutions in this matter, far from the « malabarics», as Francisco Louçã would say, which the Left Block here made on the subject. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u254	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : We have made the debate centered on the National Health Service, a greater value that we defend as an essential factor of national social cohesion, the National Health Service whose sustainability has been threatened and it is essential to ensure, in order not to compromise the access of all Portuguese to health. But we have also been thinking, without any ideological prejudice, in the national health system, about the value of the valuable contribution of the social and private sector, a logic of rigor and transparency, of desirable capillary, in agreement, if Mr Minister is remembered and we believe that yes, with what he proposed a few years ago, when referring to the importance of the system's capillary in his book Three Health Looks. You'll probably remember that a few years ago this was what I was defending. We are not, unlike other benches, attacked by ideological blindness or some strange silence pact. We therefore welcome the recent progress in the area of the empowerment of the national palliative care network, which, in fact, Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, did not begin now, and we value this empowerment in a dignified matter for humanization of health care and for the lives of Portuguese people and that the CDS is proud to have brought to the political agenda. We also value the option of free choice for hospital consultations, which Mr Minister has recently implemented. Certainly, and it is not redundant to say that, more consensus will be viable and we are available to achieve them, so the government and the banks that support it are also engaged in this process. Materials such as the greatest bet on preventing and reducing the burden of disease; the strengthening of proximity care and the community, such as the enhancement of the human resources of the National Health Service, or the reduction of the extraordinary work of professionals, certainly deserve the extended involvement of all banks and the government. The consensus in this strategic area demands, and that is what the CDS wanted to do when bringing this House, in recent weeks, constructive proposals that meet some of the greatest challenges of current Portuguese society, the breakdown of birth and the increase in longevity and the number of people with chronic diseases. They were proposed as part of the promotion of birth, where, unfortunately and we do not want to forget, we did not have a responsible, constructive opposition that would respond to the importance of this matter and were proposed which were plunged by the majority who supported the government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u255	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u256	I am concluding, Mr. President. We have made proposals in the context of the greater dissemination of the vital will, the deepening of training in geriatrics and palliative care, the improvement of support for caregivers, proposals, all of them, in the context of health for which we are now awaiting that, in committee, oxalá, it is possible to establish a long parliamentary consensus.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u257	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u258	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. This debate was positive and fully justified and demonstrated that the CDS looks at the health of Portuguese with the relevance it has in its daily life, but also with concern,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u259	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u260	... with commitment and responsibility. In conclusion, Mr Minister, in fact the CDS, with democratic humility, does not abdicate from participating in this debate and we thank you for your sympathetic comment on our stay in the health debates, but we must put the truth back:...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u261	You really have to conclude now, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u262	... Mr Minister, we should not welcome a debate and a defense that we have always made and where we never left. It is the people who move us, it is for the dignity of the Portuguese that in the baptisms, with realism,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u263	Mrs Deputy, you are exceeding all possible limits, you must even conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u264	... with values, with rigor and transparency, with no unrealistic promises and with confidence looking at the challenges that the future will bring us. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u265	To close the debate, on behalf of the Government, Mr Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, firstly, to health the Parliamentary Group of the CDS for the opportunity and content of the interpellation it has made to the Government, so different in the quality of other interventions, not recalling for politics or marriage consulting between political agents and Azedume, which, in politics, is always bad advisor. The CDS presented here a number of proposals and ideas which, of course, differ greatly from our own reading as a government, but we are sure, Mrs. Members, which is possible, with the CDS, to talk about health around the Constitution of the Republic and in terms of an idea of consensus that defends the social values of the social state. What may be more difficult is to agree with those who do not see the reconciliation of Portuguese with the State and with the country as good and do not see the establishment of a mechanism for reconciliation of Portuguese with the National Health Service as positive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is clear that for those who are blind by Azedum nothing that could have been done, but what the country says and what we feel in the country is that the Portuguese people trust in the policies of the current government, the professionals trust in the policies of the current government and that, Mr and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not take us a minute from what our sense of doing, strategically, what is important to do for the country. Clearly, in politics there is a difference between humility and arrogance. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u267	on our part they will never see arrogance, they will see the humility of recognizing when we fail, but they will also see the ability to recognize what is well done by the Portuguese, in what results from our political action. And our political action is very simple. It translates into having a systemic view of the Portuguese health system, of the National Health Service, which is based on three essential pillars: improving access, improving quality and improving the efficiency of health care in Portugal, recovering the confidence of Portuguese in the National Health Service, but also of its professionals; recovering human capital within the National Health Service ; strengthening the power of the citizen, promoting the availability, access, comfort, speed and humanization of services. We have very firm commitments. First of all, the commitment to economic and financial rigour and sustainability. It is true that a first semester, a first semester very demanding, very difficult, but it gives us confidence that the budget implementation will be assured, in a framework where we are sure that at the end of this year we will have the greatest coverage of family doctors from the Portuguese population that there has ever been memories in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is done without screaming, it is done with work, it is done with confidence, it is done in dialogue with the professionals, it is done in dialogue with the unions. It is probably disturbing that the Socialist Party has been able, over these months, of the difference in the health sector, to establish a constructive dialogue with the parties on its left, which, for us, are not even more radical than other parties who are sitting in this Chamber. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They are democratic parties, which were also elected by the Portuguese and which have established with us a capacity for dialogue and work, recognizing at every moment that we think differently about many things and we are able to implement different policies. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to convey to you the confidence that the Government Programme will be fully implemented, line-by-line, and it will not be because of the political debate that we will focus on decisions of intention or value, for trying to have some memory lapses that are convenient enough that we will no longer do what has been ensured for the Portuguese: more response in the National Health Service, more quality response, less closures and more alignment with what is the concern of the local communities. We do not forget the last few years, we do not ignore the economic and financial difficulties that the country has gone through, and that is why we make the exercise of our policy in a framework of strict budgetary requirements and we do not let ourselves be deceived by the siren chants that say that what will happen will happen in the disaster or misfortune. We are well aware of our responsibility to the country and to the Portuguese. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This was a good debate, a debate that allowed us to state the differences between conservative radicalism, a closed reading of what is the National Health Service and its relationship with citizens, and a strategy of progressive reformism, reformism, as Mr. President of the Republic said, incrementally, doing so safely, calmly and calmly. We are sure that a year from now the Portuguese will be aware that government policy is the right policy and we will always be available to all parliamentary groups starting with the CDS-PP, to talk about this great consensus that we all want for Portugal, which is the consensus to enforce the Constitution of the Republic in respect of its Article 64. the, the protection of the health of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u268	This concludes item 2 of the agenda, the Government's appeal on health policies, the authorship of the CDS-PP. I thank the Minister of Health and all the members of the Government here and all Members of this House. We now turn to point 3 of the agenda, with no time allocated, which is the presentation of motions for resolutions Nos 9 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves for accession the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Room Service for Fishing Ships, STCW-F Convention adopted in London on 7 July 1995 and 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Intercalar Economic Partnership Agreement between the Ivory Coast, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Abidjan on 26 November 2008 and Brussels on 22 January 2009. Since there are no time allocated to this agenda item and there is no record to be read, we will proceed to the vote. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 199 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Members, Luís Montenegro and José Silvano, PSD, Pedro Soares, BE and Bruno Dias, PCP, making 203 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u269	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u270	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u271	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u272	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u273	Mr President, in the vote script distributed by the Bureau yesterday, there was a vote on the draft deliberations presented by the PSD and CDS-PP parliamentary groups for two external and independent audits to the General Deposit Box and BANIF. In the meantime, a new script has been distributed, from which this vote has been withdrawn. I would like to ask you, Mr President, what happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u274	What happened, Mr, is very simple: the initiative that you referred to was presented yesterday on 22 and the President of the Assembly of the Republic in accordance with Rule 125. the Rules of Procedure, by analogy with the other initiatives, has 48 hours to inform the author of his decision of admission or rejection, which I will do within 48 hours of the deadline. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u275	Mr President, while respecting your legal invocation, I must also tell you that there was a script containing a vote, and if that script was prepared according to all the rules and parliamentary habit, for the script to have been changed there is a decision and instruction, which is that of Mr President, within his power...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u276	Sir, can I explain to you...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u277	Let me finish, Mr. President, if I may. This instruction by Mr President is a decision, such as any decision by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, or whether it is the instruction to change the script, it is a decision and it is reprehensible for the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u278	No, it's not a decision. You were at the Leaders' Conference where this was discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u279	Mr President, the PSD wants to appeal to the plenary of that decision, presenting the grounds for that appeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u280	Poor figure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u281	Mr President, you are not right, because the fact that there was a script that was prepared without the initiative having officially entered and had been read by the President or the Secretary of the Bureau of the Republic, makes this previous script completely void. Therefore, there is no recourse to a script which in practice did not exist, since the initiative you have delivered has not yet been validated by the President of the House of the Republic, and I do not know if it will be, given the debate that took place today at the Conference of Leaders, as you know well. No decision can be taken that did not exist. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u282	The President himself said at the Conference of Leaders, and now he has said it again, which gave instructions for this vote to be withdrawn, with the argument he has and which defends that the initiative has not been admitted. But there is an instruction and there is a decision, Mr President. I understand that Mr President does not want to vote, but allow me, then, to tell him the following: we understand that today contains a succession of events...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u283	This is no longer an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings. I therefore ask the honourable Member to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u284	Mr. President, I would like to conclude. If Mr. President wants to, I can ask him to convert...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u285	But we are not going to make today's balance sheet at this stage of work. We are in the middle of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u286	If Mr President does not accept the request for a vote, then I can turn this into an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings. Let me do it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u287	An interpellation is what you're doing. I think you've already finished the scope of your inquiry. If you insist that there is a vote on the non-acceptance of your request, I shall vote on the fact that the Bureau does not believe that this must happen. The Bureau does not accept your request and is therefore available to vote on the Bureau's decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u288	All right, Mr. President. So, if Mr President takes that decision, we consider ourselves to be notified and we want to make that request, but we want to do so, as with regard to any request, and we can base it on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u289	No, there's no basis. We are at a stage of vote. Let's vote, which is what you asked for. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u290	Mr President, with all due respect, we can disagree with each other's political initiatives. In democracy, disagreement manifests...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u291	Mr President, I ask you, then, to be very brief and synthetic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u292	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u293	And then we proceed to the vote on the President's position.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u294	All right, Mr. President. The PSD believes that today's course is regrettable for parliamentary democracy. That is why he calls for the plenary to take a decision in the eyes of all Portuguese people on the decisions which the majority would like to impose on this Parliament. These are two serious decisions: one, to wish to postpone, but to avoid a parliamentary committee of inquiry to the CGD ; another, to prevent external and truly independent audits of the General Deposit Box situation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u295	The tow, afflicted, the government came, this afternoon, after this proposal from the PSD and the CDS, saying that it will make a request to an administration that does not exist to make a...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u296	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. It is entering the substance of the themes and that is not what is done in the regimental figure it uses.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u297	I will finish, Mr. President. As you said, the government will make an application to an administration that does not exist to make an audit « caseirinha »,... [[PS and PCP protests.]] ... and what we understand is that the real clarification, the need for public interest, the protection of total transparency that guarantees confidence in the General Deposit Box...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u298	Mr President, you have already been able to create a parliamentary incident. I'm asking you to finish. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests, hitting hands on the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u299	You're unbelievable! You're an antidemocrat!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u300	He's not in charge!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u301	Mr President, I would kindly conclude this point and say: Mr President, what is at stake is too important and too serious. 'Who must not, fear not' and we do not realize why the government fears a truly independent scrutiny and wants to subject this Parliament to an exercise of having only information produced in a domestic way, by an administration that does not even exist. For us, the path is complementary and compatible: an inquiry to Box and an independent external audit. "He who should not, does not fear! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from PS, BE, PCP and The Greens, beating hands on the tops of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u302	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies. Mr. João Oliveira is asking for the floor but I think it would be inappropriate to extend this incident. A vote was requested here on a decision by the Bureau. There is this right and I therefore believe that we should not prolong this incident and that we should proceed to the vote on the Bureau position. But if Mr. João Oliveira insists, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u303	Mr. President, I insist on clarifying something. It is clear to everyone that the intention of the PSD throughout this day, including at the time of the vote, is to destabilize the functioning of the Assembly of the Republic from procedural incidents... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...that the PSD itself creates to create political facts...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u304	Just a moment, Mr. João Oliveira. So if you were given 2 minutes to the PSD and if you insist on talking, you also have 2 minutes to do so. And then the other sides, if they wish, speak before the vote on the request. [[It can't be!]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u305	Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u306	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau whether or not the two-minute time provided for by the Rules of Procedure is used.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u307	You're right. The time is only to submit the request. Therefore, the time is only PSD. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u308	I therefore ask Mr João Oliveira to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u309	Mr President, I would like to ask a question about what we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u310	I can explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u311	The PSD resolved to create an incident, and created it, but did not make any demands on whatever it was.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u312	Mr President, we shall vote on a request made by the PSD calling into question the Bureau's decision not to have put in this new script the draft deliberation which appeared in the first script when it had not even been admitted by the President. This was the request made. And there will be no more interventions. We're going to vote on the PSD request that I just identified. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the votes, as planned, starting with vote No 103/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — I regret the death of Mr Fernando Barbosa Gonçalves ( PSD ). Mr Duarte Pacheco will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last June 6 in Santo Tirso, 71 years old, Honorary Fernando Barbosa Gonçalves. He served as a deputy elected by the Electoral Circle of the Port in the Constituent Assembly and, although he was not directly elected, had the mission to replace Francisco Sá Carneiro. This fact, coupled with its deep democratic profile and generosity for the cause of the implementation of democracy in Portugal, undoubtedly justifies the fact that the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret and expresses its heartfelt condolences to the family ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u314	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 104 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Despite the death of the Tauromáquic knight Master David Manuel Godinho Ribeiro Teles ( CDS-PP ). Mrs. Secretary Idália Serrão is going to take the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died on June 20, in the Heritage of the Tower, the Tauromáquic knight David Manuel Godinho Ribeiro Telles, 88 years old. Patriarch of the most well-known families of Tauromachia, in Portugal, David Ribeiro Telles was born on November 11, 1927 and obtained enormous notoriety, having taken this national tradition beyond-border and beyond-sea. He took the alternative on May 18, 1958, in the Small Camp, in Lisbon, having as patron Alberto Luís Lopes. Since then, and even leaving the arenas, he has worked in the most diverse squares in the world. He was the father of the knights João Ribeiro Telles, Antonio Ribeiro Telles and Manuel Ribeiro Telles and grandfather of the knights also Manuel Ribeiro Telles Bastos and João Ribeiro Telles Jr. From his Heritage of the Tower, in Coruche, Master David Ribeiro Telles, as he was affectionately named, taught, besides his sons and grandchildren, knights of different generations. In 1947, he took responsibility for the livestock initiated by his paternal grandfather, Joaquim Ribeiro Telles, with the iron Ribeiro Telles, in whose selection he always engaged. He founded the Val Sorraia livestock in 1970 and was still forced into the Santarém Forged Group. He was an outstanding horse breeder and also a businessman, who owned the bull market in Vila Viçosa. In 1991 he received from the Ministry of Culture the Medal of Cultural Merit and, on 3 May 1999, the President of the Republic, Jorge Sampaio, distinguished him as Grand Officer of the Order of the Child D. Henrique. The Tauromachy lost one of its most prominent figures, but its legacy will be eternal. It is therefore with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, indicates its death by conveying the most painful grief to its family and friends».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u316	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with abstentions from BE, The Greens, the PAN and 3 PS Members (António Cardoso, Inês Lamego, Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u317	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u318	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u319	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will present a written statement of vote on this last vote today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u320	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u321	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u322	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u323	Mr President, the Left Block Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u324	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u325	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u326	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u327	Mr President, it is to announce that I will also present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u328	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u329	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u330	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u331	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u332	Be registered. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on vote No 105 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Greetings by the World Refugee Day ( PS, PSD, CDS-PP and BE ), which will be read by the Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « World Refugee Day has been celebrated since 2001, the year in which 50 was celebrated. the anniversary of the Convention on the Status of Refugees. UNHCR's numbers ( United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ) on the global phenomenon well reveal the scale of the problem and the extent of the humanitarian catastrophe that persists in time and that extends in space: every minute, eight people are forced to leave everything behind and flee to war, persecution and terror. Every day, about 42,500 people become refugees. of the total number of refugees in the world — over 65 million in 2015 — 46% are children, many of them orphans. It is worth recalling these data and taking this opportunity to strengthen our desire to act, on every possible front, to combat this scourge. The depth of the causes that give rise to mass displacements cannot give rise to the feeling of impotence. Our conviction to act must be firm, especially when thousands of people seek refuge in European soil. In 2015 more than 1 million people reached the back of Europe. Only in 2016 have more than 200 000 arrived, and nearly 3000 people died along the way. We cannot ignore the numbers, the suffering and our duty of solidarity, which is based on the values that we value the most and which support the European civilizational model. Unfortunately, at the same time as one of the greatest humanitarian scourges since World War II, we have observed the spread of myths, populist rhetorics and xenophobics that oppose values of solidarity, tolerance, acceptance of the most fragile, with the duty to safeguard the security of our territory and our populations. The dignity of the human person is what moves us to defend and secure our territory, such as the duty to welcome and support those who flee from suffering. There is a long way to go as far as the set of responses needed to this problem at European level are concerned. These answers are not limited to individual action by each country, nor to one-dimensional action, since the causes are profound and complex and must be combated both in the European territory itself and in external action. The ineffectiveness of European policies requires a paradigm shift. Contributing to a serious response implies recognizing that the response must be joint and humanitarian. on World Refugee Day we must remember the courage, strength and resistance that refugees show every day and demonstrate our commitment to collaborate in finding solutions. Thus, under the applicable regulations and constitutional provisions, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the World Refugee Day, reaffirming its values of solidarity and defence of human dignity and its commitment to be part of a joint solution to this humanitarian catastrophe. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u334	We shall then proceed to the vote on this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 384 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Morocco ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote on resolution No 9 / XIII ( 1 ) in a comprehensive vote. ( a ) — Approves for accession the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Room Service for Fishing Ships, STCW-F Convention adopted in London on 7 July 1995. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Intercalar Economic Partnership Agreement between Côte d'Ivoire on the one hand and the European Community and its Member States on the other, signed in Abidjan on 26 November 2008 and Brussels on 22 January 2009. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 316 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — by combating precariousness in summer ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PS deputy Helena Roseta.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 334 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by amending the Harbour Work Legal Regime ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PS deputy Helena Roseta.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u335	Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary will take note of an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u336	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Organic Unit 1 of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Office of Penafiel, Case No. 312 / 14.6BEPF, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs. Joana Lima ( PS ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u337	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u338	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u339	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u340	Mr President, it is to ask the Bureau, if possible, about tomorrow's work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u341	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u342	Mr President, I wanted to make a proposal. We have not yet been able to ensure that the agenda of the Prime Minister is changed so that he can be present at the plenary tomorrow. In any case, in order not to be dependent on this, we make available the presence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in tomorrow's debate. It would not be even the first time: on 17 October 2014 the preparatory debate of the European Council was held with the presence of the Secretary of State for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u343	That was in the Commission!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u344	No, no! It was in plenary! This situation is not extraordinary. I repeat : on 17 October 2014 the preparatory debate of the European Council on the European Council of 23 and 24 October took place with the presence of the Secretary of State for European Affairs. We are therefore making available the presence of Mr Foreign Minister to hold the debate tomorrow. Since the precedent has already been opened, we ask that we also respond to this request so that we can make the preparatory debate of the European Council as much as the PSD wishes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u345	Mrs. Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Therefore only the PSD can respond to this request from the Secretary of State. Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, the PSD has already had an opportunity this morning at the Conference of Leaders — and repeated the arguments this afternoon at the plenary — to show complete openness so that the debate can be held. We believe that the wrong for the country is that the debate is not being held, given the importance of the next week's European Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u347	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u348	But, Mr President, the law is very clear. And what the law says is that the debate is with Mr Prime Minister, who is also going to represent the interests of the Portuguese State in the European Council. If there has ever been — and we do not have this record — a debate of this nature in the previous Parliament without the presence of the Prime Minister, there is one thing I want to say to you: it was certainly not because the Prime Minister then exchanged this parliamentary debate to participate in any party. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD informs the Bureau that it will give full notice of compliance with the law and that the debate can be held tomorrow with the presence of the Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u349	The PSD position became very clear. Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u350	Mr. President, I think everyone knows, at least the Northern Members know - that the night of Saint John is the night of Saint John,... [[PSD protests.]] ...but tomorrow morning it's not about any of Saint John's parties. We ask for some seriousness in how we address these issues! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u351	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u352	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, we are doing everything possible to meet the PSD's desire, although we are not yet able to ensure that Mr. Prime Minister is present at the plenary tomorrow. [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Members do not know, but the debate was not marked. We are making an effort to ensure that Mr Prime Minister is present, which has been requested today, but we still do not have the ability to confirm. Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs is available. Furthermore, on 17 October 2014 Mr Prime Minister Passos Coelho was not present at the European Council debate either, but Mr Secretary of State for European Affairs. So if we really want to discuss the preparation of the European Council, there is will and willingness to do so. And it would not be even the first time that such a debate would not be held by the Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-23.u353	Mr Secretary of State, the position of the PSD has become clear, which only agrees to change the agenda if the Prime Minister is present in the debate of the European Council. As Mr Prime Minister's presence is not guaranteed, it remains for me to announce the agenda of tomorrow's agenda as planned. Thus, tomorrow, the plenary session will take place at 10 a.m. with the debate of Question No 5 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — On the balance sheet for the school year ( PSD ). Good afternoon to all. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 48 minutes.]]
