ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] First of all, I ask the Authorities to open the galleries. Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary of the Bureau, has the floor to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to the presentation of the projects of lein.o 132 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extension of the inspection competence of the Act ( Labour Conditions Authority ) in the civil service ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 133 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent programme to combat job insecurity in the Public Administration ( CFP ), which also falls to 10. the Commission, 134 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish the National Plan for Combating Labour Precurity and Illegal Contraction ( PCP ), which also falls to 10. the Commission, 135 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Combats precariousness by preventing the use of active public employment measures in order to meet the permanent needs of public services, businesses and other entities ( CFP ), which fall to 10. the Commission, and 136 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ( Legislature of Citizens ) ( CFP ), which falls to 1. the Commission. Parliamentary assessment No 12 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 4 / 2016 of 13 January establishing a public foundation with a private law regime called the University of Mininho ( PCP ). The draft resolutions 153 / XIII ( 1 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — Access to health care at the Midwest Hospital Centre Tejo ( PS ), 154 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government speed up the process in order to enable the implementation of the agricultural linkage of Moreira and Barroças and Taias, which has long been targeted by the population ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 155 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reintroduce the ban on hunting in the Sierra da Malcata Natural Reserve ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 156 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the restructuring of Madeira's debt, which is fundamental to canceling the financial asphyxiation that afflicts the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the municipalities ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 157 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of the secondary school of trucks in Lisbon ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 158 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the sanction system by indexing the value of fines to the sales volume of the commercial area as regards labelling, origin of food and lossful sales and by establishing a price observatory for pigmeat ( CDS-PP ) which is lower than 7. the Commission, 159 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a programme allowing the restructuring of the short-term credit of pig growers in the medium term, with two years of deficiency, and exempts producers of pig collection costs of animal carcasses ( SIRCA) for a period of 6 months, to reassess at the end of that period ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 160 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government exempt producers, spouses and workers in the pigmeat sector from payment to social security for a period of 6 months ( CDS-PP ), 161 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthening and extending the national vaccination programme ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 162 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government benefit from road accessibility to the Municipality of Barrancos ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 163 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Reposition of legality in the allocation of the special education allowance ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, 164 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prohibit hunting in the Sierra da Malcata Natural Reserve ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 165 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of tolls in the ex-SCUT section of A17 ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 166 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Removal of tolls in A28, A41 and A29 ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 167 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Extension of the Port metro line to Trofa, Gondomar and Vila d’ Este ( Vila Nova de Gaia ), which goes down to 6. the Commission. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to announce the results of the elections to external bodies that took place during the last plenary session. With regard to the election to the Internal Security Council, the following result was found: 199 Members voted, with 167 votes 'yes' recorded, 30 white votes and 2 votes null and void. Deputies Luís Maria de Barros Marques Guedes ( PSD ) and Alberto de Sousa Martins ( PS ). In the election to the Higher Information Council, the following result was found: 199 Members voted, with 158 votes « yes » recorded, 37 white votes and 4 null votes, and therefore elected, as effective members, Mrs Teresa de Andrade Loyal Coelho ( PSD ) and Mr Ascenso Luís Seixas Simões ( PS ) and, as alternate members, Mrs Teresa de Andrade Leal Coelho ( PSD ) and Mr Ascenso Luís Seixas Simões ( PS ). Deputies Hugo Alexandre Lopes Soares ( PSD ) and João Paulo de Loureiro Rebelo ( PS ). In the election for the Committee on Equality and Against Racial Discrimination, the following result was found: 199 Members voted, with 169 votes « yes » recorded, 22 white votes and 8 null votes, so they considered themselves elected as effective members, Monica Sofia do Amaral Pinto Ferro ( PSD ) and Elza Maria Henriques Deus Pais ( PS ) and, as alternate members, Angela Maria Pinheiro Branquinho Guerra ( PSD ) and José Maximiano de Albuquerque Almeida Leitão ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u3	Mrs. Members, let us, then, enter today's agenda, which is based on the joint assessment, in general, of the proposals of lein. 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2016, 12 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2016 and 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2016 - 2019. Mr Prime Minister, before giving you the floor to present these initiatives, I would like to congratulate you and the other members of the Government here present. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: The State budget is one of the most important tools of government action. This debate is therefore of great relevance and I hope that it will help to clarify and improve, throughout the parliamentary work, the proposal for a State Budget for 2016 presented here. This, as we know, is only the first budget of this legislature. But this is also the first budget, in many years, which fulfils the Constitution and which fulfils the commitment not to cut wages or pensions and not to increase taxes that the Government has promised not to increase. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] This is the budget which rests with the constitutional normality of respecting the autonomy of the autonomous regions and local authorities, the university autonomy, the payment of wages and pensions that are due, by complying with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and ending the state of continued exception, which every year threatened the income of workers and pensioners. For the first time in many years, the budgetary premiere of a new government is not marked by an increase in VAT or a further increase in IRS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u6	On the contrary, the word given is an honest word... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] I know they're not used to it! [[PS's laughter and applause.]] The word given is an honest word and, as promised, the overtax of the IRS is totally or partially eliminated and the VAT of the restoration is reduced. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fulfilling the Constitution and honouring electoral commitments should be so trivial that no reference should deserve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, after all these years of uncertainty, instability, insecurity in the lives of families and businesses, it is essential to overcome the lack of confidence by restoring a secure framework that stabilizes the expectations of economic operators. Trust has invaluable economic value that is based on legal certainty and predictability of economic policy. Thus, fulfilling the Constitution and honouring the electoral commitments is also essential to restore confidence, the first condition of the recovery of the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Trust requires stability. Of course, stability in government action, which this Budget reinforces, fulfilling the commitments made by the Socialist Party with the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party, and which are at the basis of the formation of the Government and which are expressed in our Legislative Programme. Stability also in commitments made within the framework of the euro, with the guarantee that we will turn to the austerity policy page, by continuing to reduce the deficit and start the reduction of public debt. This is a responsible budget, which creates conditions for economic growth and job creation, which strengthens social protection and ensures rigour in the consolidation of public finances. Reducing deficit and debt is a good governance option and it is not this option that defines the alternative between the current majority and the current opposition. What distinguishes us is the policies and measures we take to ensure budgetary consolidation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And here, yes, this Budget marks the change and makes the difference based on clear choices. We could, like others, maintain the overtax of the IRS by continuing to reduce IRC, but we prefer to reduce the IRS instead without increasing the IRC. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We could — as others would — not protect families from the increase in IMI, but we found it fairer to end the exemption from IMI real estate investment funds. We could propose — as others have done — a further increase in VAT on all products and services, but we have chosen only to increase special taxes on the consumption of certain products. We could even, as others have promised, have made a new annual cut of more than 600 million euros in paid pensions, but on the contrary we have opted for the replacement of income in social benefits, wages, pensions and the reduction of fiscal asphyxiation on the middle class. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, this is a responsible budget,... [[PSD protests.]] ... that talks with the European institutions, with the social partners, with the parliamentary parties, but it is a budget that makes choices and takes options. [[Wrong!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u7	This is a Budget that proves that there is always an alternative! [[It's bad!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u8	This is a budget that restores budgetary policy to the fatality of single thought and returns it to democratic debate and to the confrontation of alternatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I therefore hope that the opposition, which criticizes this Budget so much, will have the frontality here to present its alternative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We already know that they disagree with the increase in the ISP (Oil Product Tax), but we would like to know that tax would rise alternatively or in what expense they cut to avoid needing this recipe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It's just that the alternative we know them... [[PSD protests.]] I repeat: the alternative we know is the commitments they made in Brussels to keep the IRS supertax and cut over 600 million euros in paid pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In contrast to fatalists and the arrears of misery, this budget is proof that there is a responsible and dialogueal alternative, which, within the framework of the euro, fights for more growth, better employment and greater equality. This is a government committed to the European project and committed to our participation in the euro, without inconsequential bravery and without diminishing as students, before assuming ourselves, as we should always have been: partners in a loyal, frank and constructive manner. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have made the commitments necessary for ambitious targets to reduce nominal and structural deficits and to reduce public debt and we will do everything, in the demanding implementation of the Budget, to prevent risks and strengthen the confidence that we will achieve these targets. But also in this negotiation we made our choice: we did not cut investment, we did not cut wages, we did not cut pensions, nor did we increase taxation on these incomes — that is our choice! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I want to be clear: Budget is an essential instrument, but it has to be consistent with a model of sustainable development, based on qualification and not on impoverishment, which overcomes the prolonged economic stagnation in which we have lived, overcoming the structural blockades of our competitiveness, valuing culture, science, education, lifelong training, innovation, the modernization of the state and business fabric, energy efficiency and the reduction of inequalities. Yes, these are the structural reforms that we have to do, these are the structural reforms that are about to be done! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From the outset, we have assumed as the main objective of this Budget to contribute to the relaunch of the economy, both by increasing the income available to families and by creating conditions for the investment of companies. Only in this way will we grow, create jobs and sustainably consolidate our public finances. If we add up all the measures that restore family income and total EUR 1372 million and subtract the new tax revenues created, which make up EUR 600 million, the net balance for the benefit of families has an increase of more than EUR 700 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The increase in the income of families, which began with the increase in the minimum wage, with the replacement of wages in the public service, with the updating of pensions and with the reduction of the overtax, is also one of the main distinguishing marks of this Budget. After four years in which the available income of families has actually fallen 11 %, the set of measures proposed by the Government will for the first time allow a growth of 2, 5 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This growth is essential for families to improve savings levels or to support increased consumption in their income rather than in indebtedness. In this context, the measures to replace the value of the solidarity complement for the elderly and the reference value of the social income of insertion for a total of 440 000 Portuguese, as well as the increase of the first three steps of the family allowance, benefiting more than 1 million children. This is an effort that continues to reduce the rates of some essential services such as moderate rates in the National Health Service, which will already have a 24% reduction in 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] on the fiscal side, the choices made also show an investment in the policy of the last four years. The Portuguese will pay less taxes this year than they paid last year and will, above all, pay less taxes than the previous government had promised to the European Union in the Stability and Growth Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our priority was the redistribution of tax effort in a fairer way, by reducing taxes on labour and on direct taxes, which are the ones that weigh most on the budgets of families and businesses. We have chosen to increase some indirect taxes by saving VAT, which affects all consumers and affects all goods and services. The taxes that increase are — and only — special taxes, which are only paid by some, focusing only on tobacco, petroleum products, vehicles and consumer credit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a fairer option from a fiscal point of view and is consistent with health promotion policy, environmental policy to improve environmental sustainability and economic policy to disincentive imports and to curb the indebtedness of families and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The relaunching of the economy also requires strong and competitive companies. The State budget is accompanied by a set of measures already launched in these first months of governance with a view to creating better conditions for investment by companies. Among these measures, I stress the return of the Simplex, which is essential to reducing the cost of context; the establishment of the Enterprise Capitalisation Mission Unit, which is committed to solving the serious problem of indebtedness of our economy; and the launch of Plan 100, which has enabled the implementation of Community funds to be accelerated and which has already reached 80 million euros in these first 80 days of government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We want to go further in the relaunching of the economy, allowing for faster implementation of Community funds by local authorities, for the launch of the urban rehabilitation programme — essential to job creation — for the tax benefits for the transport of goods, so as not to exacerbate the costs of companies, for support for firms in difficulties with tax debts, and for the possibility of paying these debts to benefits without the requirement of personal guarantees from their partners. That is, we want to relaunch the economy by improving the income available to families and creating better conditions for the investment of companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State budget for 2016 shows, therefore, that it is possible to turn the page of austerity, comply with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, the commitments we have made with the Portuguese, the commitments we have made with the parliamentary majority, the commitments we have with the European Union and ensure, at the same time, a strict management that will reduce the deficit and public debt. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget returns the hope and trust of Portuguese in the future. This Budget shows that it is possible to live better in Portugal. We thus take the first step in the implementation of a programme that marks the change in direction and affirms a new vision for the country: a vision based on the ambition of having more growth, better employment and greater equality. [[P.S.'s applause, standing up, and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u9	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start a first round of requests for clarification, in which, as usual, the floor will be given to their respective leaders or the Members appointed to do so. Starting with the PSD, I give the floor to Mr Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, this is a bad state budget. It is bad from a technical point of view, it is bad from a political point of view, and it is bad from a social point of view. The Government and the parties that support it in this Parliament and who, as it has been seen well, by the tone and content of Mr. Prime Minister's intervention, have already entered the election campaign, have treated the process of drawing up the proposal for a State Budget as if this document were an electoral leaflet, a pamphlet with political propaganda, more focused on the survival of the Government, the Head of Government, than concerned with the interest of the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u11	Now, the lack of responsibility of the Socialist Party, accompanied by the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens Ecological Party, could only give nonsense, technical ashtray. And we watched this joke that there was an initial proposal, then a different outline of this initial proposal, then a Budget delivered to the Assembly different from the outline and then incorrect and incorrect mistakes, in an account that no one has ever accompanied. For an erratic government we have indeed a wrong budget! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u12	These are the words given that are relatively honest; they are changing, more or less, every day that passes. [[Protests of PS Members.]] But this budget, Mr Prime Minister, does not prevent errors on the political and social aspects either: it is unwise in the policy of return of income, creates various uncertainties and various risks, aggravates the fiscal situation of families and businesses. This is not a Friendly Budget of Portuguese families and companies,... [[PSD applause.]] ... and does not favor, on the contrary, the attraction to capture investment. This is also a socially unjust budget, in which all — I repeat, all — pay for the Government's stubbornness to the same extent. Those who have more income pay exactly the same as those who have less income. It is also Mr. Prime Minister, a bipolar budget or, as Mr. Minister for Finance has said — with remarkable honesty, it must be pointed out — is a budget that has already been everything and its opposite. It is bipolar with people: it gives one hand what takes away with the other; it wants growth and employment, but punishes companies with more taxes; it wants more investment, but it flees investors with reversals, with fiscal instability surrounding the life of companies. But it is, above all, a bipolar political budget, because we all know, in this House we all know — the Prime Minister, you know the government, you know the parties that support the government ( the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the PCP ) and you also know the opposition parties ( the PSD and the CDS-PP )... And you know what? You know this budget is not definitive! This is not the real State budget for 2016!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u14	Mr. Prime Minister may say he is, but we all know he isn't. Indeed, Mr Prime Minister, if this budget were realistic, if this budget were reliable, if this budget was credible, why are we already talking about complementary measures for this State budget from the first hour of its existence? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Is it or isn't it, Prime Minister? Was it or has it not been taken over by you and the Minister of Finance? It was almost appropriate to ask whether Mr. Prime Minister believes in this State budget, or whether he believed more in the budget outline, or whether before that, he still believed more in the initial proposal that brought here to the parliamentary debate at the beginning of the legislature. I know these questions are legitimate, but I also have to confess that they are rhetorical, as it is obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u15	Rhetoricals, I said well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u16	For a very simple reason: because it is unthinkable, it is even unthinkable for a Prime Minister to bring to Parliament a counterfect State budget. I don't want to believe that! I ask the question, but I believe that the answer is obvious: that Mr. Prime Minister actually believes in this State budget! But the parties that support the government and will vote in favour of this budget must also be convinced. And I also want to tell you that I believe in the conviction of the favourable vote of all the parties that support the government. Moreover, I believe it is also legitimate to say that you are not puppets of anyone, so you are free of your will and free to make your choices.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u17	There he is making insinuations!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u18	Do you also want to go to the PCP congress?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u19	I believe that these are the circumstances in which they present the State budget in which they believe. But, Prime Minister, this does not invalidate that this budget is in fact not a bad budget, a bipolar budget and a budget that does not amend! As the popular adage says, "what is born wrong, late or never right" — that is what will happen, I believe, to this State budget. Mr Prime Minister, it is you who, with your choices, must assume why and why of the governmental solution they have brought to the country, as you have just said. You have to tell the country why and why you are committed to undo everything that the country has been able to build over the past four years. [[PS protests.]] We do not blame ourselves, but we are very clear: the opportunity is yours! This is your chance! By the way, Mr Prime Minister, because I believe that this matter is also relevant from the budgetary point of view, I do not refuse to ask you the following: does the Prime Minister think it is appropriate that another debate on debt renegotiation should be placed on the table in this budgetary debate? In the internal and external context in which we live, do you think it is appropriate that we should be blocking this debate? What do you think, Prime Minister? Is our public debt sustainable? Do we need to renegotiate? Do you think that we will only put that doubt on the table as a reason to weaken us, even more so as to support and support the government's political position? Do you not think that this can affect the funding capacity of the State and companies? Don't you think this can affect the interest we pay for this funding? Do you not think that this can affect the attractiveness to the investment that we so much lack? Mr Prime Minister, I believe that this debate is a good opportunity to clarify the position of the Government, and in particular its position on this matter. But a State budget, we all know, is a forecast exercise — I know it all. And don't hide that we don't believe in your predictions! I know that you also believe little, but you will finally believe at least a little to make this State budget more viable. [[PSD applause.]] There is one thing I would also like to make clear to you, Prime Minister : Mr Foreign Minister, who is so excited at your side, and who will not stop talking about it either in the debate, or at the end - we will have the pleasure of hearing; since Mr Prime Minister usually does not answer all questions, unless he can fill this gap...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u20	You don't even remember what they were!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u21	But the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, in his representation last Saturday, that we in the PSD had no authority to talk about predictions. He said that we had a very great sin: that we had put 2, 7 % of the Product as a forecast of the deficit in 2015, but that the final result—it is not yet known—it seems to be the duma, two or three tenths above it, which is a great slaughter in our authority and in our public accounts curriculum. Well, Mr Prime Minister, I think it is necessary to have some discharge to say this, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs was a minister of a government — in which the Prime Minister was also a minister and who, after leaving, supported the Socialist Party as number two — who had a deficit forecast in 2009 of 2, 2 % — see well! — not to be fooled by two or three tenths: the final result was 10, 2 % of the product, Mr Minister and Mr Prime Minister! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] You really have a great authority — you do, sir! : it is the authority of the breakthrough! They are the champions of the budget and financial breakthrough in Portugal! [[PS protests.]] There is no doubt about that! It's an authority you have! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is bad for you to ignore that in 2011 when you left the government, the Portuguese deficit was about EUR 20 billion gross. And in 2015, whatever the result is, it will be less than EUR 5000 million. This was the downward trend in the deficit from 2011 to 2015. You are aware of this curriculum and this authority, Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] If there is any consensus that we should have—as this is also a word that is now so expensive to each other—it is a consensus on mathematics. I believe that numbers do not lie in this regard. Mr Prime Minister, to conclude by saying that we will be here to discuss this State budget, which is an interim State budget, is the interval between the initial version and the final version, which will be the plan b, which we look forward to knowing and which Mr Prime Minister is concerned to hide. But here we will be in this debate and here we will be ahead, too, to discuss this plan b. And here we will also be to see where this budget adventure is going to take us! It is that, Prime Minister, from 2011 to 2015, we left the recession and began to grow—we have already begun to grow in 2014 and 2015! —, we balanced the public accounts and we had the lowest deficit that there is memory,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u22	When? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u23	... we were lowering taxes and we were gradually restoring income, we were lowering both the IRS and the IRC and gradually restoring income.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u24	And increasing green taxation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u25	We were, indeed, doing so prudently, with credibility! [[PS and BE protests.]] I know it hurts, but listen, it's important. Above all, we have done so with respect for the effort and sacrifice that the Portuguese have made in recent years. What I wish is that you do not waste, you do not throw away the effort and sacrifice of so many Portuguese people, families and so many Portuguese companies! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u26	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been the case in these debates, when a Member exceeds his own time, the Bureau considers that this time will be cut off in the time allocated to his party. The Bureau therefore does not do so because it believes that this should remain at the discretion of the parliamentary groups. In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u27	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, allow me to start by praising your ability to sum up and also your consistency... This is, in fact, a budget that you cannot like, because this is an alternative budget that marks a change in the policy that you have supported and that you want to pursue. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] In fact, this budget has a main objective: to put an end to the sacrifices that you have imposed on the Portuguese over the past four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] You have to decide: or you think this is an austerity budget, because it increases taxes, or it is an unwise budget, because it increases income. What can't be said, in the same intervention at the same time, that he is reckless and austere! Either it's one thing or it's another! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I understand your pregnancy and the difficulty of choosing, because the difference between a radical and a moderate is that a moderate knows what balance is and a radical has no sense of balance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] That is why, Mr President, you can well say « social-democracy, always», because your social-democracy has been gone for a long time and has no further amendment or recovery capacity! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, assume that there are no alternatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u28	Everybody knows!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u29	It does not present alternatives because it does not want to assume what it means for itself to be prudent in the replacement of income. But I'll tell you what it would mean. [[PSD protests.]] It would mean that the overtax of IRS would continue to be paid by all Portuguese to the end of the legislature! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It would mean that the replacement of salaries imposed by the Constitutional Court would again not be met and that we would have a budget again to violate the Constitution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It would mean that the social income of insertion, the solidarity complement for the elderly and pensions would continue to be unrequited. Yes, your caution would be to continue to cut the income of families, the income of Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member is not putting forward proposals because he does not mean what was fair to you. For itself, what was fair was not to protect families in the increase in IMI to maintain the exemption of real estate investment funds in the payment of IMI. That, yes, was, for you, fiscal justice! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Mr. Deputies, I know you've made quite a gloss on the subject of mistakes. I must tell you that this government has not only turned the page of austerity, as it has also seen the page of arrogance not to recognize when it goes wrong. When this government is wrong, it shows and corrects the mistakes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u30	Mr Luís Montenegro, in this regard, recommended some caution to the PPD / PSD when commenting on the mistakes of others. Look, in the first budget that you presented in 2012 did not just present itself wrong, they completely replaced the text of the report and the text of the articulated after two insufficient corrections. PS applause. In 2013 honor was made to them, they have already improved: they have no longer replaced the articulate and have limited themselves to completely replacing the report, as the number of errors it contained. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2014, progress was no longer so great and they did the same again as in 2013 : they replaced the report, because it continued with so many errors that it had not been worth it and it was necessary to replace it in its entirety. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Sir, I don't want to be cruel...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u31	But it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u32	I do not want to be cruel, but again in the fourth year they had to completely replace the report, because in 2015 it continued to make mistakes and had to replace it in its entirety, Mr! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Luís Montenegro, and because I am not cruel, I do not remind you that, in four years, you presented 12 budgets, because not one year did you succeed in the first budget you presented. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u33	Mrs. Members of the Government, the observation I made recently regarding the time used by parliamentary groups also applies to government members : they can exceed the limits of their time in each response because it cuts in the overall government time. To request clarification, Mr. Carlos César has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, tomorrow we will have a vote with high political significance. For the first time in the Portuguese parliamentary history of constitutional governments, the parties to the left of the Socialist Party will vote in favour of a proposal for an annual State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As Mr. Prime Minister said almost two years ago, well, we defend that the concept of arc of governance with criteria of exclusion from the left to the left of the PS of its responsibilities could never be a factor of enrichment and involvement in our democracy. Let's break this historic blockade. But you also said that we would be a plural, open and supportive majority of political dialogue and social dialogue. I ask you therefore, Prime Minister, if you find a criterion of exclusion at the right of the political spectrum which is not imputable to it. It is that a party that, for its opposition, ceases to contribute or that fails to improve what it says is bad is a party that has disinterested itself from the fates of its own country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am no longer talking about mistakes, because Mr. Prime Minister has brought us the memory of this succession by the previous government. I am no longer talking about the four budgets of the State and the eight corrective budgets. However, in order to have only one idea of the previous government's volatility, it is enough to mention that it has presented a State budget in one month and a corrective budget immediately in the other. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, this assessment of the State budget is, understandably, beginning with a series of concerns and questions involving the direction and effects of budgetary implementation. Should we turn or not, though prudently, the page of austerity, to use the key phrase that has encouraged the political debate? In other words, Prime Minister, do we or do we not reverse the biased plan we were in and what would we be in if the PSD and PP were now in government and were fulfilling the commitments they made before Brussels this year? Mr Prime Minister, how would we be in matters such as the available income of families, the funds available to support the capitalisation and investment of companies, the direction of the tax burden, the replacement of social benefits or, even if still, the recovery of pensions which the PSD and PP had promised Brussels to pay in more than 600 million euros? [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, shall we see those pages or not? I have already told us that yes, but I ask: how does it equal the potential of these changes to the growth of our economy, which is absolutely relevant to our budget projections? Another question, Prime Minister : the right is always talking about negative heritages of a more remote past, of the time when the Socialist Party was government. So let us go to the inheritances and weaknesses that lead us to this budget year, mentioning three cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u35	The Azores!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u36	Mr President, there is no negative inheritance in the Azores. Only if you're talking about the Autonomous Region of Madeira! [[P.S.'s applause.]] So let's go to the inheritances. First of all, the deficits of the state's business sector and the public accounts are high, and the targets of its reduction have never been met by the previous government, contrary to what they anticipate, and they have left us under an excessive deficit procedure. The year 2016 will be the year with greater partnership charges in the payment of public-private partnerships,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u37	What the gentlemen have done!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u38	... despite the propaganda of the renegotiation contrary to the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The weight of debt will be tremendous, aggravated throughout the four years of the governance of the PSD and PP. Mr Prime Minister, the question I ask you is: how can we alleviate these obstacles and, above all, to what extent does each of them depend on national decisions or depend on European decisions? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, we are obviously conditioned by our capacity as members of the European Union and of the euro area, for good and for evil, which we assume and which the Socialist Party today supports. This is not a novelty, and that is what inevitably follows us and which limits our freedoms from the point of view of budget planning and which justifies the difficult negotiations which the Government has maintained with the European Commission in this regard. He's already talked about it, but we're talking about it again. Mr. Prime Minister, were you on your knees? I don't think so! But he certainly found there a genuflexory, where those who had arrived in the past prostrated themselves and left there only with what they were told. [[PS's laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u39	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u40	Mr President, Mr César, the right is excluded from the debate, or rather... I will correct to avoid being unfair: the PPD / PSD excludes from the debate because it is already ashamed of what it thinks and is still unable to think anything new about what it thought. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] In fact, this is really what is clear today about what is "passism". Passism is simply a new version of passadism, the inability to get rid of the past, to discuss the past and to look at the present or to propose anything for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u41	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to have the utmost tolerance, especially in order not to make the furniture pay. Mr. Prime Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. What the PPD/PSD wanted is for this budget to continue with what the PPD/PSD — I don't know if head-on-head, if eyes and knees on the ground — committed itself in Brussels and that we all remember well. And what did they commit to? They committed themselves to a new cut in pensions of EUR 600 million. And when they say that we are unwise in the replacement of income, it is because they wanted us to cut 600 million euros to pensioners, pensioners. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What they committed was to maintain the overtax of the IRS, it was that the cuts in the salaries of public servants were final cuts and, against the Constitution and the Constitutional Court, they continued not to be restored to whom it is due, which are the employees who have the right to receive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why the PPD/PSD does not present the proposals now nor does it show what it really wanted this Budget to be. And with this Budget it was possible to demonstrate that it is possible to turn, in fact, the page of austerity and improve the available income of families. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] Sir, do not insist on the insult! [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u43	Don't insist on insult! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget shows that it is in fact possible to turn the page of austerity and, as we have always said, comply with the criteria for our participation in the euro area. Is it a demanding budget? Yes, a demanding budget! But if we did not have confidence, if I did not trust the Minister for Finance, I was not here today presenting this budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I have no confidence in an act of faith. I have confidence based on what is proven evidence of economic data. What resulted from the brutal increase in taxes created by the PPD / PSD in the country? More austerity, less income, less investment, more unemployment and GDP going back about 20 years. This was the result of the PPD / PSD policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was risky not to reverse politics, because without changing policy we will not be able to achieve any other results. That is why, with caution, with responsibility and balance, we must turn this page, so as to ensure simultaneously the increase in family income, the improvement of the conditions for companies to invest and to be able, in a sustained way, to reduce deficit and reduce debt. That is the objective and that is what we will achieve with this Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u44	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins of the Block of the Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u45	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Left Block accounts for this State budget. It is the Budget of the Government of the Socialist Party, it is not the Budget of the Left Block, but it will be viable with our vote and we will not stand in the way when it comes to assuming responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u47	We are not accountable to the anonymous sources of Brussels nor are we accountable to the bosses outraged by the increase in the national minimum wage. No, today I give account of our vote to the greatest creditors of our trust, to those to whom the Members of the Left Block dedicate and will devote the greatest effort of this mandate: one million Portuguese unemployed, mostly without any support, one million people with lives suspended by the options of a wrong and unjust strategy, austerity. What will I answer today to an unemployed person who asks me why he supports the Left Block, for the first time, a State Budget of the Socialist Party? It is precisely for the unemployed that the answer is more difficult to give. One who lives one day on a day of shortages, who often survives below the poverty threshold does not find in this Budget a change that is enough. Even with the introduction, which we find possible, in the specialty, of improvements in social support — social unemployment allowance, family allowance, proposals from the PCP and the Left Block — even with automatic access to an enhanced social energy tariff, as provided for by the agreement between the Socialist Party and the Left Block, all this is still very little in the lives where so much is missing. Strong answers that should be for yesterday, such as the generalization of the social unemployment allowance to all unemployed and unemployed, require, as the Left Block has always said, courage for deeper transformations, such as debt renegotiation, political changes that the correlation of forces still does not allow. [[Congratulations from BE.]] This is therefore the first answer I will give to the unemployed who ask me why. If this State Budget allows some timid positive change is because an understanding with the parties to the left of the PS was possible. We have done this understanding in respect of our mandate, but we do not confuse it with our mandate. The Left Block did not place its main proposal in parentheses to defend the unemployed in this country: renegotiating the debt and releasing the resources necessary to support all those to whom austerity stole the job. My second answer to the unemployed in this country, those who are here and those who have had to emigrate is that this is a Budget that initiates the recovery of income from those who are less. In pensions, in wages, in combating precariousness this path may begin to bring oxygen to an economy that has suffocated austerity. There is no job in a country with the economy of trails, there is no creative or redistributive austerity and much less left. Austerity is to transfer income from work to capital and, therefore, from the country out. Recovering income from those who have less, from those who will never put their money on an offshore, but who will spend it here in what is most needed is the first step to break the hellish cycle of bankruptcy and job destruction. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Recovering income from those who work and worked all their lives is saving up and is therefore recovering jobs. Therefore, it is worth asking what the Right Budget would be for 2016. We know - it is the Budget that was registered in the stability plan that PSD and CDS delivered last year in Brussels,... [[It's just going to see!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u48	... an IMI budget that protected investment funds and which, between tax increases, cuts and freezings, withdrew to families more than EUR 2000 million. On the contrary, the budget we are now discussing goes another way. It is true that it is shy in the recovery of wages and pensions, which remain important problems of public procurement, health, education, culture and that we are very critical of the government's options in many of these matters. It is also true that there are few responses to whom the most urgent change is in place, but here is a majority of Members and Members with a clear commitment to the country: to restore employment and respect constitutional rights. It is in this direction that the State Budget goes for the first time in many, many years and, without false modesty, the Left Block is proud of its contribution to this path. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, we know that part of the income recovery strategy has been affected when the government dropped its proposal on the workers' TSU in Brussels, which would give some leave to wages that are so low that they do not pay IRS and will therefore not gain anything from the changes to the surcharge. These people cannot stay out of this State budget. Mr Prime Minister knows the Left Block proposals: strengthen social benefits for the most vulnerable layers and ensure that one million families with lower incomes have automatic access to the social energy tariff, requiring EDP to pay what is due. The question I'm going to leave is if we count on you on this path. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u49	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u50	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, thank you for your questions. The last four years have been devastating on the labour market. They were devastating in the destruction of jobs, they were devastating to the term resumed a cycle, interrupted in the mid-70s, of emigration and all this made the active population in Portugal significantly decrease among unemployed, discouraged and emigrants, which substantially reduced our growth potential. Today, the growth potential of the Portuguese economy is lower than we had four years ago, as a result of the devastation that the PPD/PSD policy had and produced in the labour market. This means that we have to reverse this policy in order to have different results. And that's what this Budget begins to do. This Budget starts turning the page so that we can have different results. Our priority is the relaunch of the economy, because without relaunching the economy we do not create jobs and the best response we are giving to each of the unemployed is that we have as a priority of our economic policy the creation of employment, employment and employment, because this is the essential answer that awaits every unemployed: a new job opportunity, a new opportunity to work and a new opportunity to perform personally. That must be our priority and that is the best answer. It is clear that this Budget contains a great effort to restore the income of families. Do it for all those who eliminate the overtax of the IRS; do it for many, composed of public servants and who had their salaries cut; do it for many for whom social benefits are absolutely essential and which are restored here. Unfortunately, this budget cannot respond to everyone and its dissatisfaction is also my dissatisfaction. That is why if we were in the last budget of this Parliament I would be very distressed here. So I am just distressed because we cannot respond to all needs, but I am confident that a political reorientation will produce new results and with growth and with job creation we will respond positively to those who ask us, who ask you how they ask me and ask how we will have new jobs, how I will ensure that our children will not have to continue to emigrate to get job opportunities and will find job opportunities in Portugal. How is it that who is discouraged will once again be motivated to return to the labour market and seek to find a job again? That is the answer we have to find, and that is why we have this policy. That is why we have this agreement, because without it there would be this government and without it there could be no political reorientation. We therefore have good reason to be proud of the step we have taken. We know it's hard. It is difficult, of course, because we do not think the same thing about many matters, and some of them are essential. But we have been able to set a good example of what democratic dialogue is, knowing how to respect each other's differences, but we also know how to build in common what we can do together. And what we are doing together in this Budget is already much more than we could do if we had not made the agreement we did and the right is still ruling. This will tell you the pensioners, to whom EUR 600 million has not been cut in pensions; that will tell you the public servants who see their return due; that will tell all those who receive social benefits today; that everyone who sees the tax burden relieved throughout this year will say. Do we have to do more? Yes, and that's why we not only have to run this Budget well, how to prepare and run well the next one, prepare and run well the 2018 one and prepare and run well the 2019 one. Then we will talk again, but for the time being, we must focus on this priority of running properly the budgets we have to implement. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u51	Calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u52	The honourable Member, because I have always informed you, knows that our negotiations in Brussels were not easy and that it was the negotiations necessary for this budget to be here today. It is true that we had to drop a measure that costs us particularly, as you know, that is the reduction of TSU for those who win less than 600 € per month. And you know that it cost no one more than us, because we went for months to defend against everything and against all, the reduction of TSU for the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u53	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u54	I am at least glad that, having not convinced many people, I have convinced you of the goodness of this measure. And you are right: being in the European Commission we would have had better results than not being in the European Commission. But there is one thing in which follow-up: in the specialty, and without budgetary impact, it will be possible to find measures that respond to those who have not responded to this measure. And the proposal presented by the Left Block seems perfectly acceptable to us: it has no negative budgetary impact and, on the contrary, I believe it will save the state some EUR 6 million, and that is why it is a good answer. And it is once again a good example of how it is possible, by dialogue, to find answers to the problems and, finding answers to the problems, to fulfill what has been said to be the mandate that we all have to fulfill, which is our mandate before the Portuguese. That is what we have to do, and that is what we will continue to do together. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u55	To request clarification on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u56	Mr President, Prime Minister, you like it or not, the truth is that we are discussing this Budget today after we have presented a outline which has been internally and externally scrapped, a State budget that was wrong, a mistake that was wrong and a mistake to the wrong precisely on the day when its Finance Minister in Brussels announced additional measures in relation to this Budget. That is, Mr. Prime Minister, after the outline, after the Budget, after the mistakes, all this can end in a amending budget already in April. Mr Prime Minister, it would be important that today, since it was not possible for 15 days ago, this should be clarified, since it is these facts that make this State budget without technical credibility and now also — with regard to 'the word given is an honest word' — without political authority. It has no technical credibility because it has been criticised by all—by the UTAO, by the Council of Public Finances, by European institutions, by socio-professional associations, by consultants, by financial rating agencies—all have called into question this State budget that we are now discussing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u57	Nor does it have political authority, because it represents the opposite of what the PS and those who support it have been saying not in the election campaign, not a year ago, but in the last month, Prime Minister. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u58	I'll remind you. António Costa, on 22 January 2016, said regarding the former Government : « The Portuguese Government's submission to austerity measures was contrary to the national interest and was purely ideological fanaticism ». It said António Costa, on 3 February 2016 : « The State budget is closed on the Portuguese side and will even turn the page of austerity ». Mr. Finance Minister is going to Brussels and what are you doing? Increases fuel tax, increases transaction tax in the Multibank, increases credit tax and affects families with children, in particular by removing the family quotient. Mr Prime Minister, if not, if the Budget does not have the tax attack and the increase in taxes and the tax burden you came here to say that you did not have, then, Mr Prime Minister, perhaps, still needs another wrong. It is that on page 68 of your Budget there was a tax revenue by 2015 of EUR 40 billion and this by 2016 is EUR 41 billion, i.e. plus EUR 1000 million of tax revenue. And you are still here saying that there is no increase in the tax burden on the Portuguese, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! Is this a new one wrong? [[CDS-PP applause.]] And perhaps this, Mr Prime Minister — page 68 and the mistake which, perhaps, will give way — justifies that, on 12 February, Mr Prime Minister has already said: 'We have been forced to increase taxes'. Mr. Prime Minister, it is appropriate to say, taking in your words, that either you gave up and surrendered, or, then, you are with ideological fanaticism, with what the previous government accused. [[CDS-PP applause.]] By analysing this Budget and simplifying, it is appropriate to say that it benefits those who do not have a car, those who do not have an account in the bank, those who do not make contracts because they do not pay seal taxes, those who do not use the Multibank, those who do not have children and now those who have a garden close to home because they will not buy products from the supermarket. Or do you believe that, since there is an increase in fuel, this increase will not be reflected in the increase in products, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! Do you think the families at home really believe that, Mr. Prime Minister? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u59	And don't smoke and don't drink!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u60	The socialist man, the man of his advice, is this: he has no car, he has no bank account, he does not use Multibank, he has no children and he has a garden at home. What a beautiful image of the socialist homo, Prime Minister! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[And don't smoke and don't drink!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u61	I'm told here by my colleagues who don't smoke.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u62	And don't drink!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u63	But that seems to me to be a good advice, Prime Minister. Let me tell you the following about smoking: as you know, smoking is a addiction and the poor also smoke—and they will also pay, Prime Minister. That is, not even the justice that you are talking about, of being the richest to pay the budget of the poorest, is going to meet the truth. But, Prime Minister, more serious than that is that this budget also increases inequality between the public and the private: 4 million Portuguese who work in private and who have been 40 hours will have to endure, for one matter — there is, yes! — ideological fanaticism, so that 15% can work 35 hours. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u64	It is also a Budget that reduces fiscal competitiveness, important to capture such investment, to create such jobs that you say you will create, but it does not say how. And, above all, Mr Prime Minister, it is a Budget that not only has not seen, as I have provided, the page of austerity, as you came back to a previous page, the page of risk, the page of Portugal at risk, which in 2011 the Portuguese « read», unfortunately—there are people in your government who can well explain how it happened. Therefore, Prime Minister, you may well speak of the past, well you can speak of what others would propose. We do not know what it would be — although we have clear ideas and we know that our path was different — a Budget of the State of the CDS and PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u65	You don't have to be a witch!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u66	But we know that this is your State Budget, it is the State Budget of the Left Block, it is the State Budget of the Portuguese Communist Party and it is the State Budget of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u67	No reduction in electricity VAT, but it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u68	You can well say that it is the fault of Europe and the former government, that it is independent institutions that criticize it, which is the economic context. But this is the budget that you have to defend, this budget, which I repeat today, we are discussing, at the same time as we are already talking about additional measures. I will therefore give you one more opportunity, Prime Minister, to respond in the Portuguese Parliament to the following: what are the additional measures? What are the measures in plan b that you are negotiating in Brussels? At least tell us whether they are intended to fall off the side of expenditure or on the side of revenue. This, yes, is of interest to the families who are listening to us; this is important for us to know that what we are discussing today will be the Budget which we shall be voting on in the overall final vote from one month to one month and, above all, the one that will be in force in April. It is that this is good for companies, it is good for families, to have fiscal stability and predictability. Mr Prime Minister has already been questioned here today and it has been about 15 days ago. It was good for him to finally answer, even if it was on video. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u69	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u70	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I see that anyone who wants to discuss the wrong is because he does not want to go to the discussion of the substance. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] But you'll understand you don't do him a favor. And I know that, after four years, with 12 Budgets and a massive dose of rectifications, you are already really addicted to Reforming Budgets and you are already looking forward to a new Reforming Budget. Let us « put the points ii » : first, this is a government which, like all governments that are part of the European Union, negotiates within the framework of the European Union and does not hide in the European Union to assume the budgets it presents. The honourable Member said well: this is my budget. This is a budget resulting from the commitments I make with the Portuguese, the commitments I make with the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens and the commitments I make with the European Commission. And at all these times, I have done it with freedom. It is that when we negotiate with the European Commission, the European Commission can impose limitations on the deficit with or without reason, it can concern itself and demand that there be safety margins. However, we can choose—and in this choice there is all the political difference! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u71	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u72	We choose to increase vehicle tax, we choose to increase tobacco tax, we choose to increase consumer credit tax, we finally choose to increase these taxes. Now your government has also chosen. But it did not choose to increase neither the tax on petroleum products, nor the tax on vehicles, nor the tax on tobacco. Do you know what your government has chosen to increase? He chose to increase the IRS, while maintaining the IRS supertax, he chose to cut more than 600 million euros in pensioners' pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, do you know why your government preferred to cut family income instead of cutting special taxes? For an ideological option: because his government believed, wrote, taught and taught by this world outside the doctrine of expansionist austerity, that the more impoverished we were, the more growth there would be. It was on the basis of this that you voted in 2012 for the Budget of the "great increase in taxes", that it was the Budget that would be so, so austere, that I wanted so much growth that today we would be at the forefront of Europe. What happened? What happened was that this budget actually ruined companies, ruined families, destroyed growth and what it led us to today was more debt than it existed in 2011. That was the result and balance sheet of your governance, Mr. That is why the choice is, in fact, ideology, the choice is, in fact, values. We chose to protect income, not to increase the tax burden on the middle class, to protect businesses, and what you did was simply cut pensions, cut wages and increase taxation on wages and pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member is concerned, and well, that the increase in the ISP is reflected in the transport of goods. That is why this budget also proposes a tax benefit for freight transport companies so that they can deduct costs by 120 % with fuel transport. That is what is actually proposed. Mr President, let me tell you this: as has already been explained several times by the Minister of Finance and as is stated in the Eurogroup statement, Portugal has not been required to present any additional measures now. It was required in 2015, was required in 2014, but was not required in 2016. What was required in 2016 was that we had alternative measures to be used if necessary. And what we have said is that they will not be necessary because budgetary implementation will prevent risks and increase the confidence that we will reduce the nominal deficit and the structural deficit and start the reduction of public debt. This is our goal, these are the goals that we will achieve. Finally, Mr President, on tobacco tax, I should like to say the following: smoking is effectively a habit. I, who suffer from this addiction, although I haven't caught a cigarette for 11 years -- I know it's a addiction I have for life -- I know it's a addiction. But when I think of vice, I never have to talk about poverty, then. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u73	To request clarification, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u74	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, at this beginning of the debate, the big question which is right here and which must be answered is simple: what budget would we be debating at this time if the majority of our people had not fought for four years and had not decided, with their vote, to change the composition of the Assembly of the Republic? [[PCP and PS applause.]] It would certainly be a different budget from the current one. It would be more a budget to exacerbate injustice and social inequalities. It would be a budget of painful continuity and sharp suffering for most Portuguese, as were all the budgets of the PSD government / CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u76	It would be a budget for more cuts in labour income and labour and social rights. It would be a penalizing budget for low and medium income levels, as always were the budgets of the PSD government and the CDS. It would be a further budget for prolonging the ruinous path that led to the accelerated economic backwardness of the country and its impoverishment. If this were to be a Budget of the PSD/CDS Government initiative, we would be here discussing not the increase in social benefits, not the increase or increase in family allowance, social income of insertion, the complement of solidarity for the elderly or the defrosting of retirement pensions, but to discuss — and the Portuguese to be deplored — new cuts of more than 600 million euros in social benefits, reforms and pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u77	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u78	Instead of the refund, already in 2016, of the extortional salaries, we would be analyzing the proposal of the PSD and the CDS for maintenance of cuts until 2019, if however it did not happen to him the same as the planned refund measure of the overtax of the IRS, which no one has seen returned, despite the announcements and propaganda of the PSD / CDS government. [[PCP applause.]] Instead of tax relief measures on the work that the 2016 Budget welcomes, whether the introduction of tax deductions by children or ascendants within IRS, the updating of the scale table, the expansion of deficit expenditure or the reduction of the overtax of IRS and its elimination in 2017, we would be here discussing the tax promotion of economic groups, as was the intention of the PSD/CDS government, in particular through further reductions in IRC, making tax policy even more unbalanced and unfair.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u80	Instead of looking at the reduction of working hours for 35 hours, improving working conditions, seeking solutions to combat precariousness, particularly in the Public Administration, as this budget proposal points out, we would be hearing here the false and repeated arguments of the PSD/CDS Government on competitiveness and the false rigidity of the labour market to justify new proposals to attack labour law in the Public and private sector, to justify freezing the national minimum wage, maintaining holidays withdrawal, new forms of flexibility, increasing working hours and more standards to facilitate redundancies. Instead of measures to support families in difficulty such as those that are being consecrated, such as the protection of family housing in the case of penhoras or the introduction of the safeguard clause of the IMI, we would continue to face the social insensitivity prevailing in recent years and that has led thousands of families to despair, to financial suffocation, to complete ruin, with thousands of disposers of the houses where they live. If the budget proposal continued to be a government of the PSD / CDS, what we would be discussing here, and the Portuguese to be sorry, were new and more drastic cuts in the social functions of the State and in public services essential to the people and not taking steps to contain their degradation, especially in education and health, with new measures to protect the right to health, with the hiring of more doctors and the reduction of moderate rates. Are there insufficient measures, which are beyond what is necessary and to what extent? They are, of course! But they are enough to make clear the embarrassment and the despair of those who, like the PSD and the CDS, waged in the perpetuation of their policies would not say austerity, because it is a sober word that does not correspond to the truth, but rather to exploitation and impoverishment by the great capital. [[Congrats from the PCP and from the PS Member Alexandre Quintanilla.]] So here's the source of PSD's anger, CDS's and the powerful. This is a budget that bothers the Saudiists of the politics of the burned land and the concentration of wealth, of the "cost of what costs", of the inevitability, of those who want to bend those who have less and favor the concentration of wealth in the hands of a few. This is not our Budget and contains measures that we do not follow, but it is a Budget with signs of reversal on the path of social and civilizational regression that was under way. It is a budget that can and should go further in promoting the development of the country and in improving the living conditions of our people if it is free from European taxes and other external constraints, in particular those resulting from the debt and monopoly capital charges that dominate the country. Mr. Prime Minister, with the defeat of PSD and CDS and the construction of a new political solution... [[PSD protests.]] ... we said, then, that most Portuguese would not demand everything at once, but would not accept that if something had changed so that, essentially, it would continue in the same way. What many Portuguese aspire to know is whether there will be answers to many of the problems which persist and which, in our view, is fair and urgent. These include the problems of the inadmissibility of pension recovery, the progressive freeness of school textbooks, the improvement of social unemployment allowance, the reduction of the maximum rate of IMI, the support and fiscal stimulus to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We are at the forefront of the debate in the specialty. It's still time to find solutions. on our part, we will do everything possible to find answers to these and other problems and to give expression to the aspirations and struggle of the Portuguese for a better life, in Portugal of progress. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u81	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u82	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, drew attention to the budget which a right-wing government would have presented here and, with this characterization, gave the best response to the importance of the Socialist Party, the Communist Party Portuguese, the Greens Ecological Party and the Left Block, in this House, a majority who allowed to form a government that was not right-wing and to present this Budget, which is not the right-wing budget. I would therefore like to commend the CFP for this constructive position that it also had in the formation of this majority, in the construction of this budget and that it will certainly have in the debate in the field of expertise. We are not going to anticipate the debate in the field now, but I recognize in the CFP proposals positive measures to respond to the problems for which we have to find answers and make an effort to accommodate them as far as possible in this budget. We will certainly have this debate. However, what really marks this Budget is a turning point on a path that has been pursued relentlessly over the past four years and which has not only led to the destruction of employment, the increase of poverty, but also to the destruction of thousands of businesses, a new emigrant cycle and also to a huge increase in our public debt. That is why we have to reverse this policy. We and the CFP do not have the same view of our participation in the euro area, and that is what we understand. We know what each one thinks and therefore we know what the limits of each one are. What is very clear to us is that we want to meet the commitments within the euro area, and we will do them. But, as we commit ourselves, we will do so without sacrificing wages and pensions and increasing taxation on wages and pensions. And, in this Budget, we could prove that this is possible, as, indeed, it had already been possible before. If this negotiation was not done before it was because the former government wanted to use the troika, it wanted to use the European Commission, it wanted to use European restrictions to implement a policy of impoverishment because it believes that it is because of the impoverishment that we gain competitiveness. None of us have forgotten to tell the PPD/PSD leader that the great bitterness that leads to the previous legislation was not sufficiently reduced the costs of work, because it is those who believe that it is with the impoverishment that we will again be competitive, not realizing that it is, on the contrary, investing in education, in vocational training, in culture, in science, in innovation, in the modernization of businesses and the state, that we will be able to be once again competitive and that many of those who emigrate do - because they do not comply with a future that is offered to them by low wages and precariousness. Therefore, combating precariousness and valuing work income is the best guarantee that the country may have that it will not continue to impoverish in the loss of frames it has formed and that they are going to have to find out the job opportunities with dignity, opportunities they are missing in Portugal. Therefore, the great battle of this legislature is the battle against precariousness, for the dignity of work and for the replacement of family income. I know that this Budget is just a first step, but I am sure it will continue in the next Budgets, in the next legislative sessions, so that, throughout this Parliament, we will win the battle we have to win: to grow in a sustainable way, based on qualification and no longer on impoverishment, in order to return our people to hope and trust in the future of the country. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u83	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, today we are beginning to discuss the State Budget for 2016 and we discuss it in the right place, that is, in the Assembly of the Republic, which is the place where Portuguese are represented because, after all, they are the recipients of the policies that the State Budget enshrines and establishes. We know that it was not an easy walk because, although the government presented the State Budget, the commentators and the voices, above all, of the PSD and CDS, were not lacking to shake the ghost, fear or fear of what the European Commission could say or do, and also to shake the fear of market reaction. They were talking about the lack of credibility of the State budget in Europe, but after all we are discussing the State budget for 2016. Now, without much effort, we realize what the PSD and CDS really want: to perpetuate impoverishment and austerity and that the rights removed over the last four years are not returned. What the PSD and CDS want is that family income continues to get worse and that there is no strengthening of social support. What the PSD and CDS want is that there is no tax relief on labour income and that the social state continues to weaken. [[PSD protests.]] But we don't just know what PSD and CDS want. We also understand what CDS and PSD don't want. And what they don't want is for the bank to pay more. What the PSD and the CDS-PP do not want is that part of the tax benefits granted by the former Government to large economic and financial groups, in particular as regards the deadlines for reporting tax damages, are not blocked. What you don't want is the end of the IMI real estate exemption. What they don't want is that they don't respect the constitutional principle of local autonomy. What they don't want is to increase the solidarity complement for the elderly. What they don't want is for there to be a boost in the social income of insertion. What you don't want is the increase in family allowance. And since what the previous government did with families was just « give here, give here », the PSD and CDS do not want « take there ». But there will be! There will be! There is an effort in this budget to promote the rebalancing of family budgets, there is recovery of family income, there is a reversal of wages and pensions, which you have withdrawn, and there is a brake on the weakening of the social state, which you have played. We are not surprised that the PSD and the CDS want what they want because we had four years of policies and budgets that simply put the Portuguese practically « bread and water». This is the path that PSD and CDS want or intend to continue. But it's not gonna be like that. And, as it will not be, the visible disorientation of PSD and CDS is justified. They speak of the lack of credibility of this budget, when they have been failing for four years on the whole line: failing to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, failing to fight unemployment, failing at the level of budgetary consolidation, failing at the level of public debt, failing at the level of GDP growth and failing at the level of poverty. It is clear, when one day they say that Europe is concerned about the abandonment of right-wing policies and, the next day, they say that the government kneels in front of Europe. Desnorte, when, in the morning, they say this is an unwise budget and, in the evening, they say that after all, it is a budget of austerity. Anyway, it's a nuisance, we're believing, that only time will solve. Mr Prime Minister, this State budget, although in some respects this State budget is still far from necessary to meet the needs of the country and the Portuguese, but also to strengthen environmental values, and therefore the Greens will continue to work in a responsible way to respond to the needs and aspirations of people and to strengthen environmental sustainability, in particular through their proposals in the field of speciality, and I am referring to - for example, proposals on soft mobility or the need to create mechanisms that force the bank to set quantitative targets for support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises - this State budget carries with it a deliberate intention to start to promote an inversion of the policies of the last four years, which have also been marked by contempt for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, by paralyzing our economic activity and, above all, by the widespread impoverishment of families. Mr. Prime Minister, taken into account in the last four years, families have lost more than 10 % of their family income available. It is the same as saying that the policies of the PSD/CDS government have taken 10 % of the available income of families. But this year, with this State Budget, families will begin to recover their income. I would like, Mr. Prime Minister, to tell us, from the government's accounts and in terms of percentage, what will be the level of family income recovery in 2016. Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to refer to unemployment and the fight against precariousness, because unemployment is the most serious problem in our day, which, in fact, the previous government has multiplied by its austerity policies, and the State budget states that, at the level of job creation and in combating precariousness in the labour market, active policies will be implemented. I would therefore like to say something about these active policies for job creation and combating job insecurity. Finally, I would like to ask you this: what do you think of the Greens' proposal to look for mechanisms that force the bank to provide quantitative targets for support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u85	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u86	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, over the past four years, the income available from families has fallen 11 % ; with this Budget, the income available from families has increased by 2 %, 5 %. We have recovered, in this first budget of the Parliament, almost a quarter of what was the destruction of the available income of the families made by the previous government. There's sometimes a speech here that tries to fight things. They say: « They increase the tax on petroleum products, increase the tax on consumer credit and therefore take one hand what they give with the other ». If we add together the measures that increase the income of families and subtract the whole of the new tax revenue, we find that the balance for the benefit of families is much higher. The accounts are simple: EUR 1372 million is the total of the measures that return income to families and EUR 600 million is the ones that increase the taxation of families. Therefore, the balance is more than EUR 700 million for the benefit of families and that is why families actually have a 2, 5 % gain in their available income. But there is one more thing I would like to point out: apparently, when you hear the public debate, all tax increases mean the same thing. Well, not all tax rises mean the same thing. It is not the same to increase the IRS, which is a tax affecting, in particular, who works or increases tobacco tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u87	Yeah, no! IRS is progressive!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u88	It is not the same thing to increase VAT, which is a tax that affects all goods, all services and that we all pay, or just increase special taxes on certain products. What austerity means is to reduce the income of families and not all tax increases that increase or decrease the income of families. I said in my speech that the previous government understood that the priority was to lower the IRC and increase the IRS; we believe that the priority is to lower the IRS without increasing the IRC. [[CDS-PP protests.]] They understood that families should not be protected against IMI increases and preferred to maintain the IMI exemption for real estate investment funds; we do the opposite: we protect families and we end the exemptions for real estate investment funds. So raising or lowering taxes doesn't always mean the same thing. Behind each decline or after each increase in tax is a political option and ours is very clear: to restore the income available from the families against that which has been the practice of the previous government over the past four years. Mr. José Luís Ferreira underlined two other aspects on which I would like to mention. First, the right, in particular the PPD / PSD, is stuck to the pass. He is not able to say anything again and is already ashamed to express again what old has to say, and he is not able to get rid of this. That is why, instead of putting forward proposals, they simply say everything and their opposite. Once again, they say that the Budget is unpredictable; again, they say that the Budget is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u89	It's both!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u90	Once again, they say that we are radical against Europe ; again, they say that we kneel before Europe. That is, listening to the right, we realize that you are not right either in the statement of the morning or in the statement of the afternoon. That is why we are having this debate. We must bring the right once and for all to the present and help it to free itself from the past, so that it can have an active and constructive participation in this Assembly of the Republic. But perhaps the saddest moment I saw throughout all the preparation work of this budget was not that moment when we realized that they were making a fool of themselves under the table so that the European Commission would not approve the budget,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] ...it wasn't even that moment, which we all imagine, when they every night light a candle to see when a rating agency comes to say that it can't be, that this government can't exist. The saddest moment of all was to see the PSD leader in the European Parliament raise his voice not to defend Portugal, not to defend Portuguese companies, not to defend Portuguese companies, but to defend the European Commission to lead the Portugal Budget. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u91	It was a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u92	In the absence of the majority, who do not have in this House, want to win out what they have lost in this House. And that didn't happen! [[P.S. and P.P.P. Mr António Filipe.]] This experience should serve as a lesson, because, when we hear Dr. Steps Rabbit, again, say, with his mavo voice,... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u93	The right doesn't even know the meaning of words!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u94	... that you asked your co-religionaries not to attack the Portuguese Government, we must know exactly what that means. It means that you gave the start to the persecution of a Portuguese Government for the only and exclusive reason to be a PS government but that you have the support of the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens, as if Europe was not democratic where each election must be respected and where each country sovereignly determines itself! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u95	Mr André Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u96	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, considering the context in which this budget is presented, it may be said that it seeks to return some income to families. The option to search for revenue through indirect taxes allows families not to be directly reached in their incomes, allows choices. However, we do not see strategies that have a long-term impact on the well-being of people and animals and on safeguarding nature. We believe there are several aspects to improve, starting with health. Many studies and opinions have a direct and undeniable correlation between food and public health. If we have a fairer diet, with the consumption of fresh foods, without preservatives or chemical additives and organic production, we will have fewer patients, less medicines and less expense. So we're going to have a more sustainable National Health Service. Promoting new eating habits or access to so-called ‘non-conventional therapies’, scientifically validated through tax reduction, is the responsibility of a State that wants a healthy population and, more importantly, will save lives, reduce absenteeism and mortality and increase the so-called productivity. What we see, however, is that the lobby of the transgenics, the dairy and the interests of pig farming are more important in the government than public health policies. On the one hand, studies and warnings of national and international health protection recommend a strong reduction in meat and milk consumption and, on the other hand, we have Mr. Minister of Agriculture to participate in events of these private business sectors and to appeal to their consumption. Mr Prime Minister, is this unconcerted policy that the Government wants for the health of citizens and for the sustainability of the National Health Service or are we finally going to opt for health and citizens? But our concerns are not exhausted in human health. Today, the so-called pet animals represent a relevant burden for many Portuguese families, especially in the indispensable medical-veterinary expenditure. The evolution of society leads our partners to be seen as an integral part of the well-being and balance of a family, and it is essential to ensure a benefit that allows less expensive access to such treatments, proposals that the NAP will make during the discussion of the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u97	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u98	Mr President, Mr André Silva, we cannot transpose into the Budget all policies across the board. It is a priority of our health policy, as is stated in the Government's Programme and as Mr. Minister of Health has already announced, the need for health promotion. And the promotion of health is first of all due to the quality of food. That's something we've mentioned. In fact, yesterday, Mr Minister referred to it as regards food goods with the use of sugar. This is a policy that we must develop, together with producers and the agricultural sector, because this is a winning policy for all. Winner for collective health, winner for the state, who gains more in preventing than to treat, and also wins for those who produce quality food goods, as our agri-food industry has increasingly come to do and which we have to caress, stimulate and give it continuity. As regards the options, we have made choices: in the taxation of vehicles and in the taxation of taxes on petroleum products, we reflect our view of environmental sustainability and the need for a new mobility policy. And we have done so in accordance with what we have done in relation to the public transport system in Lisbon and Porto, because we believe that the great challenge of climate change is gained or is lost, in particular, with the capacity that we have to generate a new, smarter and less resource-consuming mobility. That is also a policy we want to pursue. I must say that we will look forward to the proposals that the NAP will present in the field of specialties, particularly those relating to animal quality of life, and that we do not ignore that in our world there are several species and that the living of human beings with pets is something that we should value and cherish, especially in a society which has had significant rates of aging, in which pets often play an essential role in breaking up with the loneliness of many and many Portuguese. We therefore want to look at your proposals with interest, open-mindedness and certainly have an interesting debate in the field of expertise. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u99	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to a second round of requests for clarification. They are registered for requests for clarification to the Prime Minister, 15 Mr. Members and the Minister have informed the Bureau that they are responding to groups of five. Mr José de Matos Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Prime Minister, I would begin in a way that I would not like to begin: as is my obligation before the voters who have put us here and before this House, I will not go down to the level of Mr Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister makes judgements of intention and asserts inversions with the sole aim of confusing his role as Prime Minister with his role as leader of the Socialist Party. We are not at a rally, we are in the Assembly of the Republic before which Mr Prime Minister answers. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister accused, and he knows that this is false, the Democratic Social Party and its leader of actively conspiring for the lead of this budget. That's, I repeat, fake. But Mr. Prime Minister is probably familiar with these matters, because for four and a half years the party that is now leading was actively committed to predict that the Memorandum of Understanding that you had signed would fail and that the country would not be able to leave the rescue without needing a cautious program. For four and a half years, they were the prophets of misfortune. But the fact that you look at the mirror and see it doesn't mean that everyone else is like you! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister asked me a question: whether I should ask him questions. And this for a simple reason: because useless exercises are not my type. Since this budget has been presented, in the light of the questions put to it in the various plans, Mr Prime Minister — and this has also happened today — insists on not answering anything...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u102	... and insists on vulgarities and in common places, such as that of affirming that this Budget will turn the page of austerity. That's false, Prime Minister! And it is not by repeating a thousand times that truth that it becomes a concrete reality. [[PSD applause.]] It is time, Mr. Prime Minister, for us to end the puns. The Prime Minister and his government are responsible and, as they are politically responsible, they have to account for us and insist on not doing so. For example, they do not answer the question of extraordinary measures, they do not specifically answer the question of debt renegotiation... i.e. they do not respond to anything in particular and they joyfully repeat vulgarities, as if that were the obligation or responsibility of a government. Let me tell you with all honesty: do not transfer responsibilities to others. The Social Democratic Party, which competed in the elections associated with the CDS, won these elections. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It was presented with a Programme and this Programme was supported. And now, using an expression used by Mr. Carlos César, you did not have to put yourself in any "genuflexory" in front of the radical left in order to be able to govern, giving in to fundamental issues of your Programme! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] So when the Prime Minister and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group come here to say that if we think everything is so wrong, because we do not present proposals, our justification is very clear, that is what I just gave it: our proposals are known, we do not hide them from anyone and we do not hesitate a moment to reaffirm its usefulness and its importance for the country. You are responsible, you have to understand the'management' in order to make your budget viable! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, once again in that logic as leader of the Socialist Party, brought here a set of considerations about errors. You know that the most important thing in mistakes is not the formal ones, they are the substantial ones. And since your Government and your Minister for Finance have not yet been approved, three or four different versions have already been presented, I am not surprised that they do so. In fact, I remember that at the time of Professor Teixeira dos Santos the Budget was still being approved in this Chamber and was already approving Reformary Budgets. And we must also not forget the famous episode of the pen which was delivered empty in this House, because neither the gentlemen nor the Budget had to present! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we need to understand each other. There are two ways of governing: there is one way of governing responsible, which thinks about the future of the country and, yes, thinks about the future of families and businesses, and there is one way of giving in to temptations because it wants to be able at all costs and because it wants to be nice at all costs. And that difference is clear: it is the difference between doing what has to be done or doing what seems most to be an electoral manifesto, concerned, it is not known when, in holding elections in circumstances that are favorable to you and to the'management' that supports it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u103	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, the last days of Dr. Passos Coelho's governance remind us of that nineteenth century novel called The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Wyde. A narrative with elements of scientific fiction, but also of terror, which evaluated, above all, the phenomenon of multiple personalities. In practice, Mr. Prime Minister, it was like this: Dr. Passos, in Mr. Hyde's skin, in Brussels, was a servant and demoniac with the Portuguese and said that the cuts in wages and also the overtax of IRS were structural and definitive. When Dr. Passos Coelho got on the plane and arrived in Portugal, his task was basically by the hands of Dr. Jekyll, trying to control the appearances of Mr. Hyde in Brussels. And control these appearances of Mr. Hyde, in Brussels, was basically saying: attention, this is absolutely a lie, it's all temporary, wage cuts are temporary and overtax as well. Now this only calmed down when Mr Finance Minister realized these tricks, when Mr Finance Minister in Brussels outlined the failure of the right-wing government. But the problem, Prime Minister, is that there are lots of Jekyll and many Hyde there. The question is: what is the way, Prime Minister? What path should we take to prevent this antipatriotic noise on the Portuguese right from damaging the results that we hope will come from the State Budget for 2016? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u105	To request clarification, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Prime Minister, we have attended a debate in which the right arises authentically under the skirts of the European bureaucracy: it presents, as it has so far done during the budgetary debate, the complaints in Brussels and in Parliament after intervention has been hiding the Programme which it had submitted in Brussels for the years 2015 to 2019. They say that this State Budget is bad, that it is not a family friend. So let us see the accounts that the PSD and the CDS have left in Brussels: more than 800 million in taxes than the Budget we are now discussing; less EUR 680 million for pensions, between cuts and freezing; the frozen minimum wage; social benefits with less than EUR 135 million; the moderate rates would cost the users of the National Health Service more than EUR 40 million; the Right Budget maintained the protection of the IMI for investment funds and, at the end of the accounts, withdrew EUR 2000 million to the families. This list—so ‘friend’ of families and middle class, that it is—is in the trash can of history, and still well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u108	But how can the right come to this debate with criticism of the lack of strategy, after four years in which every commitment of its electoral programme failed — indeed, on the very day following the elections — and in which, then, did it fail each objective that was announced, by ruling under the troika baton and leaving the country with a debt greater than it ever had? How can the right come here and talk about strategy? How can the taxpayer's party talk about strategy, when you proposed during each year you were in the government — and now in the plan you presented in Brussels — more and more taxes? How can the Social Democratic Party talk about strategy, when it has submitted itself to the greatest ultra-liberal delirium of its history, even if it now wants to stage a sort of cure of social-democrat detoxification? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u109	There is here, if you want to talk about strategy, a majority who does what you committed and consistent with what each of these parties committed to the elections: return incomes and comply with the constitutional rights that the previous government threatened. This leads us to the question of special measures. It is true that we know the context: of great financial instability worldwide. The dynamics of disaggregating the European project are in view of how the refugee crisis is being managed, is in view of the UK process itself, and is in view of how the extremist directory that has commanded the fates of Europe faces each of these crises. And the Portuguese economy maintains its essential vulnerabilities on the issue of debt, on the issue of the vulnerability of the economy, on structural unemployment. The question that I leave to you, Prime Minister, is the following: in this scenario of instability, do you or do you not maintain the commitment to, facing the need for measures not provided for in this Budget, respect the principle of reintroduction of income, the principle that there will be no new burden on labour income and pensions and essential goods? In the case of a difficulty, in the case of the need for extraordinary measures, this strategic sense, which gives this majority, which must prevail. I wonder if that is also your understanding. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u110	Mr Mota Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, there is one thing we have already realized: whenever this bench asks you a question, you can only answer with the past. I know that he has now specialized in giving advice to the Portuguese and, therefore, let me also give him advice: a Prime Minister who can only justify his budget and his actions with the past is a Prime Minister who will soon become part of the past! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] But if you really want to talk about the past, Mr Prime Minister, at least respect the efforts that the Portuguese have had to make to remove the country from the bankruptcy in which you have left it — in fact, just look around the government bench to see many of those who have put Portugal on the brink of bankruptcy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u112	Respect everything the Portuguese have done! It was certainly a hard path, a hard, very difficult path, but it was a path that began to yield results. And I say that it began to produce results because we went from a recession to an economic growth that last year was 1.5%, exactly what the government predicted at the time. It was a way in which we had a deficit of more than 11 % for a deficit of about 3 %; it was a path in which we had spent in a country where unemployment for many years had not stopped going up to a country where unemployment began to fall sustainably; but, above all, we have removed the ghost of bankruptcy and Portugal from being, in the context of the sovereign debt crisis, a country that was a problem to be a country that presented solutions. That is why today — and that is what we are talking about here — the caution advised us to strengthen this effort, to do everything to regain confidence and, above all, to do everything to recover the economy and employment, even because there is still much to do in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u114	However, what this Budget does is to choose a path, but a path in which the risks are very present: where it should have credibility is unrealistic and where it should have confidence puts uncertainty. In just 15 days from the State Budget outline, the government had to correct, before the Portuguese and before the world, the growth of the Product, had to correct the value of the deficit and had to correct the value of the exports. Of 2, 1 % growth, we went to 1, 8 % and, even in this review, we are not accompanied by any national or international institution, with the European Commission, at the head. I explain why this is not good, Mr. Prime Minister, nor does it help a country that is gradually making its way: it is now that all international economic indicators are skating. from Europe and outside Europe, the signs of the economy are bad and that is exactly why Portugal should have the judgment of knowing how to leave the radar, not put itself in a position of who is a problem, in a world that is becoming a truly dangerous place.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u116	The truth is that all the signs that the government is giving add doubts, add mistrust and, above all, add uncertainty. You have chosen the way to challenge the reforms, for example, the labour reform, which has been done in dialogue with the social partners at the social dialogue table and which has certainly helped Portugal to regain employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u118	You chose to reverse the concessions and privatisations that helped capture investment for Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u119	That's not what investment is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u120	You have chosen to interrupt the fall in the tax burden on companies, to reduce that which has been contracted with the social partners and voted here with the vote of the Socialist Party and which has helped Portugal to capture investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u121	the socialists no longer remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u122	And they did this only to satisfy your base of support — the Left Block, the Communist Party and the CGTP — without, with that, they would mind taking away the confidence that Portugal had been taking up nationally and internationally. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And confidence, Prime Minister, is the most important value that Portugal should safeguard. Without confidence there is no investment, no investment there is no economy and no economy there is no employment. That is why I ask you, Prime Minister : in this State budget, where is the economy? I am not asking you about the Minister for Economic Affairs, even though we also like to know where he is going; I am asking you where are the measures to help investment, to help the recovery, to help competitiveness. If Mr. Prime Minister does not want to listen to us, at least hear who creates jobs, who invests in Portugal. The four confederations representing employers in Portugal have taken a common position, which says, and I quote: « CAP, CCP, CIP and CTP consider that this State budget does not favour private investment, which is essential for economic growth and the reduction of unemployment. Do not keep on seeking. ” On investment, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question, the « cotton test ». We have indicators that show us that 2015 will have been the best year of contractual investment in Portugal and this is a sign of the confidence that Portugal has won.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u123	See if you're going to talk about « seen gold!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u124	Give me, Prime Minister, five examples of investments above EUR 30 million that are in portfolios or that are on the pipeline as a result of your policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u125	Many 'gold' visas are in court!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u126	If you want, I can give you 10 examples of investments that have been made in Portugal above that value. Give me, Prime Minister, five examples that have happened in your consulate, because this is essential for us to realize, in fact, the confidence that Portugal can have. But more than that, this is the investment that Portugal needs 'as bread for the mouth' to generate confidence, to generate employment and, above all, to generate wealth. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u127	Even in this first group of requests for clarification, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, it had already been noticed, before we started the debate, that the violence with which PSD and CDS and its circles of influence have been struck against this State budget corresponds to two central concerns that PSD and CDS have: on the one hand, they seek to set fire to the State budget so that they forget what is behind them, so that they forget the trail of destruction that they left when they left the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u130	... and to hide the real difficulties in which they have sunk the country; and on the other hand, they seek to create all difficulties in adopting measures of a positive sense so that the injustice of the choices they have made and the measures they have taken for four years is not even more evident. This has been more recently, with the opposition of PSD and CDS to the replacement of wages in 2016, the reduction and revocation of over-taxes, the replacement of holidays and pension supplements, which did not want them to be voted tomorrow, but which will be voted in global final vote tomorrow to return to the workers what they are entitled to and which PSD and CDS have withdrawn them. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] PSD and CDS also now, in relation to the State budget, seek to make it difficult for all measures that may constitute signs of reversal of the policy they have carried out in the last four years with objectives of exploitation and impoverishment. At the end of this second round of questions to Mr Prime Minister, I would like to note one fact here: this is the first State budget, in five years, whose debate generally does not begin to be made under the knife of unconstitutionalities, under the confrontation with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] This is a decisive element that should embarrass PSD and CDS for what they have done for four years in comparison with the Constitution and with the most basic rights of workers and the Portuguese people. PSD and CDS are in this debate, above all, uncomfortable, because the false arguments they have used for four years have been defeated by the struggle of workers and the people and because now it becomes increasingly evident, with the measures that are being approved, which have been worth and still worth, it is worth continuing to fight for a policy that gives a complete response to the problems of workers and the Portuguese people. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to raise two questions that relate to two essential lines of the policy implemented by the PSD and the CDS: the worsening of job insecurity both in the private sector and in the Public Administration and the destruction and degradation of the capacity to respond to services and public enterprises, particularly with the imposition of staff shortages, with the destruction of careers, with the destruction of rights and with the dismissals of workers from services and public enterprises. Regarding job insecurity, the situation we see today is truly dramatic, reaching record levels: 1, 2 million Portuguese were pushed into this scourge. But it is not only the drama of these 1, 2 million workers and their families, it is also the collective drama of our country, it is the drama of public services and public enterprises that, requiring stable workers, are pushed into the use of precariousness, such as the 68 000 employment-inclusion contracts that illustrate this situation in a dramatic way. Particularly in the Public Administration, the use of internships, employment-inclusion contracts, green receipts, temporary contracts and other forms of precariousness has become a rule, encouraged and promoted by the Government of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u132	The Government knows that the CFP has always put this issue as one of the priorities and therefore we note with satisfaction that the proposal for a State Budget has the contribution given by the CFP, including a measure already proposed by this Parliamentary Group and that it is a first step towards combating precariousness in the Public Administration, namely the lifting of all precarious employment situations in the Public Administration so that they can be overcome and lead to the recruitment of these workers. It is a positive record that we make regarding the State budget, knowing that this is a fight that has to continue beyond the State budget. Therefore, we have already introduced legislative initiatives in the Assembly of the Republic so that this discussion can be held and that its conclusion is the realization of that slogan and of that essential element not only of our legislation but also of the point of view of the structure of work, which says that a permanent job must correspond to an effective employment contract. On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to raise a question about the lack of staff in public services and in public enterprises and the destruction of workers' rights and careers, because we all remember the consequences of the options taken by the previous Government, PSD and CDS, and the expression of these options in the concrete life of Portuguese. Let us remind ourselves of the fact that we are reminded of the Portuguese people that the urgent urgent demands of hospitals should be drowned, that they could not respond to the users because of the lack of doctors, due to the lack of doctors, due to the lack of doctors; let us remind ourselves of the drama of the increase of waiting lists, of changes in hours of the functioning hours of health services, of the lack of professionals, of lack of professionals; let us remember that we, in education, of schools that function because the parents organized themselves in their associations because they were lacking in their associations, because they were employed as employees, because they were the fathers who were responsible for the operation of the canteens; let us remind ourselves of the children with disabilities who were unable to work in schools, because of the lack of waiting lists of waiting lists of the working hours of the health services services of the health services services services services services services in schools, because there are no professionals, we remember that children with lack of criminal investigation personnel in the criminal investigation of criminal investigation and criminal investigation of criminal investigation of criminal investigation personnel in the criminal investigation of criminal investigation of criminal investigation of criminal investigation of criminal investigation and criminal investigation in police, the judicial problems and criminal investigation of the judicial problems that the judicial problem in the judicial police the judicial and the judicial and the judicial police the judiciary, we will will will will will will will will have the judicial , we should. , we should, we remember that we should, we remember that we should , we remember that the role, that we have the role of the role of the role of the role of the role, the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role, the role of the role of the role of the role of the role, the role , the role, the role, the role, the role, the role, the role, the role, the role, the role of the role, the role of the role, the role of the role, the role of the role of the role of the role of the role, the role of the role, the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of the role of The depth of the problems that are placed is very large and the basic answer that is required is a response that has been characterized for a long time. In this State budget, there are concrete positive signal measures, which we have noted, to address these problems. In particular, measures relating to the elimination of restrictions on recruitment, particularly in the local administration, or to the hiring of family doctors... It is, moreover, the first budget, in five years, which does not provide for rules requiring authorities, public services, businesses in the state business sector to fire and reduce personnel and open the possibility of hiring. That is the question we want to put, Mr Prime Minister, because, knowing that the State budget does not answer all these problems, knowing that there are substantive measures that need to be taken, we will have an opportunity to discuss many of these measures, but we have the notion that many of these problems will have to be discussed beyond the State budget and that beyond the State budget, we will have to find answers to all these problems that continue to reach the citizens of this country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u133	Mrs. Members, having completed the first series of five requests for clarification, have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr João Oliveira and Mr Jorge Costa, this is indeed the first budget that has two very important marks. First of all, it is the first budget in many years that fulfils the Constitution and, secondly, it is the first budget in many years in which a government does not stand or cut wages, neither cuts pensions, nor increases taxes, which, in the election campaign, had sworn not to increase. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This difference has value in itself, but it also has fundamental economic value, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, for confidence, because the stability of the legal framework and a clear economic policy increase predictability and strengthen the confidence of those who intend to invest. That is why we are going to fulfil the commitments and the policy we have defined. We said: the need for the replacement of wages must be guaranteed; the need for the replacement of pensions must be guaranteed; there is no new taxation on wages and pensions must be guaranteed. We guarantee in this negotiation, we guarantee in other negotiations, because this is essential, and not only essential for ourselves, it is essential for us to have a virtuous turn of our economic cycle, because only with an increase in the income available to families will entrepreneurs have more confidence in investing. Only with the increase in the family's available income can we have an increase in demand without greater indebtedness, but sustained in higher income. That is why increasing the income available to families is not only helping those who need income, it is also contributing positively to having an economy that generates growth and, generating growth, creating jobs. This change is absolutely essential. I would like to add that, with regard to Public Administration, this State Budget is also the first one that in many years does not see Public Administration as a problem and difficulty but, on the contrary, sees the Public Administration and its employees as a need of the country, and that is why we want to value the Public Administration and its employees. It has been said that we will have a reduction of employees, between those who will be terminated and those who will be hired. However, there is a fundamental number to be taken into account: we will restore 10,000 employees in the Public Administration in many particularly poor services, signalled and referred to by Mr João Oliveira. Mr Pereira, what is needed to clarify? Well, what it takes to clarify is to speak frankly with the European institutions, not to have a speech in and out there, and to say out there the same thing that we say in here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We can't say out there that it's a definitive cut and then inside we'll say it's a temporary cut. We can't say out there that the overtax is definitive, when inside we say that we're even going to return it, if everything goes well by the end of the year. No, this duality undermines trust and undermines the credibility of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Pedro Mota Soares, but even the Portuguese we have to respect and respect Portuguese is to avoid cutting 600 million euros in pensions which the Government that you have incorporated has committed to cutting in Brussels. Don't! We respect the Portuguese and do not make this cut of EUR 600 million in pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, it is to respect the Portuguese to restore the maturity they had been cut off, to respect the Portuguese to relieve the middle class of the huge increase in taxes that their Government had made. Yes, this is to respect the Portuguese and we respect the Portuguese. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible for you to have corrected growth prospects? Mr President, for a fundamental reason: growth prospects are not a product of guessing, nor a magic game, the result of a set of measures taken. The set of measures adopted, and envisaged in the budget outline, provided for a stronger, faster growth of 2, 1 %; the measures that we had to adopt and which appear in this Budget do not allow such rapid growth, only allow for a growth of 1, 8 %. What happened? What happened was that we negotiated in good faith with the European Commission. Now, to negotiate with the European Commission is to tell you where we agree to cut and where we do not accept to cut, what we accept to increase and what we do not accept to increase. The difference is all there! They make this game of meaning to say, as Mr José de Matos Correia said, that austerity remains, that it is not turned, no, Mr. Members, increasing bank taxation for the Resolution Fund is not the same as increasing IRS over workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Protecting families from increasing IMI is not the same as ending the exemption from IMI for real estate investment funds. And what distinguishes us is not the greatest or least willingness to have the budgetary balance, it is how we get that budgetary balance. You did it at the expense of work, we do it by protecting work and its income, because it is essential and this is the commitment we have made to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr José de Matos Correia, with all my frankness, I do not take part in this debate but choose: the Budget or is an electoral manifesto or is the continuation of austerity. Now, it cannot be said at the same time that it is a lax and reckless electoral manifesto and then to say that it is a budget of austerity that does not change and that maintains the policy that you had. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Member, I know that for radicals it's hard to understand what balance is... [[The radicals are there!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u135	No, the radicals are there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u136	The radicals are there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u137	No, that's where the radicals are! That's where the radicals are! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is why they had to go through the shame of seeing the President of the Commission turn to the PSD leader in the European Parliament, Mr. Paulo Rangel, and tell him, with a flair, that no one had the right to take to the European Parliament the debates of national policy because they are done in each country, they are not done in the European Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, Mr President, as long as we all remember Paul Rangel and his behaviour in the European Parliament well can put the flags to the plea that no one will ever respect you to defend Portugal and the Portuguese. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u138	Mr. Prime Minister, let's move on to a set of five more. Members, who are registered to request clarification. So Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u139	Mr President, Prime Minister, directly or indirectly, as we have seen, Portuguese have been called upon to contribute to a debt that many do not understand. Commitments with the European Union and international creditors bear this obligation. It is this same European Union which recently decided on the end of financing for the Tauromach industry. The Portuguese do not understand how it is possible, against everything and against everyone (including against the opinion of the Telespector Provider ), that the public television service continues to broadcast tours, thus financing this activity with the money that, at both costs, the Portuguese earn. By the time the end of the tourney transmission you paid with the money of all of us? [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Rosa Maria Albernaz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u140	Mr. Manuel Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u141	Mr President, Prime Minister, the State Budget for 2016 wants to turn the page of austerity, but increases taxation by EUR 2000 million. This budget provides for less deficits, but the deficit in public accounts increases more than EUR 600 million, EUR 840 million to be needed. The European Commission itself has already stated that it expects the deficit in national accounts to exceed 3 %. The government bets on investment, but public investment decreases 5, 4 %. Portugal needs to create more jobs, but this budget plans to slow down the rate of employment generation by about a third. The government bets on the greatest contribution of external demand, but productivity increases half the increase in remuneration and Portugal will lose competitiveness in 2016. All the assumptions of this State budget are based on a nominal increase in gross domestic product(GDP) of 3, 9 %. Mr Prime Minister, will it not be unwise and risky to predict nominal product growth almost two percentage points above OECD forecast and virtually one percentage point above European Commission forecast? Oh, my God! It is vital to comply with the Budget Treaty and it is vital to ensure the reduction of the excessive indebtedness of the country and, at the same time, to ensure the continuity of the cycle of recovery and generation of employment. This budget does not comply with the two fundamental rules of the Budget Treaty, because, firstly, excessive public debt, above 60 % of GDP, does not reduce by 5 % per year and, secondly, the structural balance does not reduce 0, 5 percentage points. [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to hear. This budget provides that in 2016 the State has to refinance EUR 46 billion, only in interest of EUR 8500 million, Mr. Members, EUR 23 million per day. [[Rice from PCP Member Paulo Sá.]] The mistrust installed by a risky policy, since the beginning of this legislature, more than doubled the cost of financing to five years. Instead of Budget strengthening the security of Portuguese,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u142	... in the face of external instability and uncertainty, this budget exposes Portugal, unnecessarily, to the dangers of worsening international circumstances. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u143	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm going to ask you two questions. First: is it true that the tax burden increases not only by volume, but also by percentage of the Product, if it grows what OECD expects it to grow, the nominal product? Secondly, how will it adjust the expectations it has created for the Portuguese, to the economic reality it presents in this State budget? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u144	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Lara Martinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u145	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to begin by congratulating the Government and the Prime Minister on the very positive change in this budget with regard to the relationship with autonomy. Of course, I would like to highlight four measures which are already being safeguarded in this Budget: the replacement, once and for all, of the equality of citizens of the Azores and Madeira in access to health care; the change in the criterion of access to investment financing, shared by Community funds, which will allow the development of many new and important projects; the elimination and revocation of the suspension of payment of subsidies and transfers to conservatives, notaries and registration officers in the Azores; and the significant increase in the income of the work of the Azori families. However, and in this spirit of greater approximation to autonomy, it is also necessary to continue to work on other matters, such as urban rehabilitation and the development of the economy of the sea. For this reason it is essential that it be clarified that autonomous regions can access new funds created at national level, contrary to what happened in previous years. in this sense, I would like Mr. Prime Minister to clarify here, in this House, that the Azores and Madeira have direct access to the funds provided for in the State Budget for 2016 which are not exclusively financed by structural funds such as access to the National Building Rehabilitation Fund. I would also like to ask Mr Prime Minister about another area which deserves our greatest attention and which concerns the reduction of context costs, in particular the high telecommunications costs that still persist in the autonomous regions, despite the changes made by the regulator in 2015. in an era of innovation, as we know, the importance of more economic communications, for attractive investment and competitiveness of our companies, is essential. In view of this situation, I would like to ask the Prime Minister what the Government's willingness to study the conditions for the necessary regulatory changes to allow the various operators to access the optical fibre cables for the Azores and Madeira, but at an effective competitive price, thus ensuring the territorial continuity of the country and the competitiveness of our autonomous regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u146	Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u147	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Luís Montenegro, in his first speech, said that the recovery measures, the increase in the national minimum wage, the replacement of wages that the right cut, the elimination of the overtax, the extension of social support, all that, were electoralist measures. 'They have already entered the electoral campaign' — these are the words of Mr Luís Montenegro. I don't think you understand. He did not first realize that electoralism and propaganda exist when the authors of the largest and most massive austerity program... [[The authors are there, on the government bench!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u148	...come, now, shout alive to social democracy—social democracy always! — and did not realize, perhaps, that this Budget responds to two emergencies for this country: it does not allow the deepening of the austerity proposed by the right in the electoral programme, with cuts in pensions and the continuation of the increase in taxes—we all know what was the programme of the then, PàF, when the elections took place— and begin to respond to poverty and the backwardness that the PSD and the CDS-PP spread in Portugal. Yes, this is a Budget that returns wages and represents a gain of 700 million euros for families! Yes, this is a Budget that supports the elderly and families with dependent descendants and ascendings! Yes, this is a Budget that reduces the moderate rates that the PSD and CDS-PP more than they doubled during the last government! But it is also true that it is still an insufficient budget to respond to all the destruction of wealth and the destruction of many families that the PSD and the CDS-PP have promoted in this country. There can therefore be no tingling or hesitation as to the way that Portugal has to go. As much as the PSD and the CDS-PP ask Brussels or Germany, as much as the PSD and the CDS-PP urge the European Commission, as much as Europe blackmails, the path of deterioration on work, the path of recovery of income and the strengthening of the social state is to continue. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister : knowing that the PSD and the CDS-PP pray every day for the imposition of a plan b, knowing that the PSD and the CDS-PP are on the side of the European Commission, against the interests of the Portuguese, knowing that there will be blackmail and pressure in this regard, is Mr Prime Minister willing to continue the path that begins with this Budget, which will be the increase of the national minimum wage, the reduction of taxation on labour income and the increase in social support to whom it most needs? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u149	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor to ask for clarification in this round.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u150	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister has raised the matter of saying and this budget has been marked, in terms of debate, by being the Budget of the turn of pages. And I would like to recognize this very thing: Mr. Prime Minister, with this Budget, turns two pages and continues to write a very important page. The problem is that the two pages that I had seen turned back and the page that I wrote, and it is important, did not start to be written by you. From now on, the credibility page was turned back: Portugal went back to the negative international radar and the government went back to the negative assessment by national and international institutions regarding the credibility of its forecasts and budgetary exercises. I mean, it's a page turned back. On the other hand, in terms of options, Mr. Prime Minister was quite clear here saying that in choices there is ideology and values. It's true! We do not know these choices of the Socialist Party only now, we also know them from the past. For example, here I have a quote from your predecessor as Socialist Prime Minister of 13 May 2010 in the following sense : « increase in VAT at the three rates allows to be distributed by everyone ». Distribute by everyone the charge, indiscriminately! That's exactly what you guys do again in this Budget! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u151	by increasing, exclusively, regressive taxes, you indiscriminately increase taxes. In other words, you only move in taxes that increase both for the poor and for the rich in the same way, which means that they suffer much more those who have less than those who can live well with the increases that you make. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Therefore, it is appropriate to say, Prime Minister, that this page of austerity is also turned back. You often compare this increase with increases in IRS, but IRS has a big difference: it is progressive. Therefore, in the IRS, they pay less those who have less and pay more those who have more and, from then on, this has a consequence, Prime Minister : 52 % of Portuguese do not pay IRS and are therefore not subject to any increase in that tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u152	That's not true! You had a tax on these people!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u153	Do you know how much of the Portuguese people pay the taxes that you raise in this budget? 100% of Portuguese! 100% of Portuguese pay taxes on petroleum products! 100% of Portuguese pay for tobacco tax! That is to say, you have reverted to the socialist option of increasing taxes indiscriminately. It is even a luxury to do something unthinkable: when the previous government wrote this page of the return of income... This because you cannot say that this is the Budget that begins to return income to people, the Budget that began to return income to people was the State Budget for 2015, particularly to public servants and pensioners. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS Protests, PCP and BE Mariana Mortagua MP.]] I repeat, to public servants and pensioners! Do you know how many pensioners have returned the State Budget for 2015, the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS? Oh, my God! 99% of Portuguese pensioners! Repeat: 99%! Mr Prime Minister can be proud because, in fact, there is a page that you will look forward to: for pensioners who have pensions above €4600 you have turned forward to the austerity page. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is Prime Minister Antonio Costa who will return the pensioners, with more than €4600, your pension in total! It's a page turned forward that I had forgotten in the initial evaluation. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[But, Prime Minister, things don't always run as you think, in fact, the last time a socialist government ruled Portugal they even ran very differently from what I had originally imagined. So, Mr. Prime Minister can't hurt to ask for plans b. And my parliamentary leader asked you, exactly 1 hour and 30 minutes ago, if I had to make a plan b where I would go. Mr. Prime Minister almost got angry with the question, but the Left Block has already asked him the same question twice. Therefore, it is not so strange to ask for plan b.]] So the question I am asking is very simple: is the plan b of the Socialist Party a plan that respects those who have the most difficulties, which respects the effort that the Portuguese have made over the past four years so that we will not go through a difficult situation again, or is it the same as what the Socialist Party did last time that it was government? Oh, my God! And I am going to give you another quote from your predecessor, the former Socialist Prime Minister, who, when asked about why the reduced rate of VAT would increase the price of essential goods, said that it would increase VAT on products such as milk and bread, because Coca-Cola and Pepsi-Cola were also taxed at 5 %, and therefore increased to 6 % did not make any difference. More: he said that increasing all VAT rates was the way to distribute the effort by all Portuguese. Does the Prime Minister think that it is fair to distribute the effort by all Portuguese or contrary to the logic of many of his colleagues who are sitting on this bench and who were part of a government that took such serious measures as this, the increase in VAT? I also remember that the VAT rate that is currently in force in Portugal is no less than the VAT rate that you have raised twice the last time you were government! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u154	Having concluded this second block of requests for clarification, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised. On another occasion, I will leave the answer to the question put by Mr André Silva, who transcends the scope of the Budget, and I will begin with the question put by Mr João Pinho de Almeida. Firstly, this Government does not only increase VAT as the only intervention on VAT is to lower the VAT of the restoration. The government's option was to, rather than to increase VAT, as you did,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u156	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u157	Yes, yes, yes! Instead of increasing VAT, as you have done, the government has raised special taxes on tobacco consumption, vehicles, consumer credit and petroleum products. This was the option we made, not to increase VAT! More: above all, we chose not to increase taxes on labour income, pensions and even corporate income. So when he talks in progressiveity, I ask: how he talks in progressiveity about a government that has reduced the steps of the IRS...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u158	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u159	...and introduced the family quotient, like you did? Oh, my God! These, yes, were effectively regressive mechanisms. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The gentlemen. Members may be reassured that we will pursue the policy we have defined, and the policy we have defined goes by increasing the income available to families, continuing to update the national minimum wage up to €600, in 2019, by resting the social benefits that were cut by the previous government and continuing a return on income, because we believe that the replacement of income is an essential condition not only so that people can live better, but also so that there can be a healthy growth in our economy. Now, there is something very clear, listening to Mr Rodrigues and Mr João Almeida: every day they are waiting to finally be the day when there is a problem. [[No, no! Stop it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u160	They hope that there will be a problem with the European Commission, with DBRS or with someone. Mr. João Almeida, so far, I have noted that the CDS-PP has had a quite responsible and patriotic stance, which is not confused with the performance of the PPD / PSD. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] That is why I would like to tell the honourable Member that we have complete confidence in the budget that we have presented and that we have nothing hidden in our sleeves. We have a serious and clear relationship with the European Commission. The Eurogroup called on Portugal to prepare a set of measures to be used when necessary, and that is what Mr. Minister for Finance said and was made up of the statements by the Eurogroup. This is very different, indeed, from what was said last year, because last year it was said: submit the measures! And then Prime Minister what he said was that he was premature. I don't say it's premature,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u161	I say we're doing what we're supposed to do. [[What is it?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u162	Mr. Member, we plan to go to Port, we have to be there at a certain time and we want to comply with the Road Code. We are ready to leave Lisbon at the right time to, following the Road Code, arrive at the port at the right time. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But it may happen that there is a disaster that slows us down in the way,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ...we can decide to stop to have a coffee,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...we can decide, instead,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u163	It can even fail!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u164	...or, better, others might decide not to comply with the Road Code,... [[Laughing.]] ... and the change of these factors naturally alter the trajectory. And, therefore, foreseeing the possibility of a bottleneck, a disaster that blocks and delays the course on a given route, we can foresee the alternative measure to, with another route, reach the Port. Now, what we have to do—and only because we have been asked to—is to prepare ourselves for any eventuality. There is something I wanted to make very clear: we will do everything to fulfill the goals that we assume are those of this Budget! We want to beat us by replacing incomes,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u165	... by the growth of the economy, but we also want to beat us by reducing nominal and structural deficit and reducing public debt. We want, it's part of the objective of this Budget, and we're going to beat ourselves up for it! This is a compromise we have, and it is not only with Europe, it is with the Portuguese, it is with the Assembly of the Republic, Mr! And that's what we're going to do! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr Rodrigues has read what I would have read and not read in the conclusions of the European Commission and the conclusions of the Eurogroup. That is why we are very pleased to be here and not in the European Commission or in the Eurogroup. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u166	Let us now enter the last set of five entries to request clarification from the Prime Minister. First of all, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u167	Mr President, Prime Minister, the PSD and the CDS have launched a campaign against the State budget directly and also from its circles of influence against tax measures favourable to workers and the people who have already been taken or are registered in the State budget. This campaign aims to achieve two objectives: to hide the options they have made over the past four years, to crush tax workers and to create the greatest possible difficulties in adopting measures that reverse these options, favouring workers, reducing or eliminating taxes on their incomes. PSD and CDS do this, treating everything as an increase in tax burden, mixing taxes on the bank with the IRS, confusing the end of the exemption on real estate funds with other taxes, and doing so to create a smoke curtain that hides everything that has already been or will be approved in a positive way for the workers and the people. We must not forget that in 2013 PSD and CDS imposed a brutal increase in labour income taxes. As a result, in just one year, from 2012 to 2013, the tax revenue under IRS increased 35 %, more than EUR 3200 million. They also raised new taxes in the year of the so-called 'green taxation', and charged excise duties. at the same time as workers were scouring, PSD and CDS moved forward with an IRC reform that allowed economic groups and large companies to pay less and less taxes. These options of PSD and CDS are very revealing of their class options: smashing tax workers so they can continue to favour large capital. Mr Prime Minister, there is a need for a profound change in fiscal policy. The State budget we are discussing today takes a few steps in the right direction: it reduces the overtax of IRS, which will disappear completely in the next year; it replaces the family quotient by fixed deductions; it reduces the VAT of the restoration, by fiscally relieving a sector of activity that employs hundreds of thousands of workers; it introduces the safeguard clause of the IMI, protecting families from sudden increases in this tax. The State budget also puts an end to the exemption from IMI for real estate investment funds, increases the contribution of the banking sector and makes, although shy, steps towards the fairer taxation of profits of large companies, in particular through the limitation of certain tax exemptions and the reduction of deadlines for reporting losses. In addition to these measures already enshrined in the State budget, it is also necessary to ensure, in particular, the introduction of other fiscal measures such as the reduction of the maximum rate of IMI and fiscal stimulus to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. These are positive measures that the CFP values. But, Prime Minister, the CFP also believes that it is necessary to go further to ensure a fair fiscal policy, it is necessary to increase the number of steps of the IRS, significantly reduce the rates of lower and intermediate steps... [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u168	... and improve the deductions of health, education, housing and homes, ending the tax collection imposed by the former Government of the PSD / CDS. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that taxpayers with high capital capacity, the richest among the rich, with annual incomes of millions of euros, pay due taxes. It is necessary to eliminate the multiple legal loopholes used by economic groups and large companies to escape tax payments, just as it is necessary to eliminate the tax benefits for large capital. It is necessary to tax the highest assets, just as it is necessary to create a tax on financial transactions, which has long been promised, but always postponed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u169	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u170	Mr Prime Minister, while not forgetting what has already been and will be achieved immediately, these are proposals by which the CFP has been beaten and will continue to beat. Proposals for a profound change in fiscal policy, which breaks the scandalous favour of economic groups, large businesses and great fortunes, and relieves the tax burden on workers and also on micro and small enterprises. Proposals which, by ensuring greater fiscal justice, at the same time allow the State to have the necessary resources to ensure its functions and responsibilities before the workers and the people. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u171	You now have the floor to Mrs Margarida Mano to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u172	Madam President, Prime Minister, you can always say about an Budget, as the poet said about our lives: there is a Budget that is lived and an Budget that is thought to be,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u173	...and the only budget we have is what is divided between the true and the wrong. This sentiment is expressed with regard to the PO11 of Education, one of the programmes with the highest budget expenditure ( EUR 82 million ). I could use it to question Mr. Prime Minister in order to know how, in the current context, Portuguese society should read this sign of contraction in education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u174	Now! It's passion!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u175	I could also ask Mr Prime Minister how it will be possible, with a cut of EUR 82 million, to make true the strategic objectives enshrined in page 142 of the Report, regarding education, in particular the universality of the offer of preschool education from three to five years,... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ... the generalization of the whole school, etc. etc. No, no, no, no. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ... or the commitments that are made, not in the text, in order to reduce the number of students by class...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u176	They've increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u177	... and, in particular, activities with youth and sport, whose budgets were previously added to that of education and are now integrated into this smaller budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u178	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u179	Of course, Mr. Prime Minister, it is not in question the kindness of some of these aspirations but the inability of its realization with this Budget or, otherwise, the incredibility of the budget values vis-à-vis the promised one. In any case, in this matter only the budget lived, i.e. the budget executed, will become evident what may be true and what is wrong today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u180	All right! [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u181	Therefore, the question I would like to put to Mr Prime Minister is in another area, in higher education and science, and it is related to the strange conditionalities that Article 23. the proposed State Budget Law 2016 imposes the autonomy of higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u183	There's a need for discharge! [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u184	Recruitment in higher education institutions corresponds, as has been the case for a long time, to management options arising from their activity, within the framework of university autonomy and depending on the financial availability they hold.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u185	You should have had that right a year and a half ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u186	The restrictions laid down in paragraph 3 in particular constitute a discriminatory framework for the other autonomous institutions of the Public Administration. For example, see Article 30. the, in which the contracting proposals in municipalities in a situation of sanitation or ruin have to go to the municipal assembly. In the case of few universities and polytechnics, under the conditions of paragraph 3, whose situation can, of course, never be compared with situations of sanitation or failure, who decides the tenders for employment? The Management Board? Don't! The general council? Don't! [[PS protests.]] The monitoring and budgetary control group provided for in paragraph 5 as a form, shall we say, regulatory? Don't! Mr Minister who has exclusive competence over higher education and science? Don't! It's not enough! [[PS protests.]] A teacher's employment in the institutions listed must go to the Minister of Protection and the Minister of Finance to decide together! And why? Why are there debts? No, no debts! Higher education institutions have no debts, some balance, some of them. Why was there bad management? No, there was no bad management! The main problem of higher education institutions with difficulties is demographic development and non-model financing. They are not factors that control, they cannot be attributed to mismanagement, so it is not right for them to withdraw autonomy to the extent that their budget is withdrawn. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Mr Prime Minister, in conclusion, I ask: does the government not believe in the autonomy of universities and politicians? This is the question I would like to put to you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u187	Mr Jorge Falcato Simões has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u188	Mr President, Prime Minister, as you know, the expectation that this government solution has created with people with disabilities has been, and is still enormous. The expectation of people with disabilities is that they will change their policies and leave a care policy in the past and turn to a policy in which the rights of people with disabilities are recognized.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u190	A policy in which it is recognised that the problem to be solved in the area of disability is to recognize that these citizens and citizens are not citizens of a second age and that they need to have and see recognised rights, like any other citizen. There is a clear turn of page in this Budget, but it is a clear turn of page for most people, because for people with disabilities it has not occurred. There are two concrete measures in the Budget that particularly affect disabled people in the immediate future: an increase in the deduction to the collection, at the IRS headquarters, for families with dependants, whether they are ascending or descending, however, we forget to increase the deduction to the collection of disabled workers and pensioners; and an increase in the assistance allowance for third persons, which we recognize to be very important, but there was no increase in the social disability pensions, nor in the monthly life support. The Budget Report also reveals some good intentions, with which we agree, and I stress, among them, a unique benefit that will — I hope and the disabled — take these people out of their poverty. We hope that people with disabilities and their families will not live below the poverty line and that they will finally be recognized the right to have a minimally dignified life. But this will only happen in 2017. So, until then, what's going to happen? Do people with disabilities continue to have income below the poverty threshold? Not just below the poverty threshold, but 50% below the poverty threshold? We hope that in the debate on the speciality we will find solutions, measures that will restore some economic power to people with disabilities and their families. Indeed, it is time for disabled people to stop being the poorest of the poor, not only because they have very low incomes, but because they have more expenses than most people. Question: are we going to find measures, in the focus of discussion in the specialty, to really change this situation? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u191	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u192	Mr President, Prime Minister, PSD and CDS-PP are attacking this State budget by seeking to hide by all means the consequences of its policy of dismantling State social functions. All that they repeated until exhaustion on inevitability fell to the ground and, after all, did not go beyond the political option of PSD and CDS-PP, as resulted from the positive measures contained in the State budget that we are discussing today. PSD and CDS-PP were responsible for closing, concentrating and reducing public services, transferring more health and education costs to families and delivering public sectors to the private sphere, depriving Portuguese of their rights, not safeguarding national interests, in particular with regard to economic and social development and progress. In the last four years, what the Portuguese felt was more difficult to access their rights. There are more than a million users without a family doctor and the family nurse hardly left the paper. Oncological patients have abandoned treatment and therapy due to economic deficiency. Patients were affected by high waiting times for care in a hospital emergency or for consultations, examinations or surgeries. Higher education students have abandoned the frequency of courses due to economic shortage. There are students with special needs without adequate follow-up. Thousands of children lost the family allowance and the elderly lost the support for the elderly. Artistic creation structures and a rich cultural heritage were left behind. This is the concrete reality of our country. This is the reality that PSD and CDS-PP left. Madam President, Prime Minister, fortunately, the struggle of workers, reformers and the people did not allow PSD and CDS-PP to continue in government and opened doors to a new political phase, which allows us today to discuss the recovery of income and rights rather than new budget cuts in the social functions of the State, as we would be if PSD and CDS-PP were in government. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u193	The state budget proposal for 2016 shows that a different path is possible from that which has been pursued over the past four years and that it is possible to strengthen the social functions of the State. Being still far from the policy proposed by the CFP to the people and the country, in the proposal for the State Budget we identified several positive measures, for which the CFP also contributed, such as: the progressive reduction of moderate rates and the extension of its exemptions; the extension of valences in primary health care, with regard to oral or visual health; the start of the path for the universalization of preschool from three years; the strengthening of social action and artistic education; the extension of the allocation of family allowance, the solidarity complement for the elderly and the social income of insertion. Mr President, Prime Minister, it is true that investment in the social functions of the State is still far from what would be necessary to ensure everyone's right to health, social protection, education or access to culture and knowledge. We reiterate our disagreement about the prospect of municipalization in these areas. There are, however, many aspects in which we consider it possible to go further, which could be improved and which would solve concrete problems for thousands and thousands of people. Among other things, we referred to the need to consider the exemption from moderate rates on the basis of chronic and not chronic disease, which would eliminate some of the existing injustices, the implementation of concrete measures to extend the allocation of transport of non-emergency patients, the impediment to the increase of propins, the progressive freeness of school textbooks or the advance of increased investment in culture and science. We understand that, in the field of expertise, it is possible to deepen this debate. of the PCP, the Portuguese have our total commitment to defend the social functions of the state and to ensure that constitutional social rights are effectively fulfilled and that the right to development is a reality. This is our commitment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u194	For the last request for clarification of this round, Mr Nuno Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u195	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister said that this was the budget that he wanted to turn the page of austerity. Unfortunately, Mr. Prime Minister, not only did he not see this page, as, worse yet, it worsens it, and especially worsens it in the areas of Portuguese production, severely conditioning what is the performance of our exporting economy, as is the example of the national agricultural sector. Mr Prime Minister, as you should know, the food sector is worth more than 12 % of the overall value of national exports. It has grown 7% a year in the last two years and this success is due, firstly, to farmers, but also to a policy with a strategic vision for the previous government sector that has enabled them to create the essential tools for these producers to be more competitive in the global market.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u196	And Alqueva, who was the white elephant?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u197	This competitiveness goes, on the one hand, by being more differentiated, through investment mechanisms, and on the other, by being more profitable, through low production costs. Well, Mr Prime Minister, you can only sit here and say, with tremendous effectiveness, that all this competitiveness of the Portuguese agricultural sector is involved and therefore the effort of thousands of national producers and the dynamism that this sector has been experiencing over the past four years. The Prime Minister has managed, in a totally out-of-date view of reality, to increase the cost of context for this sector, through green gas oil — which has not been increased for 10 years and, curiously, has also been increased by a socialist government — and will therefore affect the profitability of national production and harm its external competitiveness. But also, a seat managed to reduce the funds for investment, which, in this State budget, is reduced by almost EUR 200 million, and to withdraw the possibility for farmers to be more differentiated, more productive and more competitive. Mr Prime Minister, looking at these first months of government and this State budget presented, we do not see a single measure that meets the needs of national producers, agriculture and this sector. On the contrary, this State budget seems to be an appeal to imports and to the discredit of our agriculture. Mr Prime Minister, because we do not want to stay here with the impression that we have returned to the times of the socialist governments that have abandoned and despised agriculture and because we are in budget office, and I have already said that we are only talking about Budget, I ask you whether there, in your pocket, you have a measure—I am no longer asking two or three, but one — to make this sector really more competitive, so that those who hear us out there and those who hear us here do not think that the real intention of this socialist government is to ruin the competitiveness of our agri-food sector. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u198	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer this set of speakers, and I also welcome you this first time I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u199	Madam President, it is a great pleasure to receive the floor from you. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nuno Serra, let us now clarify the simple things. First, we are in a context where the cost of fuels has come down and where, therefore, the price of gas and gasoline, after these increases, will be the same as the price of gas and gasoline last July. As far as agricultural gas oil is concerned, it will increase by half, or rather the ISP will increase by 50 % less than the common gas oil will have, i.e. an increase of 3 cents instead of 6 cents, and this amount will be allocated to the financing of national participation in Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u200	It's a 'take it there, give it here'!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u201	Why would it be?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u202	Why would it be? For a fundamental reason: because it was fully consumed in 2015, Mrs Deputy, with great intelligence by V. Exa, all the margin that was to be spent and use Community funds, without national funds,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... by making this government to use Community funds have to ensure national participation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was your intelligence, I just have to congratulate, but you must realize it's our cost! But, congratulations, the intelligence was yours! Mr Nuno Serra, looking at the 2015 Budget and the 2016 Budget, will verify that the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture increases by a total of EUR 114 million, 62 million of which result from an increase in investment. Mrs Margarida Mano, I am very grateful for the question, not so much about the part relating to higher education, where you can verify, with a more careful reading, that, with regard to the problems you have raised, it is exactly the same standard that came from the 2015 Budget. The change from 2015 to 2016 was the one in which it also repaired and which now allows higher education establishments, within their resources, to unlock the contracts that have long been blocked and that are essential to combat the precariousness of young researchers in particular. With regard to the budget of the Ministry of Education, I will make some notes. Firstly, if you do not take account of the EUR 110 million captivating, you will find that there is no reduction of EUR 82 million in the budget but, on the contrary, an increase of EUR 28 million. Secondly, if we compare the budget ceiling for basic and secondary education between 2015 and 2016, it will verify that this year we increased this ceiling by EUR 70 million and will, above all, verify how this means an investment of the cycle, which, between 2011 and 2012, the budget of the Ministry of Education decreased by 3, 2 %, which, between 2012 and 2013, has decreased again by 3, 3 %, 3 %, 4 %, which, from 2014 to 2015, has still managed to lower by 4, 1 %, and all these declines were obviously cumulative. On the contrary, it will verify that this year what we have is an increase of 5, 5 % in the 2015 budget for 2016, which means a first small step to put back what is essential : to strengthen investment in education in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Paula Santos and Mr Jorge Falcato, we share your concerns and I hope that, in the field of expertise, it will be possible to find a measure that is not yet one-off but that can respond better to people with disabilities who work and that the benefit is not only for families with disabilities who do not work. It is also an important incentive for employability to extend this support to those who work. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u203	Secondly, we will also make an effort to, in the field of expertise, how we have been working with the CFP, to strengthen and improve the working conditions of our Public Administration. But, as you pointed out, and well, in this debate, instead of discussing new cuts, we are happy to discuss how to move forward in improving our public services. And this is what makes the difference between austerity and what is not austerity, because, for many words games that the PSD and CDS use, accounts are simple to make: increased family income, EUR 1372 million; new tax revenues, EUR 600 million;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u204	2000 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u205	... a balance of more than EUR 700 million for the benefit of families. And that's what it means to turn the austerity page, it's to give more income to families. They constantly confuse hiding that taxes weigh less on the economy than they weighed last year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u206	2000 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u207	... that they weigh, above all, less in the economy than what they committed to in Brussels, and that the income of families increases EUR 700 million. This, yes, is the beginning of the turn of the austerity page, and will be demonstrated and proved during this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u208	Let us now enter the period of intervention. For an intervention by the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u209	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister (withdrawn temporarily from the Chamber, I think), Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: This State budget for 2016, which has already been everything and its opposite, is the sole responsibility of the socialist government by tactical option, deliberate three months ago. The Socialist Party has chosen the path that it intended to follow. The Socialist Party has chosen the partners who have understood to serve their contextual view of national interest. The Socialist Party has chosen to pay the price required by the parties to support this government solution. With these choices, the Socialist Party distorts its memory, distorts its tradition, distorts its motherly soul. The Socialist Party is today a broken party with itself, it is a party that is a hostage of partners with whom it has, or with whom it has had in the past, background divergences in structural matters of its strategic vision for Portugal. in this commitment of « given word, honest word », the country has come to see the adoption of bold and discretionary measures that integrate the book of charges of the partners of this a la carte coalition. They are measures that are part of a campaign that is soon to remove the main milestones of structural transformation implemented in recent years. And this Budget inserts itself in this drift to which we assist. It is a budget which does not reflect a clear strategy, either from an economic point of view or from a financial point of view, and which does not seem to comply with the restrictions we have. It is an inadequate budget for a medium-term strategy. It is a budget that does not support a coherent development and growth strategy. We understand that the Budget presented is characterized by the absence of strategy, because it is not possible to sign a strategy when measures are agglomerated in large part dictated by those who have a peripheral thought inconclusive with the shape in which they are betting. It is not possible to be a Europeanist and want to destroy Europe. It is not possible to want budgetary balance and financial rigour and at the same time to spend more money than you have. And there are no miracles of multiplication. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a budget that brings tax improvisation. This lack of fiscal strategy and predictability poses a threat to taxpayers, economic agents and investors and consequently constitutes a threat to economic growth, job creation and investment capture. This budget does not lead the country to the medium and long-term policies that the country needs. We need policies that attract external direct investment and that is not done if we undermine the trust and credibility that we have recovered in recent years. It is not made with debt restructuring announcements. It is not done by cancelling contracts that guarantee external investment. We need policies that guarantee investors and companies predictability, stability and conditions of competitiveness, which is not done with the backwardness of the commitments signed on IRC, with the reversal of labour law, with the worsening of the conditions of recapitalisation of companies, with the increase of IMI for trade and industry, with the increase of costs with electronic payment. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Budget redistributes austerity instead of following the gradual path of its removal. And in this redistribution exercise penalizes with taxes and contributions the middle class and companies, thus affecting what is said to be the development engine in which the PS says it bets: domestic consumption. Internal consumption, which claimed to be a booster of the economy, remains, for 2016, with a homologous variation to 2015. It is therefore a restrictive budget and still the procession goes on the stand.... Are we discussing PEC 1 today? And tomorrow the PEC 2, perhaps already adjusted in Brussels? In April, with the Stability Programme, we will be discussing the PEC 3? Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Government members : In the current scenario, markets are sending us very worrying signals, to which the government should pay more attention. The Portuguese interest rate at 10 years in secondary markets at the end of last week showed an increase of 55 % compared to that of one year ago. In the same period, Ireland fell by 20 %, Italy rose by only 3 % and Spain rose by 20 %, reflecting the government indefinition. When we look at the spread in front of Germany we see that it has already increased 75, 2 %. The last minister of Socialist Finance, who forced the request for external aid, had established the level of 7 % for the 10-year interest rate as the limit of the supportable for the country. How much does the current Minister for Finance set this limit?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u210	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u211	Can the Minister of Finance tell us who still buys and sells Portuguese debt in the secondary market? Who is buying and selling Portuguese debt in the secondary market? How are the ECB's ( European Central Bank ) intervention limits on Portuguese debt? Are we already within the limits set by the ECB or not? Commissioner Moscovici said that confidence in markets must be restored and structural reforms relaunched in order to have a more competitive economy. What does this injunction mean to the government? Continue to reverse concessions and nationalize companies? Reverting labour legislation, which is already one of the strictest of our economic context? Restructuring the debt by requirement of the Left Block and the PCP? Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The signs that are being given to businesses, consumers and investors are disturbing. They are hostile to the confidence that we need to continue the course we have drawn in recent years with a development and growth strategy for Portugal, which has generated results that should be a cause of pride for any Portuguese without exception. We have made a path with the economy to grow, with job creation, with investment uptake, with a reduction in the level of global indebtedness of businesses and families and more recently in 2015 of the State. And as disclosed last week, with the external balance to be increased in 2015. The growth we were recording was balanced and pointed to the right direction. It is this direction that we do not want to be destroyed after the many difficulties we have experienced and the effort that families and businesses have been making.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u213	The Portuguese know that it is necessary to create wealth to redistribute. And this is the order: first, it creates wealth and then it is redistributed. And it is never more to remember that it was a socialist government that brought austerity to Portugal in 2010. It was a socialist government that cut wages and pensions, which frozen the minimum order and minimum social and rural pensions. It's over with the 4th. o and 5. the steps of the family allowance and frozen the rest, among many other measures that affected the most unprotected. We must not forget that it was the obstinacy of a socialist government that persisted in a model of development based on non-reproductive public investment, which in the past has already given evidence that does not promote growth, that does not create jobs, that does not capture investment and that has no multiplier effect. The prizes « have no money to pay wages or pensions » and « call the troika » also go to a socialist government, to the socialist government itself. We, PSD, have pride in our convictions, we have pride in our ideological matrix, we are social democrats today, as we went yesterday and we will be tomorrow. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u214	For this reason, in the policy that we implemented in the four years of Portugal's recovery on external intervention, we gradually distributed the effort, protecting those who can and ask for greater effort. We in the PSD have pride in the work that we have secured in the last legislature. It was a PSD/CDS coalition government that led a political strategy that allowed Portugal, anchored in the effort to adjust families and in the ability to adapt companies, to create context conditions that allow us to gradually remove austerity. Let those who think they are the champions of the removal of austerity be disengaged. The austerity that can be removed today is the one that, because of the context conditions, the policy of the previous government guaranteed Portugal. The merit is not of the current government, it is of the Portuguese, it is of the families, it is of the entrepreneurs and it is of the workers. But the merit is also a government and a majority PSD / CDS-PP, who have managed to assume their responsibilities by a credible and attractive Portugal, with growth and job creation, with conditions of return on income and unemployment, with investment and financing, with investment in people and in promoting equal opportunities. Here I cannot but highlight the drop in school dropout rate from almost 30 % in 2010 to 13, 7% in 2015. The results that Portugal has achieved in recent years are good for Portuguese, are good for families and are good for businesses. And what's good for Portuguese, families and businesses is good for Portugal and is also good for PSD. Because we in the PSD are patriots and we defend our country, we defend within and outside Portugal, but we disagree on this direction and oppose this non-strategy. We regret the risk to be guessed. We do not resign and we do not disappoint the almost 40% of Portuguese who voted in us. There were times when the PS would understand the crucial importance of the preservation of credibility and the trust we achieved in the last legislation. And today, does the PS understand? There were times when the PS understood that there are economic models, development models that are incompatible, that there are designs and desires that are incompatible with what is the common denominator of most Portuguese. Do you understand today? Understanding whether or not the Portuguese Government, the Government of the Socialist Party is solely responsible for the 2016 Budget, which will be approved in this House. It is up to you to make the choices of budgetary, financial and economic policy that you understand and then take responsibility for the results you achieve. We continue to believe that Budget is a piece that should not be deverted. If there is a political orientation, if there is a financial orientation, an economic orientation which the PS wants to see achieved in this Budget will be the PS which will guarantee it. We will be neutral in relation to the changes and modifications that will be made to this Budget. And in the rest, we oppose each other. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u215	Two Mrs were registered. Members for requests for clarification. Does Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho want to answer individually or together?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u216	Madam President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u217	You then have the floor to Mrs Joana Mortágua to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u218	Madam President, Mrs Deputies, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has announced today the same thing that Mrs Deputies here have said that the PSD will vote against the Budget and will refrain from presenting any alternative proposal to this Budget. The country was thus left to know what kind of opposition the PSD wants it to be. PSD has no ideas, no proposals. The country learned that the PSD only knows it's against it, that it's an opposition to protest. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] The country learned that the PSD does not want to have responsibilities, that the PSD washes the hands of the country's destinations and is on the bench betting on failure. This is the opposition of the bota-bassism, it is the opposition of those who want to be here only the clique of the European Commission and of Mrs Merkel. I ask you, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho : what is the real reason for this absence of the PSD in the debate on the State budget? Is it tactical and partying? Is it beer? Or is it really because of conviction? Tell me, Mrs. Member: when you stand up to vote against this budget, why are you going to do so? Is it because the Budget is constitutional? Is that what demotivates and irritates the PSD, i.e. voting a budget that meets the Constitution? Or vote against the Budget because it returns wages and pensions? That is why we know that the PSD will vote against this budget because it is against wages and pensions. We learned that when it was about to cut, the PSD was about to approve. Now, which is to return rights, the PSD here is to reprove and churn the Budget. But why does the PSD stand aside from this debate? Why have you announced that you're going to throw the towel on the floor, that you're going to make beer and you're not making any proposals in the specialty? They do not make proposals because they would have nothing more to present than what they have already presented to the country: higher taxes, cuts in wages, overtax of the IRS and asphyxiation of public services. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] They hide the proposals for electoralism, for pure electoralism, because the mask to Pedro Passos Coelho would fall very quickly. The PSD wants to hide what it defends and what it applied when it was government. We want to know whether they remain silent, then, by electoralism or by a bad conscience, because they are sorry about the slogan « austerity always». The tactic seems to be, after all, hiding the conviction. The tactic seems to be, after all, by electoralism, hiding that they applied austerity to the country by conviction, not because they had no alternative. But the real pearl of Pedro Passos Coelho's statements is the claim that this government is pyromanic. Mrs Deputy, who has set the country on fire is the financial system, and in this fire the right-wing government has shot not gas oil, but has burned many million euros of public money, money from workers and pensioners in this country. And he did so with the sponsorship of the Governor of Banco de Portugal, who does not even arrive for forest watchers to fire this fire in the financial markets. In Banif, PSD and CDS put public money, but they never protected it. At BES they made the expense, paid the bill and lied to the Portuguese. They told taxpayers that they would pay nothing, that they would pay the Resolution Fund. Whose eyes were they trying to throw sand at? Who were you trying to cheat? The Resolution Fund is public and whoever put money there was the State, because when the time came to pay, the banks turned their backs and went outside. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is EUR 2900 million that the taxpayers put there! And I challenge the honourable Member to ensure here, with the seriousness that the government has never had in this regard, if the banks will ever pay a tenth of what the taxpayers have lent them. Therefore, if it is electoralism, it is not worth it, because we all know that that plan b, with which they are concerned, is actually your plan a. But if it is for a bad conscience, if it is for repentance, I ask the honourable Member if she considers herself to start apologizing to the Portuguese and Portuguese. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u219	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, I believe that the Democratic Social Party is in this debate not only with some problems of amnesia over the past four years, but with a huge contradiction between what each of the speakers in this debate has already said. As soon as he says that we increase austerity, as soon as he also says that we are irresponsible and we will not be able to meet the goals. But, Mrs. Member, none of this would be strange if Dr. Passos, four years ago, did not want to go beyond the troika and if Dr. Rabbit, today, was so worn out and so disappointed with austerity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is that this Budget, then, should really please Dr. Rabbit, because this Budget, yes, reduces austerity and this Budget, yes, restores the incomes of the people you have deprived for four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And when we hear today the PSD leader, we wonder if this will even be a new man. He defended, swore and proclaimed that there was only the path of austerity. It is proven, with this budget, ladies and gentlemen. Members in the country and Brussels who were kneeling in Brussels were the PSD and the CDS and not the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, it is possible to reduce the dose of austerity by keeping European commitments. It is possible to reduce austerity by giving the Portuguese better living conditions, by fulfilling their commitments with the voters, by fulfilling their commitments with their left-wing partners in this Parliament and by meeting the Constitution, which you have so often disrespected. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when I hear the honourable Member from that rostrum and the austere altar, say again that the PSD has pride in the brand it leaves, I should say that I should ask all the Portuguese people who have been poorer, the 30% of the children who are poorer today, the unemployed, those who have suffered because of austerity are proud of the trail that you have left. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But today we have a Rabbit Steps, the new man who proclaims and swears to defend social democracy always — the honourable Member has also begged him to do so — and I just wonder what social democracy is that which is what the markets are and which goes after the markets, which he thinks the European Commission is sovereign and has to impose austerity and that impoverishment is the only possible way for the Portuguese. Maybe, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be good if amnesia did not exist, because the Portuguese are well aware of what you have left behind today. When the PSD has fled, during the election campaign, to say what it was coming and when it is now refusing to make proposals for amendments to the budget in the specialty, I do not want to believe that it is because of the work that they would have to do, but because they do not make a contribution to this debate as well. I ask you, Madam Member, if you are available to answer six very simple questions. Are you or do you not agree with the refund of cuts in the salaries of the public service or do you think these cuts would be to maintain, as the PSD wanted? Do you agree with the VAT reduction in the restaurant or would you prefer it to remain at 23 %? Do you agree with the pension update or would you prefer that if you continue to cut 600 million euros a year? Do you agree with the replacement of social minimums to improve living conditions or would you like to impoverish the Portuguese more? Are you either in agreement with the corporate capitalisation unit or would you prefer to continue suffocating them for how long? Are you or do you not agree with the tax relief on families or do you want to continue to crush the middle class with the successive increase in taxes? The gentlemen. Members resign themselves from putting forward proposals — nothing new — but do not resign today from responding, not by electoralism, but only because the Portuguese also want to know, after all, that social-democracy is what has not existed in the past four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u221	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u222	In reply, Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u223	Madam President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, I understand that the honourable Member does not understand the reasons for the PSD, but I do not believe that Mrs Joana Mortágua does not know what the State budget for 2016 of the PSD would be if the PSD, following the last elections and the will of the people, about 40% of the Portuguese who were voted, was today government, as it began to be after the last elections. The honourable Member is new in this Parliament as a Member... [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] ... and, most likely, was not here in the legislature in which Eng. José Socrates, Prime Minister, took a set of measures that led this country to the tragic circumstance of Eng. José Socrates himself, of the Socialist Party's own government having to cut wages and pensions. Perhaps you do not know this past of Portugal, which is a recent past and which has determined that we should take a set of measures subscribed by the Socialist Party - I would like to stress it again - along with the troika. Who brought the troika to Portugal was the Socialist Party, with whom you are associated today to implement the same model of development that led us in 2011 to that absolutely dramatic situation for Portugal, for families, for Portuguese and for businesses. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] It is precisely in this context, in the context of bankruptcy, that the Social Democratic Party and the CDS-PP assumed their governance responsibilities and, without hesitation and with determination, applied what is a program, by which they were conditioned because of the PS, because of the need to borrow money to pay wages and pensions. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a recent fact! It was not necessarily the gentlemen who were left without wages and pensions, was it not? And it wasn't why?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u224	What about my grandmother? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u225	Why didn't you get out of pay and pensions? Precisely because the Government of the Socialist Party adjusted the Memorandum of Understanding and brought the troika and the money that paid the wages and pensions, in that context of 2011. [[What a mess!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u226	Therefore, Mrs Joana Mortagua, the alternative we have for Portugal is very clear. It's very clear and it's been scolded. She was polled and collected more than 40% of the voters' votes, those voters who voted for Pedro Passos Coelho to be Prime Minister and Paulo Portas Vice Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u227	The speech of the honourable Member needs a wrong one!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u228	This is contrary to what happened to the voters who voted in the Left Block. The voters who voted in the Left Block were basically wrong. [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think they weren't wrong? What was the announcement previously made to the electoral act, in order to create such a coalition? That is why, Mrs. Deputy, the alternative is known to the Portuguese, was inspected by the Portuguese. We assume our ideas, you guys don't take yours. You, despite being against what is the main matrix of the Socialist Party, are associated with the Socialist Party. So, two of them: either you are ashamed of your ideas and want to give up them, or the Socialist Party understands today to absorb the ideas of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u229	He's already fighting ideas!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u230	It's all set up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u231	In conclusion, Mrs Joana Mortágua, and why did you talk about what the Left Block changed from here to this plenary to the Commission Chamber, when you promised to approve the constitution of an external audit and then, when you arrived at the Commission Chamber, you forgot that promise?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u232	That's settled!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u233	Did you tell me the truth when? Did you tell the truth here or did you tell the truth there? Will this withdrawal from an external audit be charged to the Socialist Party? What are the reasons for the withdrawal of this external audit? Will it be part of the deal? It is possible that it is part of the agreement. Is it serious for the Left Block not to want an audit, as it has committed itself, and even if it has not committed itself? Should not transparency and material truth be achieved through an external audit? Perhaps it is better to go on the way to the external audit and not be systematically denouncing the banking system as the cause of all the evils. We cannot do this if we do not use the appropriate instruments to effectively monitor this same banking system. Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes, there is no amnesia on this side and there is no amnesia on that side either. And since there was no amnesia on this side, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes remembers that day when the Party to which the Socialist Party belongs signed the Memorandum of Understanding and brought the troika and the austerity measures. But even before signing this Memorandum of Understanding, even before that day, in 2011, it is certainly remembered when in 2010 they cut wages, although first in 2009 they increased them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u234	And who did you put that little piece in? The honourable Member has also voted for this article!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u235	And why? Why, first, did they increase? Because they were on election Eves. And yet they have not achieved the ideal result in these elections. In fact, they increased the salaries of public servants, increased pensioners' pensions, and then went to vote. After they went to the vote, the outcome came out. And what did they do then? Exactly the opposite: they cut wages and cut into the national health system. Do you want me to answer why we understand that our journey is a social-democratic journey? Because, despite the constraints we inherited, despite what we had to do, we were not beyond the troika. [[No, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u236	Why does the honourable Member use that expression? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u237	The troika is that it was not sufficiently informed about the numbers underlying the Adjustment Programme. It is because, if the honourable Member remembers correctly, there was a debt under the carpet, there was a budgeted debt, there was a lot of debt that was not in the package that was presented by the Socialist Government to the troika. And that's why that adjustment had to be made. But it was done with flexibility of goals so that measures regarding Portuguese would not be aggravated. Therefore, it is not worth repeating that we have gone beyond the troika—it is false! We must assume responsibility for having declared ourselves to the troika values which were not real, from the point of view of debt and deficit. Finally, let me tell you that we, in these four and a half years, saved the social state, saved the National Health Service. [[PS laughter.]] You left a debt in the National Health Service that was absolutely unbearable. And I think they're going the same way. I believe that, with the increase in expenditure, without there being an increase in the corresponding revenue necessary to cover this expenditure, they will end up, once again, not paying the invoices of what they hire. But it was precisely this situation that we inherited from the National Health Service and it was precisely one of the tasks that we carried out quite efficiently. Therefore, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes, we are proud of what we have done in these four and a half years. And we were recognized — we were recognized inside and outside the country. We were recognized within the country, when we won the elections, and we were recognized outside the country, when we were called « heroes-surprise». [[Heroes-surprise?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u238	Yes, heroes-surprising! [[PS laughter.]] You certainly don't remember. True, you don't remember anymore! If we have been called ‘heroes-surprise’ by the results you do not want to remember. Not long ago, Mr. Prime Minister was at a press conference with Mr. Merkel and, because he is a patriot, he was very proud when Mrs. Merkel suggested that he continue the excellent work done and the results achieved by the former Prime Minister and the former Government. I have no doubt you were happy with that. Therefore, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes, it is not worth repeating misgivings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u239	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u240	The reverses don't pass. The Portuguese have a clear perception of what the results were and therefore we have won the elections. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u241	For an intervention, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u242	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you do not know what to say in a good budget, you invent. And they invent contradictory and truly extraordinary things: they say that it gives everything to everyone or gives nothing to anyone; that it is unwise and, at the same time, excessively austere. We have even heard this terrible thing from Mr Nuno Magalhães, who has invented a new definition of tax burden, which is this: if the revenue collected increases, the tax burden increases. According to this logic, this would make Victor Gaspar, in 2012, the Minister of Finance always best friends of the taxpayer, because despite raising taxes by more than EUR 2000 million because of the recession, the tax revenue fell 700 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, it is explained why the CDS looks so proud of the policies of the past. They think that the fall in tax revenue is equivalent to the fall in tax burden — and it is not, Mr President! Those who say this are not talking about this State Budget, but about making their embarrassment public because they do not know what to say about a Family Friendly Budget and its income. That's what it's really hard for them to admit. On a not very far-reaching State budget, he said his highest responsibility, today, as much as it costs him, former Prime Minister: it is a budget that thinks about what the country really needs, that reaches sensible and coherent balances between targets for deficit, fiscal revenue, expenditure and a realistic macroeconomic scenario—no more, no less. It has happened that with this budget, which was said to be of income recovery, the following happened: the tax burden has not fallen, has increased; the refund of the overtax, which was supposed to be a contract of trust with the Portuguese, revealed, after all, another achievement; the families have paid no less taxes, paid more taxes and in a more unfair way, because the introduction of the family quota and the extension of the deductions within IRS, which benefited both the families and the more income they had and that they were the only tax relief measures in that budget, were entirely financed with the increase of taxes — yes, they were entirely financed with the increase of taxes! The so-called 'green taxation', among many other measures, increased the price of fuels by 6 cents and last year I did not hear any PSD or CDS Members say that the apocalypse was coming here because the fuel increased by 6 cents! [[P.S.'s applause.]] They increased the same last year than they did in this year. With one difference: we returned much, but much more income than you returned last year. And I am not saying that last year there was no fiscal relief; it was the former Prime Minister Steps Rabbit, in this House, when he presented the State Budget. The former Prime Minister Dr. Passos Coelho guarantees that the increases in indirect taxes, against which he now calls, were: firstly, "an essential pillar of a sustainable growth strategy" — now, a year later, they are the end of the world; then they were betting on a "change of behaviour and incentives for a more efficient approach to the use of resources" — today that is environmental fascism or paternalism or I don't know very well what they say. They would then say that the Green Taxation Guarantee — and listen carefully, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! — tax neutrality, i.e., takes the family quotient there, takes the deductions there and gives the green taxation here. That is what the previous government was saying, and this is significantly different from what this budget says this year. If this budget, which did not lower taxes and aggravate the injustice in the distribution of income, was a friend of the families and started a path of recovery of income, then what does this budget say? This budget increases the income of families by 2, 5 %; it lowers the tax burden by 2015, irrespective of the indicator used ; it clearly lowers the tax burden vis-à-vis the former Prime Minister's commitment in Brussels ; it increases the national minimum wage by €530, benefiting 650 000 Portuguese; it ensures that the reduction of the over-tax is 50 % or more to 98 % of the family aggregates; it ensures the replacement of the social minimums and the purchasing power of pensioners — RSI, CSI, family allowances, assistance allowance to third person, retirement pensions, pension supplements and extraordinary solidarity contribution. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all this is, in this budget, efficiency increases that PSD and CDS not only defended as opposed and apparently continue to oppose. But this budget does more: it reduces the moderate rates by 25 % — about EUR 40 million entering the family purse — it ends with the pay cuts in the public service, which you wanted to keep for another four years, and also reduces the VAT on the restoration. The State budget which we are debating today, however far as they say otherwise, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it even represents a turning point in the policies of austerity and impoverishment of recent years. It is therefore natural that the right does not like this budget and speaks of imaginary budgets, because this State budget does what no previous budget has done and does also what the PSD and CDS budgets (if they were still in government) would never do: it increases the income of families by about EUR 1500 million, if we join the VAT of restoration — almost triple the increase in indirect taxes — and distribute these EUR 1500 million fairly. [[Rice from CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] Yes, Mr Nuno Magalhães, restoration is, above all, a family business and, when we descend the VAT of restoration, it is natural that this goes to the family bag, no matter how much it costs you and how much you laugh. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thank you very much, Mr President. I already know that you think it's a grace to reality and that you prefer the fiction in which you live, but if you don't mind, I'm going back to reality. This budget mainly benefits the lower half of Portuguese income, improving justice in the distribution of these incomes, combating poverty and social exclusion, than the honourable Members. PSD and CDS members increased for four years and wanted to continue to increase for another four years. This budget also restores constitutional normality, ending the illegal cuts in wages. PSD and CDS not only did not want to increase family income by EUR 1500 million as they had committed in Brussels with a cut of EUR 600 million in pensions. If they swear that it was not a cut, as they have often said, then there is only one alternative: it was an increase in tax and it remains to know which. They have until the end of the budget debate to explain to the Portuguese that taxes would then increase. Or would they fail to comply with what they had agreed with Brussels? It was an explanation they could give, and they have another day to do it. The answer to this question of tax increase remains a mystery that PSD and CDS refuse to reveal. But the record of the previous government and of the parties that composed it leaves some clues, because it is known that they wanted to give priority to the fall of taxes, not to families, but to large companies. That is why they wanted to reduce the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector paid by EDP and REN by half this year. Who led this proposal? The Socialist Party, the PCP, the Block and the Greens. They also wanted to maintain the exemption in the taxation of funds within IMI and IMT and we ended this exemption, Mrs. Members; they did not create the safeguard clause to protect families from IMI increases; they did not increase taxes on the financial sector by around EUR 100 million, divided between seal taxes and contributions on the banking sector. Therefore, much that they try will not turn this Budget into previous budgets, such as 2015, and in what would be the Budget for 2016, if PSD and CDS were still in power. There is no redistribution of austerity, yes, there is a reduction in austerity, because the overwhelming majority of families, either by tax or by public expenditure, of wages and social benefits, will have more income and not less, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. As much as they say otherwise, this budget even increases the income of families in almost triple the increase in taxes. I know it costs, but it's the truth, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] PSD and CDS always said that such a thing would not be possible, that it was a fantasy and did everything in public and in the shadow, in Portuguese and abroad, so that this Budget would not move forward and their desires would become reality. First, they bet that the government would never have the support of its partners on the left—and they were wrong. Then, they hit a government trying to negotiate the budget in Brussels, tried to weaken its negotiating power and did everything imaginable, but, above all, regrettably, they did the unimaginable so that the State budget would be plunged or sufficiently altered to distort it—and again failed. Finally, already desperate, they put everything in the rage of markets and rating agencies—and failed again. The strategy of systematic boycott on the right of Portugal failed across the line, for the sake of the Portuguese country and families. The defeat of the right therefore represents a victory for the country. After four years of impoverishment, which four others would follow, the new government, with parliamentary support from all over the left, says enough! » and it really changes politics, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. And he does what he says, which has also been a novelty in recent years, which must not fail to be marked: fulfilling the Constitution, fulfilling the government's electoral and programme commitments, fulfilling the commitments with the parties on our left, fulfilling our international commitments. It is a Budget that fulfills all that has been promised. Here is the truth of this Budget which the right does not bear. But do PSD and CDS stand for this outcome? They can endure, they can endure, because they have no alternative and, above all, they would not know what alternative to propose! [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u243	Two honourable Members were registered for requests for clarification. Members and Mr Galamba have informed the Bureau that they want to answer together. Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, it has been agreed and announced that, from the moment that Members no longer have time—and that is the case of Mr Galamba—they would start to be discounted tomorrow's times, as is the case in all the discussions of the State budget in general, as will the ladies and gentlemen know. Members who have been in Parliament longer. You have the floor, Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u244	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Galamba, I would like to begin by congratulating the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on its choice of you to make this first fundamental intervention by the Socialist Party on this State Budget. And I wanted to do it for two reasons. The first is because, in fact, in a budget which has such a large hold of the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens Ecological Party who is better than that Member who, apparently, is closer to this radical left to make this intervention! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u246	The first question I would like to ask you is whether you agree with the Left Block as well — because it was in the past and I wanted to know whether it is now still in agreement — about the withdrawal they want to make from Syriza. It is that the Left Block has already taken off the Syriza, has already taken off Mr. Tcipras. Mr. João Galamba still believes in the recipe that they wanted to approve in Greece and that it is already in successive rescues or is it, in this matter too, according to the Left Block? But the second reason why I would like to congratulate the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is that Mr Galamba was, in fact, a prominent Member in the previous Parliament, but I would like to say - frankly - and forgive me - this sincerity, almost always for the worst reasons with regard to what I am going to say to him. Mr Galamba was the first and fastest to comment on all the circumstances, all the data and all the figures — I believe until he is the « father» of those expressions « recessive spiral» and « snowball unemployment» — and the Member who most forecasts have failed in this Parliament. It is indeed a great sign that the Socialist Party gives the country to be Mr. Deputy speaking on the rostrum! Oh, my God! It is that the honourable Member has always failed and will fail again, not to the delight of the PSD Members, but to the poor degree of all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u247	Is the intervention about me or is it about the State budget? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u248	It is about the State budget, Mr. João Galamba. Don't worry, because you are not immune to answering the questions I am going to ask you and I will be very pleased to hear your answers. I would like to start by asking you about the budget, on budgetary policy, on economic and financial policy. Mr. João Galamba, is he able to inform the House about who was the party in Portugal who first cut the salaries of the Public Administration? Is he able to inform the House about whom he first cut the salaries of the Public Administration? And what government began to replace the salaries of the Public Administration? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. João Galamba, what was the government that first reduced the pensions of the Portuguese? Which government has frozen minimum, social and rural pensions? And what government has begun to retire pensions and has defrosted, above inflation, minimum, social and rural pensions? I remember that you were against, but do this memory exercise to answer to the House and the country. Mr. João Galamba, which government began by raising taxes? And what government has even begun, in the previous legislature, to reduce the tax burden on families and businesses?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u249	It wasn't the previous one, for sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u250	Mr. João Galamba, the answer to the first question I put to him in each of these matters is the following: it was the Government of the Eng. José Socrates, that you were one of the main supporters. And the government that began to remove austerity was the government of Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, in the previous legislature! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I tell you more, Mr. João Galamba, perhaps to make the honourable Member and Mr. Prime Minister, Dr. António Costa, who has already spoken here, having repeated the question several times, it is necessary, in fact, to have a great top — the exemption of the IMI related to real estate funds. Mr. Prime Minister, do you know who created this exemption? It was the government that you supported, it was the Government of Eng.o José Socrates. And do you know who first reduced that exemption to half? It was the previous government, the government of Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho. You know, Mr. Prime Minister, in terms of moral authority to reduce taxes, to raise wages, to send the troika though, we take no lessons from anyone, much less from Mr. Prime Minister and so little from Mr. João Galamba! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] To conclude, Mr Galamba, I would like to leave a very specific question about this State budget. Let us leave myths, style figures and go directly to specific questions. I wanted a reply from your « yes» or « no». Mr. João Galamba, as one of the authors of this State budget, is able to guarantee this House but, above all, to Portuguese and Portuguese people who look suspiciously at a State budget that all independent commentators and institutions say is irresponsible and present risks that, in April, when such plan b is to be presented, that Minister Centeno is negotiating in Brussels, does not come there any more an austerity package for Portuguese and Portuguese? It is a 'yes' or 'no' answer. We want to see now if it's going to fail again, or if it's going to hit the forecasts. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u251	It's going to be nim!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u252	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Galamba, if I have heard you well, Mr Galamba came here, I believe, according to his own classification, to talk about inventions — his first word was 'inventing' or 'inventing'. And I have heard and even found it appropriate, because I know that you are considered almost a specialist in what is now called the creation of narratives for certain documents. So I think it is appropriate that you have come here to give us a little lesson on this very thing. There's a little problem. It is that the last government to have the honourable Member as a great creator of narratives and spins has ended, if I recall, with a request for external aid. And this government was presided over by former Prime Minister Socrates. Let's hope it runs differently this time. We're confident we are! I was saying that the honourable Member has come to teach us a lesson on the creation of narratives, speeches. Mr. Deputies, I've noticed that. I have already noticed that, in this budget, there has been an attempt to — if you were the honourable Member to intoxicate, but I am not going to say it — to tell your own story. So this started the next way. First narrative: « income shock ». The honourable Member used that expression. You remember well, of course. In fact, for a while, it might seem so. The problem was when the Budget had to come in and the accounts started beating, and there came the unpleasant surprises. Note the following: first, it was necessary, for this narrative to be sure, that the so famous replacement of incomes had only begun now and, therefore, it was necessary to put under the cloth the fact that already in the 2015 Budget we started to restore the revenues of the public service and, moreover, the pensions below 4600 €, which are the overwhelming majority, had no cut. The honourable Member had to put these two facts under the cloth. But that wasn't enough either. It was necessary to make it seem that everything was exactly the same. In other words, the measures taken in the middle of an adjustment plan to avoid a new rescue were exactly the same as the measures taken in a scenario not of recession but of economic growth and national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u254	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u255	Mr President, it was necessary to have made these two facts, which, although they may seem small, were achieved with many sacrifices and efforts of many Portuguese, which was quite relevant. When it was realized that this was not working well and what exactly was the Budget, then the second narrative was created, which is the narrative of the enemies. The honourable Member has said a lot about her in her speech. He said there was someone asking questions because he was not a patriot and there was someone who disagreed was not because he was against the PS, but because he was against Portugal. More: the honourable Member also said, from the rostrum, that those who disagree, those who do not like are conspirators with foreigners. Sir, are you aware of the seriousness of what you said? I do not understand what is serious: if you think that anyone disagrees with you is a conspirator or if you are a conspirator who does so with the outsider. Mr. Deputies, I think we should be careful. I had the idea that — and I do not say that the PS is a European party — being a foreigner is not a defect and disagreeing with itself is not antipatriotism, it is simply not agreeing with you because we understand that our ideas better defend our country. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] This is called democracy. Democracy! And I don't think that horror abroad is a very democratic feature. I was expecting something different from Mr. Deputies. How frank! Third narrative: "We're going to be something creative with the Portuguese" — I'm using an euphemism, obviously, because it's not quite what this is about. So I'm going to remember a few of your phrases. The honourable Member said that, on the one hand, there would be labour taxes and, on the other, special taxes, which, in his view, are no longer labour taxes. Mr President, on these special taxes which tax consumption, does it not seem to you that the incomes used in this consumption are obtained from work? Do you not think that someone who works and that at the end of the week will walk in your car, who bought with the sweat of your work and with much sacrifice, the money you spend when putting gas oil is the result of this person's income? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u256	He said: « I do not like the word austerity, I prefer the word restrictions». Well, I naively asked myself: ‘ Won’t we both be talking about the same thing? » Perhaps, we are! The difference is in the way we call it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u257	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u258	Mr. João Galamba, I am not going to talk about pearls, as is the case with the expression « taxes friends of the economy ». Somehow, in a debate, I heard that expression, but I don't remember who it is anymore. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u259	The author is Steps Rabbit!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u260	But there's a pearl I can't resist talking about. I've heard, for four years, talk about cuts, cuts, cuts. There is now, of course, no more cuts, something called'sector savings'. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] And we asked: “What are these savings? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” They tell us: "Oh, they're sectoral savings, they're very good, they're very virtuous." And we ask again: “But where do these savings come from? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” They say: "Oh, it seems that it is in internal administration, in justice and there will be some in education, in basic education." And we ask more: "But what are these savings, in particular? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” They tell us: « They are not cuts, they are sectoral savings». Then we'll see what they're going to do! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr Galamba, finally, I am talking to you about the last pearl I said, although there are many — we will certainly continue to talk about them, even because Mr Galamba is very creative, I know, and will continue to have that ability — which was about creativity in the accounts, because then, of course, they are not sure about it all. Well, you see, don't you? Oh, my God! It is that a Budget which at the same time reduces the deficit and restores income, then, as is natural, has to go to the other side and the other side are precisely the same families and the same middle class that you said to defend. Look at the following: I hear a lot, a lot, a lot, talking about income replacement for families. If you remember, I have already asked Mr Finance Minister what would be a cut in social action of EUR 98 million and if these EUR 98 million would not leave the pockets of families either. It seems not, because no one has yet been able to explain to me what this is and what pockets are going to go out or which pockets are not going to come in. On taxes, today's narrative fell on the IMI of real estate funds and the contribution to the bank. Mr. Deputies, I have remembered making an account. I see in the Budget, in discretionary measures and according to the sum I made of the accounts of UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit), almost EUR 1000 million, more precisely EUR 915 million of tax increase. You note that, of these EUR 915 million, only EUR 50 million come from the IMI of real estate funds and that the 50 million from the famous bank contribution, for example, represents only one seventh — I repeat, one seventh — of what families will pay more in taxes on gasoline and diesel. So, honourable Member, in this case, for the Portuguese taxpayers' purse, unfortunately, the narrative is far from reality. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u261	To reply, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u262	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by thanking Mr Hugo Soares and Mrs Cecilia Meireles for the questions they asked me. Mr Hugo Soares was very excited about my person and almost didn't even get time to talk about the State budget. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, this debate is not about me, nor are we going to vote for or against me tomorrow. We are talking about a document called the State Budget, and I would like to hear a word about it, but unfortunately I have not heard any. [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Deputies, I really like you to assign me paternity. I have a daughter, but the expression'recessive spiral' is not my 'daughter', it is 'daughter' of the President of the Republic, who apparently Mr. Therefore, it attributes paternity to the right person, that this is certainly not mine. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I respond to the CDS and PSD at the same time. They have talked about past budgets, such as the budget of five years ago, the budget of six years ago, they have talked about budgets that do not exist, but what they have not — they have not achieved, or will not, unless they invent numbers — in none of the interventions has been denied, and they are trying to do so since the beginning of the debate, a simple fact: this year, the income of Portuguese families, including the VAT of restoration, which so many shrieks caused by Mr Nuno Magalhães, increases more than EUR 1500 million and the discretionary measures to increase taxes do not exceed EUR 600 million. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] This is a fact that no acrobatics, no pirouettes, nor inventing numbers can deny, even by the mere fact that this is what is written in the document we are going to approve, which is public and for which I thought you were. Members had already read, but apparently I was wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u263	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u264	Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS will see if we understand each other at a time: last year's budget has not reduced the tax burden. Mrs Cecilia Meireles said here that she had reduced, but increased the tax burden. I still remember interviews with the former Minister of Energy and statements by the former Prime Minister in this Parliament saying that the reduction of direct labour taxes would be entirely financed by indirect taxes. And, therefore, there was no relief from taxes to families. [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] But in fact, there was a tax relief: the €200 million in IRC for the large Portuguese companies, which we, if they do not mind, would rather not continue to do what you did in four years and would not do in the next four years, that is, increase the income of Portuguese families and do so with justice criteria in the distribution of income, betting on the lower half of the income scale to Portuguese families who earn up to €20 000, whether by the minimum wage, whether by the solidarity supplement for the elderly, whether by the social income of insertion, whether by the updates of the subsidies, that you would keep frozen by 2019,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u265	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u266	...by defrosting pensions, which you have kept frozen for four years and which you would keep for four more years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u267	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u268	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, all this can cost you, you can deny, you can say what you want, but do not delete this fact: this is the first budget that increases the income of families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS referred to two measures: the salaries of civil servants and the extraordinary contribution of solidarity. Mrs Deputy, you are in any position to support the Government's options because the Government that supported has always said that you wanted to cut wages permanently and even want to cut them from €645. They just couldn't do it because my party and the parties on the left went to the Constitutional Court and it was the Constitutional Court that prevented you from cutting pensions permanently, which prevented you from cutting wages permanently and forced you, in 2015, to do what they didn't want, which was to return both pensions and salaries, because they wanted to keep them cut. But on this point, Mrs Deputies, last year's budget did not have the last word in relation to the PSD and CDS in respect of income replacement. That is why we must not forget, and we will insist until the end of this debate and insist on the necessary times, that the PSD and CDS Members have committed themselves to Brussels with a cut in pensions of EUR 600 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u269	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u270	It is on page 39, if I am not mistaken, of the Stability and Growth Program 2015 - 2019. If you don't remember, you'll consult. It's on page 39.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u271	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u272	You have said: "No, no! It was not a cut, because this had already been considered unconstitutional, were substitute measures of equivalent value.' Mrs Cecilia Meireles, as we do not believe in miracles, if it is not pension cuts and replaces with equivalent value, there must be an increase in some tax. And as we know that you did not want to reduce the tax burden on labour income, you wanted, yes, to reduce the tax burden on REN and EDP...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u273	That's completely false!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u274	...and reducing IRC, perhaps, could do the favor of explaining to the Portuguese where they were going to look for these 600 million euros. And don't forget, Mrs Member: we have increased EUR 1500 million, but you would not increase anything and still cut more EUR 600 million, curiously a very similar value that we have raised in taxes, but without the increase in income that this Budget provides and that yours would never foresee. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u275	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We defend this budget exactly for what it is, namely, an effort to stop impoverishment and introduce some equity into our tax system. We criticise this budget for everything he lacks. And lack of public investment to create jobs, lack of support for half a million unemployed, lack of resources to dignify and requalify public services. We know well who, in this process, has been fighting for every euro that will be returned to the Portuguese and who instead rubbed his hands so that this could not be possible. But in spite of this, what this proposal we are discussing today tells the country is that it began the recovery of wages, which began the end of the IRS tax nightmare, that pensions ceased to be the mill of austerity. This change is essential and that is why we approve it with all commitment. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you now that we return to the first official campaign day for the legislators. Asked if a Socialist Party Budget could be made viable, candidate Pedro Passos Coelho replied: «We will never be opposition to the country». This is not the first time, we know, that Mr Passos Coelho has said it for no reason, but we understand very well why he is now going to vote against the budget proposal. If we needed confirmation, we'd have it here. The vote against the PSD is proof that this is even a moment of change. What is to be noted is that Mr Pedro Passos Coelho votes against, but it is his resentment when, after imposing four years of greater austerity, he is now indignant because the IRS is going to go down to the families or because the Constitution is going to be respected. The PSD with this position is even opposed to the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The right, which raises the head to crave the seven winds the lack of credibility of this Budget, looks down when the German finance minister sends far-reaching remarks about our democratic choices. The right is even opposition to the country. The budget proposal which came out of the negotiations with Brussels was damaged because it reduced the policy of return of income and replacement of rights. by eagerly seeking the role of advisors or mere ventriloqualists of European authoritarianism, PSD and CDS were not only opposed to PS, or to parties that make up the parliamentary majority, they were even opposed to the country! Already about this Budget, they said everything and their opposite. On Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays, it is said that it is irresponsible to lower taxes and want to give everything to everyone; on Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, the increase in taxes and the assault on the middle class is denounced. Yes, the right hand applauds the pressure of Brussels ; the day does not criticize the surrender in front of Brussels. It is until being charged to watch the exercise of hypocrisy of those who, yesterday, sat at the Council of Ministers table that approved the greatest increase in taxes that this country has already seen and today are said to be shocked by the increase in the rate on fuels that will bring the price of gasoline to the same level that it was in December. It is worth everything in this exercise of confusion that the right will do about the State budget. The truth, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, the attack on the middle class does not exist in this budget. The extravagance of this idea is denied by the Budget itself. Even after the Brussels blue pencil, this proposal is a change that respects the electoral commitments and the essentials of the agreement concluded on the left. PSD and CDS were convinced, more than convinced, the PSD and the CDS were betting that support for the left-wing debt by land this Budget and therefore the Government. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] They were wrong. They have been deceived because what has united and what unites this majority is not a circumstantial will of power,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u277	...but convergence around a strategy to stop poverty and return dignity to the country. [[All right!]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u278	The agreement reached on the left conditions the Government to this strategy and reinforces it against external pressures. And this is the greatest guarantee of stability that we can give workers in Portugal, pensioners and taxpayers. So let us talk about strategic options for this budget. Is increasing the wage to whom, even working, can't get out of poverty is, or not, a strategic option? We understand that it is. Therefore, more than half a million workers who receive the national minimum wage have already had a monthly increase of 25 euros this year and will have an equal increase in 2017. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Is replacing charity with decent social support a strategic option for the country or not? We understand that it is. And, therefore, the average RSI (social income of insertion) per child will go from 50 euros to 90 euros per month. It's little, we know, but it's a lot, it's plus 150 euros a month in the budget of a poor family with three children. Reverting the brutal increase in IRS tax, which affects so many workers, is it, or not, a strategic option for the country? We understand that. And, therefore, the overtax will be eliminated for most taxpayers. It is more than 55 euros a month, if we think of a couple with a monthly income of 3000 euros. Is valuing pensioners' incomes, or not, a strategic option for the country? We understand that. And therefore all pensions up to EUR 628 per month will be defrosted and the reform supplements will be paid to whom they have been withdrawn. The poorest pensioners among the poorest, who on the right would have an increase of 2, 62 € in reforms, will now have more € 9, because the solidarity complement for the elderly will be strengthened. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's budgetary policy does not go as far as it would be necessary, but it has a strategic purpose: it is not only healing the wounds of the past that, more importantly than everything else, is an alternative to the right plan, which had already been presented in Brussels. The right-wing project was also a project of opposition to the country: more than 1400 million austerity on top of the cuts, which have now been raised, with this Budget. So let us look at the future with more confidence. We certainly have a lot of work ahead of us. during 2016 and in the preparation of the next Budgets, it will certainly be necessary, now much longer, to carry out substantive reforms in our fiscal structure. And this is the change that I want to highlight to finalize my intervention. Our tax system has been corrupted by the colossal increase in taxes over the past four years. The middle class will certainly not forget how it was mirrored by this compression trick of the IRS steps. So our concern is not just to put back what was before: it is to correct the error and improve the system. by creating new steps to improve the progressiveity of tax, we also want to apply the constitutional doctrine: the great reform that the IRS needs, and in which we have to work, is its simplification, reducing the forest of exemptions and fees that protect special rights, thus applying the only principle that democracy recognizes and the Constitution enshrines: the principle of the inclusiveness of the various incomes for the purposes of determining the collectable matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]] After the IRS simplification reform, it will have to happen with the IRC and with the Tax Benefit Statute, which contains real loopholes for those who want to run away from tax in this country. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want taxpayers to have every reason to say with confidence that, with this majority, 1 euro is 1 and 1 million is 1 million. Therefore, let us stop having heavy hands with the weak and privileges of aristocracy so that we can have a tax system, which we know how it works, how it works, and which does not hide income, nor does it protect friends. In a country that wants to make combating poverty a strategy and a design cannot take place for the flight of millionaires to taxes, nor for fiscal inequality. This is the commitment of the Left Block, this is the commitment we have brought to this debate of the Budget and it is in this commitment that we will continue to work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u279	Mrs. Member, you have signed up to request clarifications from Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u280	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I think I have noticed, without great effort, that the intervention which you have now made here has essentially differed from the intervention which we have heard recently from Mr Catarina Martins. The honourable Member, at least even to the final sentences, has made a defense, almost so, epic of the budgetary solutions contained in the document we are considering today, which Mrs Catarina Martins has not done, quite the contrary! I heard Mrs Catarina say, and even I wrote, that she finds no change that is enough in this Budget, and that, even with the possible changes in the field of specialty, all this is very little. The honourable Member has now come here to try to correct the shot. What are we staying on? — this is my first question. This is because there is something that is absolutely insufficient here: the Left Block cannot pretend that it is standing within this State Budget and this government solution and with the other foot anywhere else. It's not possible! The Left Block must stop this impossible attempt to pretend that it gives illusory yellow cards to the government. The Left Block, whether or not it is formally represented in the Government, is part of this Government, is part of this government solution. This State Budget is your State Budget! The solutions that are contained there, the options of this State Budget, are your options,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u281	... options that are not, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, according to what you have defended before, during the election campaign. [[PSD applause.]] What the Left Block has defended in recent years is not in any way what it is represented in this State budget, particularly in the rhetoric of the Government, when it says that it wants to fulfil its international commitments and obligations to which the Portuguese State is obliged, particularly the obligations with the European Union. So once and for all, you, Block Left, are part of this solution. You, Left Block, the political force Left Block, are an integral part of this government, this fragile political solution, this boat that puts water on all sides, so it is not worth continuing with this game of masks, saying, as Mrs. Deputy said, that on the second Wednesdays and Fridays they want the renegotiation of debt and that Portugal does not fulfil its European commitments, to then arrive here, as Mrs. Mariana Mortagua did, and defend the solutions contained in this State budget. You are part of this solution and the Portuguese will be able to judge the Left Block at the first opportunity,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u282	... precisely because they did the opposite of what they said they were going to do in the election campaign. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u283	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u284	Mr. President, Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim put my party in dust,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u285	It's been calculated!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u286	...that now you think I have a fun with Deputy Catarina Martins! [[BE's laughs.]] I assure you that we are very well coordinated, and don't worry, because the Left Block will not lose that coherence. I repeat the first two sentences of my speech: « Let us defend this budget exactly for what it is (...) » and « We criticise this budget for all that it lacks ». In this whole budgetary and campaigning process, the Left Block had a position in the democratic debate and in the form of political action, which perhaps surprises the honourable Member. It is that there is a medium-term between blind obedience and the opposition of bota-basixism, which is what you are doing to this Budget. [[All right!]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u287	That's good, come from BE!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u288	There's a half-term! There is a medium-term between having convictions and coming to negotiate them, achieving results. There is still the middle term between having convictions and not losing them, which is what happens, for example, with the issue of public debt. But now, Mr. Commissioner, I think you're reading it wrong! Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And this also has one reason: you are so concerned about what external markets think about the budget, you are so concerned about what the European Commission thinks about the budget, what the rating agencies think about the budget that has never stopped to think about what the Portuguese think about this budget! [[Congratulations from BE.]] A budget that restores wages, that restores pensions, that gives more income to those who need it, that helps the poor the most. What does a person who lives in the national minimum wage think of 25 euros more than he will have every month? What will the couple think with three children? What does this couple think about when they see more than 150 euros in their budget at the end of the month? [[Protests by PSD Members and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]] Mr. Deputies, at the end of the day, it is with these people that the Left Block is concerned. That is why I tell you, by solving your doubts, that we are very proud of the work we have done, and that we will continue to do, in this budgetary procedure, and we will vote in favour of this budget, and we will not fail to make criticisms, which are fair, and work in the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u289	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: In the legislative elections of 4 October, the Portuguese people unequivocally condemned the policy pursued in the last four years by the PSD/CDS Government and expressed their willingness to interrupt the path of destruction of rights and assault on workers' and the people's incomes. But we imagine, for a moment, only for a moment, that the PCP, after the elections, had not actively engaged in the removal of the PSD and CDS from the government, that the PCP had not revealed full availability to find solutions that would respond to the aspirations of the Portuguese people for change. If this had happened, if the PSD and the CDS had continued in the government, what budget would we be discussing here today in the Assembly of the Republic? We have no doubt, the State budget for 2016 would be a continuing budget for the policy of exploitation, impoverishment and national decline. Today we would be discussing the continuation of the revenue confiscation by at least by 2019, instead of discussing the replacement of the salaries of employees of the public administration and the increase of the national minimum wage. We would be discussing the cutting of EUR 600 million in the pensions of those who have worked their entire lives, instead of discussing the defrosting of pensions and the strengthening of the solidarity complement for the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u291	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u292	We would be discussing the reduction and elimination of social benefits, rather than discussing the increase or increase of family allowance, social income for inclusion or third-person assistance. We would be discussing the extension or even the deepening of the tax collection to labour income instead of discussing the definitive elimination of the overtax of IRS, the reduction of the VAT of restoration and the introduction of the IMI safeguard clause.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u293	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u294	We would be discussing the reduction to half of the contribution of the energy sector, instead of discussing the increase in the contribution of the banking sector and the end of the exemption of IMI to real estate investment funds. We would be discussing further a reduction in the IRC rate, the third in three consecutive years, instead of discussing the fairer taxation of profits of large companies and economic groups by limiting some tax exemptions and reducing the deadlines for reporting losses. We would be discussing the concessions of Carris, Metro and STCP, instead of discussing their reversal, which has already been realized.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u295	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u296	We would be discussing the dismissal of thousands of workers through the so-called requalification, instead of discussing measures that open the door to recruitment in the Public Administration and the State Business Sector, the replacement of the 35-hour weekly time and the replacement of holidays.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u297	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u298	We would be discussing additional measures for the exploitation and impoverishment of workers and the Portuguese people, instead of discussing the replacement of the amendments to the reform of workers in the State's Business Sector, the fight against job insecurity, the reduction of moderate rates and the extension of exemptions, the elimination of restrictions on hiring in local administration, the hiring of doctors in the National Science and Technology System, or other measures which, being not yet implemented in the State budget proposal, may come to be seen during the debate of the speciality, such as the non-increase of the value of propines, the progressive introduction of the freeness of school textbooks, the improvement of social unemployment allowance and the reduction of the maximum rate of IMI. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This is not the budget of the CFP! [[PSD protests.]] It is also not a budget that implements the patriotic and left-wing policy that the country needs so much. This budget contains aspects that we do not follow and in which we will mark our position against, namely the restrictions imposed on workers and services of the Public Administration and the Business Sector of the State with impact on their incomes, progressions, links and rights, the concessions of Silopor and IP Telecom and the failure to comply with the Local Finance Act. This is the PS Government's budget which carries in itself the contradictions inherent in the declared objective of responding to a reversal of right-wing policy and, at the same time, to compliance with external rules, taxes and conditions. But despite all its limitations and shortcomings, it is a budget that expresses the commitments entered into in the joint position between PS and PCP and that seeks to respond to the most urgent problems of the Portuguese people, with regard to the indispensable return of wages, pensions and rights, the unadjustable reversal of the degradation of the living conditions of the Portuguese people, giving signs of reversal of the path of decline, injustice, exploitation and impoverishment imposed on our country by the previous PSD/CDS government. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : With the presentation of the outline of the State budget to the European Commission four weeks ago, an unacceptable operation of blackmail, pressure and interference was initiated. Trying to disguise its true intentions with a more technical approach, which the European Commission sought at all costs to prevent the implementation of measures to replace rights and incomes. It is a shame that, alongside the European Commission, against the interests of Portugal and the Portuguese, the PSD and the CDS have been placed, making a choir with all those from Brussels who have sought to prevent the inversion, even though timid, of the course followed in recent years. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] We appreciate the fact that the State budget contains income and rights replacement measures that run counter to the general meaning of the European Union's guidelines. But the recognition of this fact cannot mislead another reality, whatever the State budget contains limitations resulting from our country's attachment to the constraints and conditionalities of the Stability and Growth Pact, of Economic and Monetary Union and of the Budget Treaty, which continue to be assumed by the Government. The positive signal measures that this State budget incorporates are only a first step. Other steps should necessarily be taken towards the replacement of rights and incomes, steps that will require a firm position vis-à-vis the European Commission, the European Central Bank, the IMF and other major capital centres, for whom good measures are those that liquidate labour and social rights, reduce workers'income and dismantle the social functions of the State in health, education and social protection. It is therefore necessary to break off external taxes and conditionalities in order to ensure conditions for the continuation of the policy of recovery of rights and income, which, however, can only be fully expressed in the context and as a result of a patriotic and left-wing policy based on the enhancement of labour and workers, social justice, the enhancement of public services and the social functions of the State, the defence of the productive sectors and national production, the public control of the strategic sectors of the economy and the affirmation of national independence and sovereignty. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Budget we are discussing today is an important vehicle for the implementation of the measures identified in the joint position between PS and PCP. We appreciate the adoption of these measures and others which, outside the framework of the State budget, have already been implemented or will be in the near future. We value it, but we don't feed illusions. The State budget has many limitations, from the outset because it does not respond to the serious problem of public debt, because it does not break with the favour of the economic groups, large businesses and great fortunes, in tax policy, and because it does not significantly increase the public investment that the country lacks. These are materials that cannot, nor should, be swept under the carpet. They are serious constraints that need to be overcome quickly, if we want our country to have a future other than external dependence, economic stagnation, injustice and social inequality. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Despite its limitations and inadequacies, the State budget can respond to some urgent problems of the Portuguese people regarding labour and social rights, incomes, the realization of health rights, education and social protection. over the past four years, the workers and the people have carried out an intense and courageous fight against the policy of exploitation, impoverishment and national decline and against the PSD/CDS government, which has implemented this policy. This struggle has borne fruit: the PSD/CDS government has been defeated, a political solution has been found and has opened the way to solving the most urgent problems of Portuguese. The State budget, which we are discussing today, is not yet the budget that the country needs, but it is a budget that brings the Portuguese to hope in a better future! [[Applause from the PCP and the MEP from BE Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u299	Mr Miguel Santos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u300	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, let me tell you, without grace, that I look at you and identify you visually, because it is the same thing that has been with us some years ago, but the content of what you say is completely different. I identify it to you, but I do not identify the speech, nor the content, nor the words that you speak. In fact, time will tell and prove, but the Portuguese Communist Party, in this joint position, which assumed to create this government, which is sitting there, may perhaps be compromising one of the characteristics that corresponds, perhaps, to the greatest heritage that the Communist Party has in Portugal, and to which it used the Portuguese, which is its coherence. In fact, for years and decades, I could say that the Portuguese Communist Party has not evolved, but I will say that it has not changed, because for decades it has always affirmed the same causes, the same principles and, now, what is seen is, in fact, a rhombud in this coherence that characterizes the Portuguese Communist Party. In fact, Mr President, let me tell you that, much more than a coalition or joint positions, what is seen at this point in the highest time of the existence of this coalition, which is the moment of the budget discussion, is indeed a non-aggression pact. What you have, and what is visible in this House, is the establishment of a non-aggression pact — in fact, you see the interventions that are produced by the parties on the left, you don't even question each other. The honourable Member has just made an intervention and on the side of the benches around him there is no Member to ask you any question, because, I can imagine, I can imagine, do not diabate them and slide some question or answer to something that is not on the menu that you have agreed not to attack. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u301	Mr President, very recently he spoke about debt negotiation. I ask, very specifically: when will the Portuguese Communist Party deliver a proposal in the Assembly of the Republic on debt negotiation? You can tell us whether, in this non-aggression pact in which you live, there is some joint position with your partners — the Socialist Party, the Greens and the Bloc and the Government of course — because, if the proposal comes in and there is no joint position, Mr Lamba, and, therefore, your party in bringing this proposal will perhaps put a very large margin of risk to the survival of the Government sitting there. Then, Mr President, let me tell you that I did not think it was curious but, in fact, very thin the intervention of your Secretary-General, your comrade Jerome de Sousa, when he finally came to speak on this budget proposal and actually used the expressions: the Budget returns hope and gives signs. Sir, I think less than this was impossible! On a proposal for Budget, the Secretary-General of the Portuguese Communist Party, after decades of the political jurisprudence of the PCP, say in favour of this Budget, very benevolently, that he is a Budget that returns hope and gives signs, sir, only if they are signs of smoke. This is because, speaking about the budget and saying that it gives signs, it is in fact a comment so small and so little that you will have to tell us something else in the budget, which you did not do when you gave your speech a little while ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u302	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u303	The truth is, the PCP puts the rape in the bag. You bought this political business and the cost it has for the CFP materialises in a position where you put the rape in the bag. And I will give you a number of examples, Mr President. First example, the update of the national minimum wage in 2016. What happened with regard to the proposal that the Communist Party defended, with regard to the proposal that the CFP's trade union arm, the CGTP, defended? They put the viola in the bag! This is what happened! Another example, Mr President, is 35 hours of work per week. Perhaps you can tell us a little more about 35 hours, because the Minister of Finance tells us about 35 hours is two things, one of them being an extraordinary thing, which is to say that the reduction from 40 hours to 35 hours cannot have a budgetary impact, which must be budgetaryly neutral. I think this is extraordinary, I do not know how Mr Minister will be able to achieve this in public services, because, by reducing working hours, of course, or hiring more employees or increasing additional work. I don't see any other way to do it! Now, Mr Prime Minister, on the budgetary impact, little or nothing says, what it is important to say is that 35 hours will come into force there by June or July, while the Minister says it is by the end of the year. The Minister of Health was in the House, he was in the Health Committee, he was questioned several times on the 35-hour question and was reluctant not to respond to Members either here or here in plenary, but later, when he left, pressured by the social communication, he acknowledged that 35-hours had budgetary impact. Obviously! Mr President, what is the position of the Portuguese Communist Party on this matter of 35 hours?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u304	So many questions to the government should have been registered in the first round!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u305	He said that he was not very happy with the Budget, so I am going there and I am coming now! Okay, you're not happy with the Budget, but tomorrow you're going to vote for it! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] When you vote tomorrow, you will vote for it! It will enable the Budget! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u306	It has enabled the government, it will make the budget viable... [[PSD applause.]] ... and now, he says: « Well, I like the Budget. Budget is not what we wanted! It could be a little bit more spicy, a little bit more sugary! We're here a little bit disillusioned...". Mr President, tomorrow I shall see you stand up and vote in favour of the State budget, because this is your government and this is your budget,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u307	...because, if not, this government did not exist and this Budget would not exist either. [[PSD applause.]] The honourable Member, in his statement just now, said in particular that this State budget opens the door to the hiring of civil servants. Mr President, what the State budget contains is not an increase of public servants. You can say that opens the door... I mean, it can open a lot of doors, it can even unlock the door, but if no one breaks the door, nothing happens! The honourable Member said that he would open the door for the increase of public servants. Mr President, if this State budget provides for less than 10 000 public servants, how does it open the door? Oh, my God! Nothing's going to happen, sir. The honourable Member will approve the State budget in conflict with what he says and then we have to understand how everything will happen with less than 10 000 public servants and 35 hours of work per week. Finally, I would like to say to you that in December, the honourable Member took part in a visit by the Health Committee to the Algarve Hospital Center and I am here to remind whoever was there or to tell who was all that Mr said on that visit, when we met with the administration of the Hospital Center, with the unions, with the associations of patients, with the representatives of the workers, it is a little annoying and, perhaps, he would let it go wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u308	It's nothing annoying! Say it again!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u309	But let me tell you one thing: you always said that, particularly in the health sector, there had been underfunding and cuts — that is what you always said. Mr President, the Algarve Hospital Centre, where you made promises in December, only in staff suffers a cut of EUR 5, 5 million. So if there was underfunding before, now there are even cuts, which means that there was no underfunding before and that now there are cuts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u310	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u311	And if you see the budget allocation for clinical consumption material, which was one aspect to which you also referred in that visit, you will find that there is also a cut of almost EUR 1 million. And when you see the total allocation of the Algarve Hospital Center, you will also see that there are cuts — minus EUR 5, 5 million. Mr President, in the face of the demagogy that you made during your visit to the Algarve Hospital Centre, the PSD committed itself six months ago to propose a new visit from the Health Committee. I want to see if you're going there and what you're going to tell those people. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u312	To reply, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u313	Mr President, Mr Miguel Santos, I begin by saying that it is curious that, being a Member of the Parliamentary Committee on Health, in general speaking on health issues in plenary, today did not want to deepen health issues, for example, by not speaking in the foreseeable hiring of doctors. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] I also did not want to talk about reducing moderate rates and extending exemptions, I did not want to talk about improving the transport system of non-emergency patients, I did not want to talk about improving primary health care. And we know, sir, that's what bothers you. In fact, Mr. Member, your bench and CDS bench are visibly uncomfortable,... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ... because your action, and that you would like to continue, was interrupted, and was also interrupted with the committed and active contribution of the CFP. what the PSD and the CDS really want was to be here today to discuss another State budget, in line with those you have proposed over the past four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u314	The honourable Member also wanted another one, but you will have to vote in favour of this one!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u315	They wanted to come here once again to adopt measures which would extend, continue, perpetuate the exploitation and impoverishment policies that you have carried out in recent years. what you would like to see here adopting more measures for the liquidation of labour and social rights! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] what you would like to see here adopting measures that would take further the dismantling of the social functions of the State in health, education, social protection, culture! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] What you would like was to approve State reconfiguration measures, putting it even more at the service of the great capital, because that is what you have done in recent years...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u316	Sir, I'm sorry to interrupt you. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at this final stage of the proceedings there is at least the same silence as the CFP did not react during the speech of the PSD. I therefore ask for some respect between the benches. Mr. Deputies, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u317	Thank you very much, Mr President. But the discomfort of the PSD and CDS benches is understood because they saw their action interrupted, which inferred the lives of Portuguese workers and people. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] [[PSD laughter.]] Mr. Miguel Santos, we do not forget the pension convergence regime that you have implemented and that definitely cut pensions above 600 €. We do not forget that these measures have been declared unconstitutional as well as, for example, cuts in unemployment benefit, cuts in holiday and Christmas allowance, cutting in sickness benefit, cuts in wages above €675, cuts in survival pensions, etc. etc. etc. That is what you have done in recent years and that is what you want to continue to do in the coming years if you have had that opportunity, but you have not. Your path of destruction of the country, of infernation of the workers and the Portuguese people was interrupted, and we are very proud to have contributed to it. [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-22.u318	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session is held tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the continuation of the debate, in general, of the bills that have been under discussion today. Time will take into account the adaptation resulting from the fact that some parliamentary groups have entered negative ground and others have left time for tomorrow. [[It should also be borne in mind that, after the debate period, the closure will also take place, with a set of final interventions, which will be about 1 hour and 40 minutes. We are therefore preparing for a long day's work.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 20 hours and 26 minutes.]]
