ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities opening the galleries. Today's agenda is filled by PCP marking, with the joint discussion of lein.o 231 / XIII projects ( 1. ( a ) — establishes the regime for the replacement of strawberries ( CFP ) and 272 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the extraordinary process of restoration of ferries extinguished by Law No 11 -A / 2013 of 28 January ( BE ), in general, and draft resolution No 393 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of the competences of the parish and the evaluation of the territorial reorganization of the parish ( PS ). Since there is no file, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Honoring the commitment you have made with the people, by fulfilling a proposal from your electoral programme, the CFP today brings to the discussion a bill with a view to the replacement of fragesias. At the initiative of the CFP, the Assembly of the Republic is starting this debate today, which will continue in the committee responsible, with a view to the completion of the replacement of strawberries in the framework of the forthcoming autarchic elections in 2017. Today, the Assembly of the Republic begins the discussion of a reversal of the responsibility of PSD and CDS, widely challenged by the population and the overwhelming majority of local bodies, directed by various political forces from north to south of the country, from inside to the coast: the extinction of freguesas. We would like the debate that begins today to be as broad as possible and that it would have the contribution of all those who wanted to do so. from there we challenged the other political forces in this direction. And we also want to welcome the citizens and the local authorities here today who have decided to accompany the debate today in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : PSD and CDS took advantage of the country's extreme difficulties for the pretext, and always the pretext, of debt, deficit and consolidation of public accounts, to impose measures, which in concrete at nothing would contribute to solving these problems, as the reality demonstrates today, but which had a much deeper political and ideological objective. The extinction of freguesis was one of these measures imposed by PSD and CDS. Yes, imposed, because it was against the will expressed by the peoples and the local organs. PSD and CDS created a procedure for the pronunciation of local organs, where only those who met their political options were considered as pronunciations, in a clearly authoritarian and antidemocratic attitude. All those who did not comply with their political objectives were simply ignored, likewise proceeding with the extinction of fragesias. PSD and CDS have extinguished more than 1 thousand frequencies without taking into account the specificities of each territory. in this process there emerged fregueses with huge areas, that is an example of a parish in Alcácer do Sal, with an area higher than the island of Madeira, or fregueses with a number of inhabitants greater than most municipalities, that are examples of the parish of Algueirão-Mem Martins, with more than 66 000 inhabitants, Cascais and Estoril, with more than 61 000 inhabitants. in all, there are 113 parishes with more than 20,000 inhabitants. With the extinction of frequencies, PSD and CDS promised more capacity to intervene, strengthen the means and territorial cohesion. Nothing more false! This hasn't happened to a mess! The extinction of parish churches contributed to the promotion of existing regional asymmetries, especially in the interior territories, whose populations were severely penalized with the closure of various public services, to which the loss of the parish was added. Many parishioners, where the parish board was the last trace of the state's presence, were completely abandoned. The extinction of freguesis also led to a reduction in intervention capacity among populations. Instead of strengthening the means, in particular financial, PSD and CDS have still reduced the financing of the Freguess. The cut in the Frequencies Financing Fund ( FFF ) is greater than the introduction of 1 % of the urban revenue IMI for the Fregueses. in the accounts made by ANAFRE (National Association of Freguesias ), the parishes were lost, as they lost the populations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Again, reality has come to the fore in the CFP. We do not say it with joy, we say that we have alerted him in due time to the negative consequences of the elimination of strawberries. The CFP has denounced the profound negative impacts that this decision would have on the territory and on the lives of the populations. The extinction of the parish was the antithesis of what must happen at this level of administrative organization of the State. You've lost proximity. Political representation has been lost. People's participation was lost. Cultural identity has been lost. He lost his claiming capacity. More than 20,000 people from France were reduced. We ask : what were the advantages? The answer is easy and life is there to demonstrate it: none! Today, the electors are further away from the population. They have more difficulties in monitoring and responding to the problems and concerns of the population. The extinction of the parish was part of a broader strategy of subversion of democratic local power. With this measure, PSD and CDS were responsible for impoverishing our democratic regime. This was one of the goals of the PSD and CDS. But they had other objectives: to annihilate an uncomfortable, demanding voice, which brings to the light of the day many problems felt by the people, which demand the intervention of the government. How many times and how many times the elect of parish, incorporating the demands of the populations, transport and give voice to these demands at other levels of power! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the initiative we are bringing the debate today, we propose that the fregies where the local bodies have taken a stand against their extinction be restored. We propose a procedure so that the local authorities who wish to amend their position through their deliberative organs and we also propose that Law No 8/93 of 5 March be reintroduced, which sets out the criteria for the creation of fregueries. Our initiative is in line with a principle that we believe is fundamental: to respect the will of the peoples and the positions taken by the bodies of the authorities, while not forgetting that it is the Assembly of the Republic which has the power to decide on the creation of fragesias. [[PCP applause.]] It is not just us who have this understanding. in the opinion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ), this entity notes that it considers the objectives and procedures enshrined in this legislative initiative appropriate, since it commits to the people, through the announcement of the local deliberative bodies, the possibility of proposing the most suitable solutions for their territories in terms of territorial organization of the fragesias. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The time has come for the Assembly of the Republic, within its powers and powers, to take decisions. The Assembly of the Republic, as a body of power representing the will of the people, cannot ignore popular demands and must go to meet their interests. The positions expressed by the populations and by the local bodies should be respected. in the current political context, there is an enormous expectation of the populations for change and for the replacement of the parish, which should never have been extinct. There is a great expectation that this opportunity will not be missed to restore the parish in the next authentic electoral act. There is nothing that prevents this discussion from progressing. There is nothing that prevents the return of the parish to the populations where these want it. There is nothing that prevents the Assembly of the Republic, which has a reserve of competence for the creation of fragesias, from replenishing the fragesias. There is no rush or precipitation, which is a desire to give body, expression and legislative translation to the popular will. There's no problem with replenishing the ferries. There will be a problem if you insist on maintaining the current territorial administrative framework, distorted by reality and against the will of the people. The PCP was against and did everything to prevent the extinction of ferries. The CFP has undertaken to defend and intervene in the replacement of the parish where this is the will of the peoples. Word given, word honored! We have given the initiative, we have organised the debate and we will now do everything to achieve this commitment to the people. We will do everything we can to ensure that, in 2017, with the elections, the frequesias are already returned. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u3	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Deputies Antonio Lima Costa, from PSD, and Álvaro Castello-Branco, from CDS-PP. But before we give the floor to Mr António Lima Costa, we will have to vote for an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee because it involves the replacement of a Member. I therefore ask Secretary Abel Baptista to read the report and the opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees refers to the replacement of Mr Jorge Falcato Simões ( BE ), an electoral circle of Lisbon, by Mrs Maria Luísa Rosendo Cabral, from 30 June 2016, including for a period not less than 30 days or more than 180 days. The opinion is in the sense that the Member concerned is to admit that the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Now, yes, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr.António Lima Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u6	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Block of Left, with the bills under discussion, have demanded that the aggregated fragesias be restored before the forthcoming elections in the context of the administrative reorganization carried out by the previous Government. You know that requirement has the intended destiny. The PS, although he has promised the same, will not honor his word, and will therefore send these projects to the dead archive of the Assembly of the Republic. But if you know what it is, why are we here today after all? Oh, my God! For two reasons. The first reason we are here today to discuss these projects, which the Socialist Party will send to the dead archive of the Assembly of the Republic, is the custom: this is another opportunity to put the box, already spent, of talking about the previous government to divert the attentions of the nonsense they are making.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u8	this time, this cassette has already spent, through Mrs Paula Santos, that this reform, by reducing 20 000 political positions in the parish, has resulted in the impoverishment of our democratic regime. Madam Member, the PSD does not receive lessons of democracy from the Portuguese Communist Party. The quality of democracy is not measured by the number of political positions. Please ask the representatives of the parish unions created if they are less democratic. on the contrary, they gained a scale and maintained the same proximity to populations. on the contrary, in this sense there has been a strengthening of our democratic regime. It highlights here, therefore, a very different perspective between us on the question of the number of political positions. Yes, it is true, against your will, we have reduced the number of political charges in the parish. But it is also true that we have reduced political positions in municipal companies against your will. It is also true that we have reduced political positions in the support offices in the municipalities against your will. It is also true that we have extinguished political positions in civil governments against your will. And it is also true that we defend, unlike the parties that support the government, the reduction in the number of political positions here in the Assembly of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u9	We are in favour of reducing the number of Members. It is also true, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are directly against your intention, the intention of the parties that support the government, to create dozens of new political positions in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, this debate has at least the virtue of remembering and making clear to those who hear this fundamental difference between the PSD, on the one hand, and the Portuguese Communist Party, Block of Left and Socialist Party, on the other. The Portuguese know who's on the right side. The second reason we are here today to discuss these projects that the PS will send to the dead file has to do with the cold war climate installed between the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, in this case in a genuine competition to see who is the most masquerades. [[Those are your criteria!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u10	If the bill of the Portuguese Communist Party calls for the reversal of the reform of the parish before the upcoming autarchic elections, then a bill of the Left Block appears to propose the same, but with the use of local referendums. Of course, the Socialist Party and the government are whispering to the side. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u11	If the bill of the Left Block acquaints with local referendums, the Communist Party anticipates and soon announces, in its own bill, that this claim of the Left Block is simply unconstitutional. Of course, the Socialist Party and the government are whispering to the side.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u13	And they whistle on the side because, in this matter, as in others, they are not meat, nor are they fish. They play with the words, use half-truths and because they are in election campaign, announce a new time and feed false expectations to all. Some promised that the parish would not get back to the government, others said that they would correct only a few mistakes. Some guarantee that before the elections everything would be resolved, others would say: “ What is the hurry? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people in reality, the Socialist Party and the Government follow an obvious strategy: to wave aside and push forward with the belly. A strategy, moreover, well illustrated by the absence of the Government in this debate! Where's the government?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u15	Swim to the side!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u16	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u17	This is the importance that the Government attaches to the parish and to the issue that brings us here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u19	But this dilating strategy and even Kafkiana goes, above all, through the creation of the famous « working group ». Otherwise we see : it began to take half a year to be constituted. Then you know what the mission of this working group is? It is not the presentation of solutions to correct the alleged errors of the reform. It is not even good enough to assess this reform. In 180 days, it can be seen to define the criteria that will subsequently be used for the evaluation of the reform of the parish. When these criteria are defined, then ask yourself: will the government make the assessment? Don't! The evaluation criteria, says the Government, washing their hands from there, will serve for the authorities, after the forthcoming autarchic elections, there for 2018, to initiate the evaluation of the reform of the parish. In other words, the government, in this, as in many other matters, blows up to the side until it achieves elections. In view of this, Mrs Paula Santos, I would like to ask you a simple question which, because it is most useful, is addressed to the autarchs present here and to all those who defend the replacement of the parish. The question is simple: will they not, in this matter, all be deceived by the Socialist Party? [[Congratulations from the PSD and Mr CDS-PP Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u20	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u21	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr António Lima Costa and by telling him that, in fact, the honourable Member, in his speech in this debate, did not bring any kind of novelty. What brought about was the insistence of the PSD on maintaining against the will of the populations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u22	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u23	in order to maintain against the positions assumed by the different organs, as regards the replacement of fragesias. [[PCP applause.]] Mr President, the PSD, in its speech, which brought to this debate were not subjects which, in fact, matter or interest the people, was more concerned with bringing political-party rags, pettys, which do not have any kind of interest for the people. The honourable Member said that the Portuguese know who is on the right side. For you know, that is why today there are several citizens and several autoarchs who are attending this debate, because they have fought, intervened and continue to fight for their fragility to be restored. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u25	That's what's right for these populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u26	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u27	The fries have been extinguished by your responsibility. What he has shown, in his speech, was that he wanted to devalue the debate, but what he did, honourable Member, was to devalue the will and positions that thousands and thousands of people have taken up in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u28	Exactly! [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u29	What he did was to devalue the position taken by the local bodies, either in the previous legislation, or now in this legislature, with the taking of hundreds of positions in assemblies of parish and municipal assemblies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u30	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u31	The honourable Member is speaking of gaining a scale, he must certainly be referring to the example I presented of the Alcácer do Sal parish, which has gained a huge scale in terms of area. Look there, Mr. Deputy, bigger than Madeira's island! Is this the scale you're referring to? Oh, my God! [[PCP, P.S. and Greens applauded.]] Ingestible territories! Or is it referring to the scale of fregueses which, by the extinction of others, were 30 000, 40 000, 50 000, 60 000 inhabitants? This is the proximity management scale that has the PSD and that is what it imposed on populations in our country. The honourable Member spoke about the reduction of voters. Well, Mr President, do you know what the practical consequence of the reduction of voters is? It's the least popular representation. It is the impoverishment of the democratic regime. It is the least capacity to intervene with the problems of the populations and to know their concrete reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u32	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u33	Therefore, Mr President, I believe that it is clear that the objectives and intentions of the PSD are still in the same direction: to attack local democratic power. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] What we are doing here today is a serious debate about what is right for the people, what people and the autarchs have been fighting over these years. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u34	Let's vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u35	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u36	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, once again the CFP, accompanied by BE, comes here seeking to reverse a reform. It's nothing new. Since the takeover of the current government we have heard in this House, the Communist Party and the Block of Left to try to reverse everything that the previous government has reformed. Sadly, the Socialist Party, conditioned by its partners and trying to endure to rule, has also fallen into this same mistake. Error because these are reversals that only harm the country and that are no more than ideological emanations from an extremist left, totally inadequate to the reality of the Western world, to the modernity imposed and far from the will of most Portuguese people. in this particular case, the territorial territorial administrative reorganization, carried out by the previous government, originated, as all know, in the commitments made by the Government of Socrates, the PS, with the troika. It was therefore a socialist commitment that the PSD/CDS Government had to fulfil. And the PSD/CDS government has transformed this commitment into an opportunity by promoting territorial cohesion and local development with this reform. In fact, with this reform, the tasks of the parish and the corresponding resources have been extended and the intervention capacity of the parish boards has been dignified, as well as improved public services of proximity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u37	When?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u38	With this reform, expenditure has also been streamlined and scale gains have been promoted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u39	When? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u40	And for this reason, because the Portuguese understood these merits, in addition to the assumed need, there were no great difficulties in the implementation of the reform, no great uprising or popular contest, contrary to what the honourable Member said here. Thus, it is with enormous strangeness that we see the Communist Party, in a false way, say in its bill that this reform, and I quote, «... deserved generalised challenge and repudiation(...) »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u41	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u42	... or that it has subverted local democratic power, impoverishing our democratic regime, or, and I quote, « This process has had negative consequences for populations(...) ». Perhaps, she did not know the study that ANAFRE commissioned the Association of Regional and Local Law Studies (AEDREL), in collaboration with the Center for Local Authorities Law Studies at the University of Minho. This study aimed to evaluate this territorial reform of the parish, as well as the realization of the increase in the competences of the parish that accompanied this reform. I would remind you that, in this study, it is concluded that, in most cases, there was no difference between the fregueses that joined and — it is added in its conclusions — that, in some 70% of the cases, the respondents consider that the new local management maintained or improved its quality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u43	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u44	Therefore, on the basis of what I have just said, we do not understand either the statements or the intentions of the PCP or BE to defend this reversal. Mrs. Members of the Communist Party and the Left Block, notice well that the Government and the Socialist Party have already understood this reality. If at the beginning of this government stated to the four winds, in a chorus in line with the PCP and BE, that the reform was to reverse, now, already attentive to the effects of the reform and the feelings of the Portuguese, by the voice of Mr. Minister Eduardo Cabrita, they come to say that, after all, they no longer want the reversal of the aggregation of the fragesias.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u45	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u46	Mrs. Members, the PS and the government have already understood, only the PCP and BE are not yet. And for this reason, Mrs Paula Santos, I would like to ask you, frankly, whether you are aware that the territorial reform of the parish has gone and continues to work well and that you have no objection from the population,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u47	Don't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u48	... nor does it have the popular will against, as it was very well seen in all this process that proceed in a peaceful and extremely efficient way. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u50	Pacific? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u51	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u52	Mr President, I also welcome Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco. Mr President, in recent years we should not have been in the same country, because what you have referred to is not in any way the feelings of the people, the positions that have been and are currently being taken by various local authorities in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u53	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u54	So what you brought here was indeed a rhetoric, the same as we heard three or four years ago, when your government and the PSD decided to put an end to the arguments that had nothing to do with reality — in fact, they were far from reality and the needs of the people. Therefore, it was clear that for the CDS-PP there is no intention to go to meet the will of the populations and that it prefers to remain in immobilism, even knowing that this harms them. Mr President, the various political forces — not only of the CFP, but also of other political forces — have, very vehemently vehemently, placed on the table the deeply negative consequences of the extinction of strawberries, namely the loss of proximity. Mr. Deputy, go talk to the people! [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] You will realize what, in those less-favoured territories of the interior of our country, meant the exit of the parish board and the extinction of the parish in its locality, which was more left! You will speak in the capacity of intervention of the parish, Mr! I remember the PSD and CDS-PP promised to strengthen the media. Well, after the extinction of the parish, they moved forward with a proposal for a local finance law and, as a matter of fact, reduced the financial resources for the parish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u55	Well remembered! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u56	They didn't even keep your word, the promise they had made. This is the reality! You will see how much it is transferred to the parish, Mr. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] I can also say the following, Mr President: if, in fact, the situation is not worse for the French, it is because many people of France are aware of the profoundly negative consequences of the extinction of some people, they have committed themselves and tried to make the most of it so that the populations would not be abandoned. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I give the example of many PCP voters who have kept the bridging boards in operation, decentralised and who well know what cost this has been possible, exactly, so that people would not feel the evils that they have suffered. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u57	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u58	I would also like to add the following: we are fully aware of the origin of this measure. We are aware that there was indeed a pact of aggression, signed by three parties — PS, PSD and CDS — which provided for the extinction of the fragesias, in which PSD and CDS moved forward with the same measure and extinguished the fragesias. But now the question arises, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake in this debate today is the replacement of strawberries, and that is what is being debated. [[PSD protests.]] The question is which of the Members. Members are on the side of the will of the people, along with the interests of the populations and positions that have been taken over by the authorities, and those who are not. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u59	Go to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u60	from the PCP there is no doubt. We have made our commitment and here we are, honouring this same commitment: we have presented the legislative initiative, we have appointed the debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u61	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u62	...the debate will continue in the committee responsible and we are here. We want to know who is with us to defend the interests of the people. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u63	The debate will continue, against your will! You wanted him to die here, but he'll go on!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u64	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating all the Members. Members, all the autarchs present here and also the autarchs throughout the country. in this power debate, the Parliamentary Group of the Block of the Left also presents for discussion its bill, which approves the extraordinary process of restoration of ferries extinguished by Act No. 11 -A / 2013 of 28 January. Mr Relvas and the PSD/CDS Government, nationally, have eliminated more than 1 thousand people from the state of France, the wake of the city and the local population. It was a tax law, which did not bring any savings to the state. The pretext of the troika's demands for the reduction of expenditure, when the parish represented only 0, 13 % of the State budget, was eliminated by thousands of autarchs elected by the country outside. The extinction / aggregation of freguees to the ruler and frame was a brutal and adjusted process, which resulted in a more comprehensive ideological option of reconfiguration of the state, centralization of services and reduction of workers. The result was a greater distance between voters and voters. The difficulties with the adequate response to be given to the populations were aggravated, and the role of the parishioners in the organization of the local power was deverted. Since the first hour that the Left Block has marked the presence of this discussion, defending the need for population auscultation, through the use of the local referendum. This is what we are proposing now, the possibility of the local referendum, in this draft law that establishes an extraordinary process and speed of restoration of extinct parish, with the repristination of Law No 8 / 93 of 5 March, with the wording given to it by Law No 51 -A / 93 of 9 July. A process of restoration of parish to have effect on the 2017 municipal elections, as defended by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities in its recently issued opinion. It should be noted that the Constitution of the Republic allows local referendums to be held on the competence of local authorities, even if they are not solely within their jurisdiction. Our country is also bound by international standards, such as the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which entered into force in the Portuguese legal order on 1 April 1991 and which provides for Article 5. the, consultation through the referendum of affected populations, regarding territorial changes of local authorities. After all, who's afraid of the referendum? The referendum is the direct consultation with the people, it is one of the most noble instruments for the exercise of democracy and citizenship. from there the Left Block privileged this figure. The Constitutional Court itself also admits the possibility of local referendums, with regard to the creation, extinction and territorial modification of local authorities. We have several judgments of the Constitutional Court in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it should be remembered that the PSD/CDS counter-reform was politically and legally illegitimate. In political terms, the following should be considered: (a) the criteria for aggregation and extinction were merely formal, without taking into account their local realities, existing equipment, historical, cultural and geographical factors and the idiosyncrasies of their populations; (b) this was a blind application of the law, resulting in disproportionate frequencies in relation to the geographical area of the municipalities; (d) the Union of Freguesias de Lousã and Vilarinho, with 59 % of the area, as well as its population, the same frequency, with 74 % of the population of the municipality; (c) Most of the consulted local bodies pronounced themselves against the proposed aggregations; (d) the aggregation of freguesias was a shocking error in the management, organisation and planning of the territory and which jeopardizes the work of local authorities. And where does the legal legality lie? It is based on various violations of the Constitution and other legal norms. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u66	( a) non-direct consultation with local populations as provided for in Article 5. ( b) Law No. 22 / 2012 of 30 May, which established the criteria for the pronunciation of local authorities'bodies on the reduction of the number of parishes, by committing competence to municipal assemblies for this purpose, violated Articles 4. o is 5. (c) The same Law, by committing such competence to municipal assemblies, has grossly violated the principle of local autonomy, with regard to the equal legal dignity of the Freguesians and municipalities; (d) The same Law, by repealing the law of the framework in force for the creation of fregueses, has left a legal void in this matter, which may represent an unconstitutionality by omission; (e) Law No 22 / 2012 may also violate the principle of proportionality, taking into account its need for adequacy and the autonomy of the local power itself. This legislative initiative, which is proposed by the Left Block here, aims to correct the negative political effects arising from the process of reducing strawberries carried out in the previous legislation by the PSD/CDS Government. As well as the report The Freguesias in the State Organization — A National Heritage, jointly prepared by the National Association of Freguesias and the Association of Regional and Local Law Studies, there was no improvement; on the contrary, the proximity was lost, which is the main characteristic of the Freguesias and they have become overcrowded populations of territorial size, lacking human, technical and financial resources. According to the same report, we have indeed seen a figure exactly contrary to what the same report says. In other words, the report states that only 30 % of aggregated strawberries consider that there is no difference between the territories that have joined the same parish bond and that about 70 % of aggregated strawberries consider there are differences between the aggregated territories, and of these 70 %, 11 % say there is a lot of difference. In fact, I don't know where the PSD saw... well, his logic was to completely reverse the data in this report.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u68	It is therefore urgent to restore justice and change the map of the parish until the 2017 municipal elections. Each electoral act that passes represents another moment of aggression to the extinct parish and its people and perpetuates the arbitrariness and injustice committed by the previous government. This government should not postpone the process much later. We hope that this initiative will be approved by this House. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u69	Mr João Vasconcelos, the Bureau is requesting clarification from Mrs Emilia Cerqueira of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u70	Mr President, Mr Vasconcelos, when I hear the Left Block talking about the authorities, the power of the author and the representation of the author, it immediately leads me to think of so many authorities that the Left Block has conquered and how, with your position in the last elections, the PSD has been highly punished. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u71	That was good! They're on the right way!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u72	This is the first point, which I can't help but make. Also, honourable Member, if anyone confuses the ANAFRE data mentioned here is not the PSD but the Left Block. He referred to the differences in the ANAFRE study when what was mentioned here was not the differences but the improvement in management. Territorial management and divergences or divergences are not the same, as we all know. This is about management, and the truth is that about 70% of the autoarchs, when surveyed in the ANAFRE study, came to say that their management or maintained or improved. They are data from ANAFRE, they are not data from political parties represented in this Chamber, as much as you would like. In his speech he referred to the need for local referendums, to listen and listen to them. The PSD, together with the CDS, at this reform, took up over a year, about two years to listen, discuss and walk around the country to discuss this reform. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You, everyone — the PS, the PCP, the Left Block, all the management together — quickly and without listening to anyone, without going through the country, without really listening to the populations, present these quick proposals. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u73	But hurryed in a way very, very, very own way. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u74	You ignore people's opinion!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u75	This hurry, my lords, is headed. As I said, Mr Lima Costa is very good, that is to send to the archive, to the calendars! All of these deadlines for referendums, for reference procedures, for listening to populations, do not allow these legislative initiatives to be approved before time. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u76	The elections are in 2017!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u77	Sir, don't get angry! I know the truth hurts, but don't get angry, sir! It's no use! Moreover, Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, acknowledged as well here that the referendum processes are complicated, are complex. Ladies and gentlemen, you refer to the possibility of referendums for all the French, more than 1000, as they say, provided that they are proposed by the municipal assemblies or by groups of citizens. Have you ever even thought about time, legal and informal issues, even, that could be raised by the Constitutional Court? No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Who thinks this seriously, of course, does not come with such proposals, to think of more than 1000 local referendums. So I'd like to know if the Left Block, even thought, in a serious and informed way, about the local referendums, or if it's no longer one of those sound bits that you like so much, to shake water, to say that they did, that they marked the agenda here in management. It is because they are all a bit angry with this position, indeed, that is because of the apparent lack of courage in putting these proposals to the vote, which is a great symptom of your lack of understanding in this process. We have several proposals from all parties here, but, as it is a legislative agenda of the CFP, I cannot help but say something to Mrs Paula Santos. Madam Member, the CFP comes here once again to be concerned about the autoarchs, about the populations, but I do not know very well what, except in the elective places, which has been so well mentioned here by my colleague. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u78	That's your petty criterion!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u79	Taking away this concern, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to tell me, in this plenary, what has been the extinct parish. Not administratively, but what was the parish that ceased to exist, because either you don't go through the country, or the 52 parishes of my county still exist. Tell me what they were. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u80	You have to tell me where you parked your spaceship!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u81	Taking this away, one thing is speech, which is what you here are doing, in an apparent concern about the will of the people, and something else is your action. And you have never voted in favour of any proposal on the parish, either the amendment of appointment or limits. They did not vote, even when there were favorable opinions from the municipal assemblies, the municipal chambers, the assemblies of the parish. Tell me if you have voted in favour of these amendments! This is just to mark positions in this apparent marathon among all groups. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u82	To reply, Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u83	Mr President, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, I am grateful for the questions you have raised and will try to be brief in this reply. This is not a legal or management issue for the Left Block. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u84	This is a fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u86	Indeed, the previous government, the PSD and the CDS, did not want to know about democracy and applied a law to the wake of autoarchs and populations. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u87	That is exactly what the PSD/CDS government has done over four years of governance at all levels: it has applied taxes, it has caused more unemployment, it has caused more emigration, it has caused a series of laws to everyone's wake and the pretext of the troika, and — see! — the troika did not mention anything in relation to the question of local authorities, in this particular case of the authorities. And your government has razed, the rule and the frame, 1168 parishioners at national level. With regard to the figures that Mrs Schleicher has raised, saying that they have reached them by consensus and with consultation with the people, that is not what the data and results say. The Left Block has a very small set of rules, offices and motions, which have come to your knowledge, which say exactly the opposite, Mrs. There is also a set of autarchs, at national level, that says so. Now, on the referendums, Mrs Deputies, I would like to convey to you the memory, saying that the Constitutional Court has validated in 2012 the referendum that was made in the parish of Millionaires de Poiares —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u89	... and we have a set of judgments of the Constitutional Court, case law, which considers this validity—and we also have the European Charter of Local Autonomy, which the Portuguese State has signed. It is therefore the responsibility of the Portuguese State to comply with these international legal standards. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, this is a matter that has to do with people's lives. Local democracy impoverished, local democratic power was the subject of a very profound blow and was one of the main achievements of the April Revolution. In fact, justice will be done, an injustice will be restored, in these 40 years of commemoration of the democratic local power, if many of the extinct parishes are repaired and return to the initial figure by the express will of the populations and the autarchs, and a local referendum is only considered as such. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u90	For an intervention, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Allow me a special greeting to all the autoarchs present here. 100 years have passed over Law No 621, which in its Chapter I, Article 2. the, determined that : « Civil parishes are now officially known as parish churches, the administrative body so far referred to as a parish board ». The Assembly of the Republic, the Mother House of Democracy, as it is customary to call it, pointed out the moment and the President of the Assembly of the Republic, Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, in his speech, recalled, and I quote: "A new democracy of proximity will always have to pass through the local authorities. In these 40 years of local democracy, the authorities were the engine of the country's infrastructure, helping to democratize access to sanitation, housing, transport, culture, sport, environmental and social rights fundamental to human development. We now need a generation of decentralising policies." This awareness of the importance of the authorities, from the outset of the parish, in the context of national development, brings with it a responsibility to which the Socialist Party responds « present». The Socialist Party assumes, with great honour, its constant presence alongside the representatives of the local power in defending the autonomy of local authorities whenever negative changes have been imposed to the functioning of their organs and with adverse consequences from the political power. By Act No 22 / 2012 of 30 May, the PSD / CDS Government took over in Article 2. , in point ( b ), « Enlargement of the tasks and powers of the parish and of the corresponding resources ; » and, in point ( d ), « Improvement and development of the public services of proximity provided by the parish to the populations ; ». Now, with the publication of Law No. 11 -A / 2013 of 28 January, the right-wing government has extinguished 1168 fregueses, or, if they wish, added, in a process full of errors, at the same time that, in parallel, public services were closed which were decisive for the survival of the territories themselves. These extinctions and errors resulted in serious consequences for the populations, who saw their parish boards disappear, the services they provided them and other services that guarantee life in the territories. The legal regime of the territorial territorial administrative reorganization has proved to be a achievement, showing the lack of knowledge of the real country by the PSD and the CDS. From the first moment that the Socialist Party expressed its position, rejecting a law that did not respect the autonomy of the local power by not listening to or ignoring the positions of the joints, assemblies of parish, chambers and municipal assemblies that manifested themselves against it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Once again, it will be up to the Socialist Party and the other left parties to defend the legitimate aspirations and needs of the populations, identifying, evaluating and correcting the manifest errors of this process. There are no dead files for those who defend the population! With the fall of these projects to their committee, the left again demonstrates a high sense of responsibility, aiming at finding positions and a joint action strategy to better serve the populations. We do not lose in mystifications and ghosts, as the PSD does, which has become clear here today. Through the Order No. 7053 -A / 2016, the Government of the Socialist Party constituted a technical group that has the mission to evaluate the administrative reorganization, defining objective criteria, with the direct participation of the representatives of the National Association of Fregues and the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, valuing the joint work, experience, knowledge and respect for the autonomy of the local power. Thus, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group requests the Government to be able to identify, as soon as possible, the manifest errors and the most unjust processes that Act No. 11 -A / 2013 of 28 January imposed on some Fregueses and territories of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party's commitment is not exhausted in correcting decisions affecting the territory, thus revealing the political inability of the PSD/CDS government to hear those closest to the population, will also extend to the strengthening of the intervention areas to be attributed to the parish, which, of course, will be differentiated. After listening to those responsible for the parish, we will correct the mistakes and shortcomings of the law, improving it, through the development and strengthening of new competences for all of the parish, in a clear process of decentralization for those who meet, from the very nearest point of view, conditions for better performance. Effective development and strengthening will be assumed by free choice of every parish according to its local reality and specificity, with the corresponding allocation of human and financial resources that ensure more efficient and closer management. It is essential to strengthen the powers of local authorities based on the principle of subsidiarity, to promote competitiveness and to ensure the functioning of public services of proximity. Only in a transparent and objective way can we dignify local power, value democracy and justify a responsible relationship between populations and their organs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u92	Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, the Bureau has registered, to request clarifications from the Members. Deputies Antonio Topa, from PSD, and João Vasconcelos, from BE. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u93	Madam President, I am replying together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u94	Mr António Topa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u95	Mrs President, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, I begin by welcoming her and referring to the draft laws which the PCP and BE here present for discussion propose, essentially, the replacement of the extinct fries by Law No 11 -A / 2013. The replacement of the extinct fragesias, intended by these parties, operates for the re-establishment of the laws which created them, with the wording which was in force before the date of their extinction. More: It is proposed that the replacement of the frequencies be carried out in such a way that the 2017 municipal elections already consider them for election purposes. The draft resolution of the Socialist Party recommends to the Government, with regard to the reform of the parish, that « it promote a process of assessing the territorial reorganization of the parish, with the participation of all the parish and municipalities, to measure the results of the merger / aggregation and correct the poorly solved cases ; ». It can also read: « (...) the territorial reorganization of the parish must be duly reassessed following the 2017 electoral act, on the basis of objective criteria that allow local authorities to measure the results and correct the poorly solved cases, (...) ». Truly, the reorganization process of the parish began on May 17, 2011, the date on which the Memorandum of Understanding was signed with the troika. [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u96	This Memorandum stated in paragraph 3.44 that the PS Government is committed to making a significant reduction in the number of authorities. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Prior to that day, in the first government of José Socrates, Dr. António Costa stated that there was no sense in the existence of parishioners with less than 1000 inhabitants, position at the time shared by many leaders of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u98	Pedro Silva Pereira, during the negotiations with the troika, in the second government of José Socrates, said that the negotiations were difficult because they intended to reduce the number of parishes by half and the number of municipalities by 100. the PSD/CDS government was intended to comply with what others committed themselves to.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u100	The Green Paper on Local Administration Reform was presented by the PSD Government / CDS. Between its presentation and the beginning of the discussion of the bill, 15 months passed, sufficient time to hold a discussion on the reorganization of the fregueries. Many party forces and some autocras from some political parties did not want to discuss it. They said that the populations were not heard, that the reform was being done the ruler and the painting. And now, with the Bills of Bloc and PCP, isn't that the rule and frame? Yeah, no! It's anyway! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u101	For them, it's enough to hear the parish assemblies and the municipal assemblies. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And nothing else! What about the populations? in recent times, Prime Minister Dr. António Costa said: "We cannot always be undoing what has been done. There is nothing more difficult than making an administrative reform, and therefore it cannot be done in a hurry, needing before three or four years». That is, if you do well, we will have a reform for 2019 / 2020! The Deputy Minister, in recent statements in the Committee on Economic Affairs, expressed the position that the evaluation of the entire process of extinction of the fregueries and their possible reversal should be properly assessed and that it should not be reversed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u102	The Government Programme, the PS Electoral Programme, the major Plan Options for 2016 / 2019, and the 2016 State Budget Report on this subject always present the same text : « The territorial reorganization of the parish will be evaluated, setting objective criteria that allow the autarchies themselves to assess the results of the merger or aggregation of the fragesias and correct any missolved cases ». The PS draft resolution in paragraph 1 recommends to the Government the same thing. Same text. I would like to ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha the following: do you not believe and trust that the Government will comply with its Programme, with the PS Electoral Programme, with the Great Plan Opinions for 2016 and 2019 and with the 2016 State Budget Report? Do you need to recommend it? [[PSD applause.]] We think, however, that the intention was different: to give a signal to the Left Block and the PCP that would submit their projects to the vote, because eventually the PS would vote against, and so would we. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u103	It will happen to you the same thing that happened with the taxi project: they will withdraw the project. But this matter is not part of your agreement with the PS. Be brave: submit these proposals to the vote! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u104	I note that Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has decided to waive the request for clarification. As such, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u105	Madam President, Mr António Topa, I am not going to read what the Government Programme says, since you have already done so and we are therefore in perfect harmony with that. The Socialist Party has a commitment and will honor it. The Socialist Party's parliamentary bench could never stand by a debate as important as this, when, at the time of the application of the law, it took, from north to south of this country, a position in which it claimed that the positions of the authorities were taken into account,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...what didn't happen because the PSD/CDS government decided to ignore. in the specific case, there is a great difference. I also want to tell you, in order to reassure you and your bench, the following: the Socialist Party does not support a complete reversal of a process of this nature. [[Ah...!]] [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u106	It would be — and I did not — a lack of responsibility, but because responsibility is also what the PCP and the Left Block bench gave good notice when they accepted that the bills and the draft resolution could be analyzed and improved together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u107	Against your will, sirs. PSD Members!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u108	What matters here is first of all to correct what is wrong and secondly to respect the position of the people. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u109	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are for, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens Ecological Party, to greet all the citizens of the country, especially those with us today, for their dedication, effort and commitment to combat structural delays, to combat internality, to create infrastructures, to provide public services to the people and, therefore, to contribute to the development of the country and to solve the problems of the population. [[PCP applause.]] We also want to welcome the autarchs for their fight against the extinction of fregueses imposed by the previous government, the PSD and the CDS. from the Greens, I remember that we have always been against this process which the previous government has baptized of « administrative reform», but which, in fact, did not go through a process of extinction. And we've been against this process since the first hour. In addition, the removal process was the most contested decision of the PSD / CDS government. It was a decision that left the Government practically alone, it was a case imposed on the wake-up of the opinions of the local authorities' bodies, it was a case against everything and against all—against the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, against the National Association of Freguess, against the authorities and against the populations. No one has seen, indeed, no one continues to see any benefit, any contribution of this law imposed by the PSD and the CDS to improve people's lives. on the contrary, as very well mentioned by the populations, this law brings very negative impacts to their lives and is a factor in impoverishment of the democratic dimension. As the people say, wisdom has not prevailed in the law, nor in the government that imposed it. Events, concentrations, actions of struggle, below signed, petitions addressed to the Assembly of the Republic, all served to witness the size and revolt of people with this decision of the PSD / CDS Government. A protest that apparently only the CDS didn't see. We're sorry! And the protest was great because the case was no less. After all, the parishes that, over time, were developing their important work with people, with voters, responding to the needs and concerns of the population, but also contributing to the development of the country and to national cohesion, were being the target of an unprecedented attack by the PSD and the CDS. In other words, despite the importance that the parish is for our democracy and for the people and, despite the opposition of all people and on all sides, the previous government, moved by its difficulties in living with our democracy and with the local democratic power, continued its purpose to extinguish the parish. With serious damage to national cohesion, to the loss of local identity, to the exacerbation of inequalities among citizens in access to equipment, to democratic impoverishment and manifest a complete disregard for the will of the peoples and their local bodies, the former government, in a seated state, has extinguished more than 1 thousand people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u111	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u112	And then we heard Mrs PSD say, "Tell us the name of an extinct parish?" It was over 1,000!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u113	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u114	As a result, the PSD and the CDS have removed from our democracy about 20,000 people elected by the parish and with this process has ended up losing proximity, one of the pillars in which the structure of the local power is based. The gentlemen. PSD Members both say that they were forced to make the reform as they say the reform was good. We understand that if the reform was good, it is not clear why they continue to flee to the paternity of the work. It is as simple as that, Mr. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] Having arrived here, and since the PSD and CDS government was already, created as a new parliamentary framework, it is important to think again about people, their concerns and their problems. It is therefore urgent, therefore, not only to replace the old government's extinct parish, but also to reintroduce the legal regime for the creation of fragese prior to the so-called 'administrative reorganization' of the PSD/CDS Government, which, in this process, also inhibited this House from creating any kind of parish. It is therefore of interest to put back all the ferries which were extinguished by the previous Government, in which there was no agreement with the Government's proposal or that there was no consensus of the respective deliberative bodies with a view to aggregation of the frequencies and where, of course, there is no opposition to the bodies involved today. In view of the experience that time has already allowed to assess, it is also important to enable deliberative bodies that understand it, regardless of the position they have taken when called upon to pronounce themselves in the process of aggregation of freguesis, the possibility of revising their position, bearing in mind the experience of the last three years. Because this is not a random choice, as Mr President recently said; it is to listen to the authorities, it is to listen to the bodies involved. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] Convinced that the replacement of the parish is an important contribution to strengthening the democracy of proximity and to solving the problems of the people, The Greens once again reaffirm their commitment to the democratic local power, to our democracy and to the people. [[Congratulations from Os Verde, BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u115	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Truly, in 2012 it happened in parallel, although with a simultaneous vote, two different acts or a reform and a pseudo-reform. The pseudo-reform was «Relvas law», as has already been said, which decided to deal with this issue without any time of reflection and discussion and imposing on the country a completely inadequate solution in many cases. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it was also approved in 2012 the reform of Lisbon and it cannot be ignored, because it was a reform, above all, decentralizing, which, more than reorganisation of the territory, implied decentralizing competences. It can even be said that, for the first time since 25 April 74, a reform arose in which a body, an entity with a more centralized power, gave up its own competences, transferring to a lower level, to a level of greater proximity, competences that were its own and financial resources, and no longer being able to manage these same financial resources. The great secret of the Lisbon reform is that the Fregueses in Lisbon have more competences, have political autonomy and do not depend on the President of the House to request protocols and delegation of competences. This was the real reform, it was the true spirit that introduced a new kind of authorities in which, as President António Costa said, the parishes of Lisbon are now managed by a territorial councilor only with the advantage of being independent of the authority, having political autonomy and administrative autonomy. I think this is the way forward. When we discuss the territory, we must not fail to discuss the competences and what needs to be sought for the rest of the country and for the rest of the parish—and I am the chairman of the parish board with great pride, I must say to you, that the parishioners of the rest of the country have the same level of competences, naturally adapting and understanding what are rural ferries and urban ferries, the same level of autonomy and the same level of resolution capacity that now have these ferries in Lisbon and that unfortunately many ferries in the rest of the country do not, because they do not, in fact, depend on good humor, or good will, or on local political games so that they can have a little more capacity to solve people's problems. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we reflect on the repair that has to be done with regard to «Relvas law », with regard to the administrative reorganization of the territory of the country, what is crucial here is to take account of that we are losing, we are going to be poorer if we are only going to discuss the territory, which is the border of each parish, whatever name or space each has. We must put in this discussion the powers, we must include in this debate the territory and the powers and many chamber presidents will react negatively because they will be placed before the prospect of losing power, losing money and ultimately losing authority. This is the great reform, they are not deluded, and that is what we need to discuss in the country, that is, what kind of authorities we want in the country, what kind of fries we want, what kind of response and quality of response we all have to give to our populations. Therefore, if there is anything else I can say and if any lesson can be drawn from the reform of Lisbon is that it is not possible to discuss the territory without discussing the competences. That is what has to be on the table, and that is what I think we must now work on in the Committee on Labour in the Working Group on Local Power. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u117	To request clarification from Mr Miguel Coelho, Mr Mauricio Marques, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mr Miguel Coelho because, finally, a member of the Socialist Party says something relevant on this matter. I wanted to take advantage to greet and pay tribute to all the authorships of parish, recognizing the excellent work done over these 40 years. The PSD is the party that most autocrats have offered to the public cause. Since 1976, he has elected more than 145 000 French autorcas. The actual expression of the PSD makes it the closest party to the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u120	Despite the constraints we had to face and already mentioned here by my colleagues, there were no dismissals in the parish, no closure of services, no privatization, as the left said. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, many speak of strengthening the role of the authorities, many speak of strengthening the power and competences of the parish, but it was with us that for the first time, the parish had the right to collect the rustic IMI and to have 1% of the urban IMI. at that time, the PS did not accompany us, as it never accompanied us in anything. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u121	Some examples have already been given here. Bad examples were given and the good example of Lisbon. The example of Lisbon was good because it counted on the active participation of the Social Democratic Party. in the rest of the country, all parties boycotted this reform, including the Socialist Party, which did not allow its authors to speak at the very moment. And that is what was lacking in the reform, that is, the participation of the Socialist Party, which has committed itself but has not participated in it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u122	To reply, Mr. Miguel Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u123	Mr President, Mr Mauricio Marques, the good example of Lisbon is because it was a process, it was a reform that lasted three years, while the pseudo-reform that you talk about took three months and it was an imposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The good example of Lisbon was because there began the process with an order to two university institutions to do two studies on the city, one on the perspective of the territory and the other on the perspective of competences. That was not done in the reform that you are now defending. The good example of Lisbon is that I had a President of the House today, Prime Minister, who at the time said « I am available to lose power, I am available to give budget, through the State budget, not a delegation of competence, I am available to create a new kind of parishioners », which you have neither encouraged nor put into question. The good example of Lisbon is that the debate was a big debate, sparked a political agreement, with the agreement of the local PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u124	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u125	... it is clear that yes, and from this political agreement came out a new type of parish that in fact has the ability to resolve, the ability to intervene, the ability to disagree without being subject to blackmail of the type « votes as I want in the municipal assembly or not pass you the delegation of competences to do the road or arrange the tour ». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u126	This is the good example of Lisbon, and this is what I want for the country, i.e., for the parish to gain more and more autonomy in the face of municipal chambers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u127	Mrs. Members, let us continue with the speeches this time by Mr Hélder Amaral, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this subject, I wanted to put some rigour in the debate. It was a parliamentary majority, in the exclusive use of the competences of the Assembly of the Republic, which took place the previous reform, but it was also with the participation of many authorities, of many municipal assemblies, of many Freguesian assemblies. Therefore, it would not be unfair to think that there are first-and-second-degree autarchs, because there was wide participation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u130	I would also like to say that the CDS has full authority on this matter. We have always been and are in favour of an administrative reorganization and we have said that we are in favour of essentially reforming the urban parish. We're going down with the constitutional precept, but that's where we should make a huge reduction in the parish,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u132	... protecting the countryside, to protect the proximity, to protect the public service, to protect the most deprived populations. That was always our logic. I will say more: we are even available to go to the municipalities, where, eventually, we also need to think about a logic of better service, more democracy and protection of the autonomy of local power.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u134	These questions, to us, do not affect us. Now, starting from the principle that this was done on the back of the authorities is that I cannot accept it. The National Association of Freguesias commissioned a study, which has already been mentioned here. This study, in fact, answered less than 50 %, but what the study indicates is that the reform was peaceful,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u135	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u136	... that the difficulties have been reduced, that the aggregation of the fragesias...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u137	You should read the whole document and not just a paragraph!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u138	I can quote and even ask for the distribution of the study done by the National Association of Freguesias with the Association of Regional and Local Law Studies, so that they can read it, where all the numbers are and where they can prove that even in the transition and difficulties of implementation of the reform the answers were in the sense that there was little or no difficulty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u140	So it's important to know what you want, what most people want and what they're going to do. That's the question that remains. After all, is this a debate to take seriously or is it an account debate using Parliament only for electoralism and political campaign? That's what matters. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] It is also important to know what the Socialist Party is here and whether it has been serious and supportive of its partners. The Socialist Party has to say whether it is with the position of António Costa President of the Lisbon Chamber, and that we still hear,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u142	... which has drastically reduced the number of parish churches in the city—and I am not talking about transferring own or delegated competences, because this is another discussion I agree with—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u143	It was 53 to 24!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u144	... or by Antonio Costa Minister of Internal Administration, who wanted to annihilate the parish with less than 1000 voters, were rural or urban,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u145	... or if the Socialist Party now comes to say that it is already for 2017 that will correct this mistake that was the reform and then, suddenly, deceiving the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, says that after all not because they are already consolidated, there were elections, it remains for 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u146	This isn't about doing, it's just about cheating!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u147	We know what's going on!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u148	But in 2018 there will be no new elections and there will be no further consolidation of the local executives and, therefore, the problem is not doubled? Oh, my God! In fact, I'd like to know what you're going to do. I confess that I hope that the Communist Party will still be the old Communist Party we know: consistent and that it will take consequences from its proposals, taking your proposals to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u149	All right! It's taking votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u150	It's not just cheating!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u151	You don't want to discuss this!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u152	The Portuguese Communist Party, if it considers this reform fundamental, if it is all that they say in defense of the authentic power, then it has to do one of two things:...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u153	The PS doesn't leave!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u154	... or ask the authors of the Portuguese Communist Party, as you have already done in the past, to authorize leave and day off to make demonstrations and make a demonstration with an easy slogan saying« The struggle continues, government to the street! », because you are being deceived by the supporting government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u155	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u156	... or the Portuguese Communist Party has to explain why it has submitted 166 draft resolutions in this Parliament for the reversal of these frequencies. Question: Has there ever been a reversal?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u157	It's not gonna happen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u158	I will repeat: 166 draft resolutions! Now they appear with a power schedule. Question : And what is the consequence? What do you have to tell the autarchs here? What's really going to happen? [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u159	That the Left Block could say, but the Left Block, this weekend, gave another example of what it is. Finally, it is a lot of theatre and, as we know, in the theater it's all taken care of, nothing is to take seriously.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u160	You're throwing 'balls out'!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u161	So I don't expect the Left Block, on this matter, to say anything. What I would like to say, recognizing that there may be mistakes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u162	Is that from the taxpayer's party you're talking about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u163	...is that, on time, there is, on our part, availability to correct...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u164	Are you going to vote this time? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u165	... because things have to be exactly this way, but the responsibility is for who they propose and who they make up the government is the Green Party, the Left Block, the Socialist Party and the Portuguese Communist Party. Now, it is enough that in the negotiations on Thursdays, or on other occasions, the Communist Party of Portugal says: "For us, this is a fundamental reform. For us, it is an essential reform" and that the Left Block says exactly the same thing and in the next negotiation force the Socialist Party to be clear, coherent and consistent. It is not worth having discussions only on the forthcoming elections, not linking absolutely anything that is a real problem of local authorities, which is a serious discussion on the competences, own or delegated, on the financial means, on cooperation with the government, on the new need for talks, not to add more territory—as my colleague Lima Costa said—but for inter-municipalism, to have more cooperation between the parish and the municipal chambers. I recognize that there are very few agreements that should be made in terms of transfers of competence, but this is a discussion that is not being made here. Just read what you're proposing. You are here to propose an ambush, a lie, a fraud. If not, they have the courage to take seriously and take consequences from what they are promising. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u166	Mr Hélder Amaral, you have a request for clarification by Mrs Carla Cruz, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hélder Amaral, here you have made an intervention by staging, as if the CDS had no responsibility for the problem we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u168	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u169	It was the PSD/CDS-PP government that created this problem, it was the PSD and the CDS-PP that actually extinguished 1168 fries. And the honourable Member here accuses the CFP and asks what is the responsibility of the CFP?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u170	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u171	Mr President, the CFP has already shown its responsibility here: it has put forward a proposal. [[CDS-PP protests.]] What we ask you is how you position the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u172	Against!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u173	And, moreover, what answers will the CDS give to the problems that the elect, for example—is only one example—of Airão S. João, Airão Santa Maria and Vermil, in the municipality of Guimarães, present when they mention that every day they are confronted with movements to defend their elect, having their extinct territories, their fragesias?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u174	Be patient! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u175	Mr. Hélder Amaral, what response does he give to the voters of the parish of Merelim São Paio, Panoias and Parada de Tibães, in the municipality of Braga, when they say that before the extinction there were nine members of the executive who accompanied these three fries and now there are three? It is because, Mr President, they are not able to reach all the problems and there was no difficulty in accompanying them before; indeed, when there were nine electors, there was a closeness, knowledge and an insertion into the community. What answers do these electors give? This is what the CFP would like to hear, but, no, what the CDS-PP did was an act, deresponsibility of the problem it created and of the vile attack it made on local democratic power. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u176	It was not to the democratic local power, but to the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u177	To reply, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u178	Madam President, Mrs Carla Cruz, I thank you for your question. Perhaps I have spoken too quickly and perhaps the honourable Member will not have noticed, but I said that the CDS participated in the last reform, voted in favour of this reform and said until something that few will have the courage to say, that it was what we were even available to go to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u179	Take a good look! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u180	You know why? Because I am concerned about the people and I am not worried about the places or the election results of the « my yard»! That is the point. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It will therefore be available to me here to discuss competences, agreements, delegations, whatever they are themselves or are delegated to strengthen the role of the authorities, the councils of the parish, the assemblies of the municipalities, the municipal assemblies — and to strengthen and respect the power of the authorities and the municipal chambers. On this matter, we are perfectly in agreement. So, there's no mistake. Who, with consistency, presents 166 draft resolutions, who convenes a legislative debate, who, like the old Portuguese Communist Party — who has learned to respect — considers that there are fundamental subjects but have no maturity, manifests itself on the street. Mrs. Member, call that company of permanent demonstrations, led by Armenio Carlos, and call a demonstration to push the PS to make this reform...! Do it there, please! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u181	For an intervention on behalf of the PS, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Autarchs present: They say that the heart of democracy dwells in local power. Nothing more true. And their roots are in particular in the parish. Freguesia have been the cell of proximity par excellence and one of the most influential agents of social cohesion. When we talk about the need for a human face in institutions, the phregueses are that face. Resuming its oldest tradition, it can be, and must be, spaces of solidarity. The 100 years we mentioned in this House last week are an indelible and greater brand of our history, a history that was built with the parish and its authorships. As stated in the Strategic Guidance Document of the 15th National Congress of ANAFRE, the parish is responsible for the democratization of the country, contributing to its work for economic development, for the sustainability of the territory and for the dynamization and civic participation of citizens. The debate we are having today in this House is precisely about local democracy, proximity and subsidiarity, decentralization, strengthening competences, in short, we are talking about development today. We therefore welcome the CFP for this agenda and the Left Block for its contribution to this discussion. Being able to disagree with some of the solutions, we do not fail to review the need for consensus for which ANMP calls us in its latest opinion and to discuss in depth these issues and the valorization of local power. That is how we will do it in the committee responsible. With the State Budget for 2016, the Socialist Party has adposted, and well, in autonomy, decentralization and investment at the level of local power. It has put itself in autonomy, because this principle has been restored, as an essential factor for a relationship of cooperation and trust, eliminating rapist and penalizing rules, in particular on the simplification of the hiring of workers, the law of commitments, among others. It was affixed to decentralization, because it was planned to implement the action plan for decentralization, as a pillar of effective state reform and as an instrument for territorial development and combating asymmetries between regions. He was affixed to the investment, because public investment has been strengthened, raising income for families, necessary to meet the needs and aspirations of the populations. The PS, either in the Agenda for the Decade, or in its Government Programme, was clear in the defence of the consolidation of local and critical authorities of PSD / CDS reform, whose fusion / aggregation of freguesis was a missed opportunity of a consensus reform that strengthened the competences, means and size of the fregueries, and that should have resulted from a participatory impulse of the authorities themselves. That's not what happened. It was a beaten and wounded process of auscultation and effective dialogue. Against everything and against all. of the proximity seized by the right in Law No. 22 / 2012, it was distanced. of the state's alleged presence on the right, there was a lack of closing essential public services as courts, which have now reopened in the defense of accessible justice, under the aegis of the existing government. The dead archive, after all, Dear Members of the PSD, was Portugal and the « swirling to the side » was the « swirling to the side» of the PSD and the coalition for the suffering and impoverishment of the Portuguese. We want to make a difference. Therefore, the territorial reorganization of the parish must be reassessed and we want, above all, to deal with it with objective criteria that allow local authorities to measure the results and correct the poorly solved cases, already on the basis of a new legal framework, to approve as soon as possible. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in this democratic framework that we are working on an integrated logic that requires dialogue with representative associations such as ANAFRE and ANMP, as we are doing, so that, in a serene, thoughtful manner and with a strategic and prospective vision, an authentic agenda is being prepared that the new times so demanding require. The preparation of a framework law that enables us to develop the constitutional principle of local autonomy, which is an instrument of decentralization of the State and which promotes the proximity and efficiency of the services provided, will be the cornerstone of raising the competences of the local authorities, and of freguesia, in particular, to another. Thus, there is a need to correct errors and cases that were not decided under the 2013 law, to look at the current map by making an objective assessment and at the same time consolidate local authorities by strengthening the competences of the parish, providing them with new competences, differentiated according to their nature and making progress towards decentralization. For PS, the delegation must move forward towards an era of its own competence and universal character. Forty years later, the democratic local power must move forward, with the parish taking over the place that is due them while democracy and proximity. The draft resolution we are presenting supports this plan for participation and involvement and also for strengthening competences. This is the time of strategic action, of innovation and, above all, of inspired by Republican values, that do not fade by decree (as some have done by extinguishing the holiday of 5 October) and that we, PS and the left, have resumed to celebrate again, in democracy, the Republic and the local power, always! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u183	The Bureau did not record any requests for clarification from the honourable Member. Therefore, you have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Emília Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Autarchics present in the galleries: The PSD, as a great Portuguese autarchic party, always says « present! » in the debates allusive to local administration and boasts of the very varied reforms promoted by our previous governments, which allowed us today to have a stronger, more sustainable, more modern, more capable and more capable local power in response to the wishes of the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u186	Today, as in the past, the PSD is proud of the work of its French authorships, as it is proud to elevate the principle of local autonomy to the highest level of democracy. And it is for all this, but especially with regard to the authorities and our authorities, that we have seen this House defend, with a sense of responsibility, a principle that has fallen into disuse in this left-wing government: stability. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need stability. Authorities and populations, at a time when the elections are approaching, need stability. [[PSD applause.]] As Mr President of the Republic says, the parish needs « a stable legal framework ». They need « possible legislative changes to be duly weighted under a stable legal framework, which is an instrument to support neighbourhood policies and not a source of uncertainty or bureaucratic obstacles ». They count on PSD to collaborate in the construction of this design; they do not contain us to reverse, to undo and to destabilize. Above all, they don't count on us to change what we haven't evaluated yet. Because this has a name, which is not beautiful. It's called levanity. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] I would say that, in the framework of the current government solution, it has an even worse name: revenge. Fortunately, it seems that the Socialist Party has decided for the first time to accompany us in this understanding. Therefore, in this regard, it is not available to change without assessing the territorial reorganization of the parish with a view to introducing any corrections, which should happen only after the 2017 autarchies. I'm glad the Socialist Party thinks so! Let us hope that it will continue to think this way and not change its position in the name of its political survival. [[PSD applause.]] Nevertheless, I do not recall here that this is the same Socialist Party that did not make any contribution to a reform of the parish which resulted from the commitment signed by the Government of José Socrates to the troika. This is the same Socialist Party that, as at that time, as in a premonition, preferred to associate itself with those who make the protest and criticism by criticizing their politics and their food. This is the same Socialist Party that is now associated with the CFP: a political force that wanted to disinform populations and frighten people with papal fists. They announced the chaos for this country, when the last elections were the ones that recorded fewer incidents throughout our democratic history. [[PSD applause.]] Today, we almost wish to say, Mrs Paula Santos, that neither the collectives closed nor the ranches ceased to exist. [[PCP protests.]] Even so, the Communist Party continues to defend the replacement of the parish on behalf of the guarantee of proximity to the peoples and the values of identity, when we all know that your concern is to gain support for the forthcoming elections. Your hurry is unique and only this one! On the other hand, this and the other, somewhere hidden in your explanatory statement: the reduction in the number of political charges arising from the aggregation of frequencies. These, yes, are your concerns! [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PSD, local power is always, but always, an unfinished mission. unlike many who dare speak on behalf of the people forgetting that the people speak through the vote, the PSD, as responsible party that is, is available for, in the future, to improve with small adjustments the current map of the freguess, after a careful monitoring and evaluation process. And we are available for this, even though the ANAFRE survey shortly after the elections showed results that many did not expect. I remember that 50% of the respondents did not even feel the need to respond, and 70% of those who answered said that with the reform, the situation of the parish is equal or better. In other words, only 15 % — I underline, only 15 % — of Portugal's board presidents said they were worse. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CFP has called us today for a power debate focused on the parish. All parliamentary groups presented and defended their positions. We need to know the voting orientation of the parties that support the government. We need to know, too, when these diplomas will be voted on based on the assumption, according to information provided to the press by the Socialist Party, that the draft laws of the Bloc and the CFP should be lowered to their committee, without a vote in plenary. The PSD hopes that these initiatives will be put to the vote at a later opportunity, under the penalty of losing the practical effects for the upcoming 2017 municipal elections. [[PCP protests.]] Because if that doesn't happen, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one reading we all have to make: the Communist Party is misleading the Portuguese people in the true sense of the word. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, it is important to say that we are very sorry that the government is not here to know the position of the different parties. This is a very serious debate for us. We regret that the Government, with its absence, has thus underestimated the local power, a few days after we have marked the 100 years of the creation of the parish. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I shall finish as I began. We need stability.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u187	But a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u188	We need stability and seriousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u189	Listen to the people!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u190	what we do not need — and with this I have just finished — is reversals by pure political revenge. Democracy is not a toy. Local power must be respected and respected. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u191	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Emília Santos, the CFP has a question to ask Mrs Deputy because, past five PSD interventions, we have not finally been able to understand why it was important to put an end to the fraud in our country. They've run out of time and we still don't understand. [[PCP and PS applause.]] The honourable Member comes to speak in stability and weighting, but these were not values that served when you extinguished, cut, extorted. [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] Those values are only valid now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u193	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u194	Madam Member, the PSD will have an opportunity to answer the question I am going to ask you. The honourable Member spoke in the Green Paper that Minister Relvas said it was the basis for reform, but they did not listen to any parishioners on that document and those who spoke were completely ignored. The Green Paper spoke of promoting proximity to various levels, but what the reality is that today's electors, given the dispersion and size of the parish, find it difficult to monitor their problems. The resolution of the problems is now more time-consuming. This agglomeration increased the costs with travel and transport of employees. The headquarters of the parish boards are open, but how the procedures were transferred to the new parish headquarters are now much longer. The smaller parishes that had 10 elected members who participated and discussed the problems of their land today are reduced to two or three elected in what is the overall total of the present parish. [[PSD protests.]] And this is not to increase participation. You spoke in territorial cohesion, but there was no respect for the identity of the people. With regard to this argument on the scale, Mr Lima Costa, the dimension in the parish is not important, proximity is important. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u195	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u196	You didn't think about it. The parish had an important role in the animation of the territories. I give you the example of my parish, Santo Amador, in the municipality of Moura, which accounted for 5 % of the total population of the parish. This is not territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u197	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u198	The only answer you gave to the problems of territorial cohesion of the interior was to put an end to fregueses and that is not admissible. I could also talk about the costs that have not been saved, particularly in this idea of costs that have been leveraged, but that, in practice, with increasing the size of the population and the area, created conditions for more municipalities to be in the medium and full time and this did not save costs. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] I could give several examples of the Beja district. So I ask: if it was so important to end the parish, where did its extinction improve people’s lives? What problems did the extinction of the parish help to resolve?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u199	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u200	Where is the country better after they have extinguished more than 1,000 fregueses?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u201	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u202	And why did they never want to respect the will of the people? The honourable Member, in her speech, spoke about a lot, but she was unable to speak of the will of the people. These were the answers that the PSD and the CDS had to give in order to understand the real intentions of extinction. [[PCP, P.S. and Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u203	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mr João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u204	Mr President, in fact, we have seen here the authentic « numbers » of the PSD and CDS Members. The great irritation of the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS are that, indeed, management also works in this particular case of the parish! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u205	Look at the election results!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u206	That's why you're really upset! The country was used to the government before you had completely changed the numbers, distorted them, and took a very serious set of measures, and for which you should apologize to the Portuguese people, they should apologize to the local authorities. [[PSD protests.]] But, of course, you realize: excuses would be so much that you didn't have time to ask for them. Now, as time is short, the truth must be restored. In fact, the report which was mentioned here by the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and of the CDS and which is entitled The Freguesias in the organization of the State : the national heritage» says that, and I quote, "(...) there was no improvement, rather, either because the main characteristics of the freguesias, the proximity,..."
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u207	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u208	'...it is because the new parish has become an exaggerated population aggregate and a territorial dimension, lacking human, technical and financial means for the best continuation of the interests of their populations. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u209	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u210	It is not worth being misleading the country, because the reality is this, it is palpable, it is concrete! Moreover, there are differences in 70 % of aggregated territories and 11 % of these territories declare there is a lot of divergence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u211	Listen, listen! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u212	But in fact, the country is used to these 'numbers' on the right side that completely alters reality. The Left Block welcomes the positions of the Communist Party and also the position of the Socialist Party. We shall indeed discuss these proposals in the Commission against the will of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen on the right. [[PSD protests.]] You have to get used to the fact that we actually live in a new political framework. The right has lost power. We have a new majority in this House and you have to get used to it. [[PSD protests.]] Indeed, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that is our position. I'm sorry, but you don't rule anymore. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u213	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the parliamentary groups of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block for the initiatives presented here and which put on the political agenda a theme of greater importance for the citizens and our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD and the CDS come here to request the vote on these projects under discussion. I want to reassure you, sirs. Members, because these projects will be voted on in this House and because we do not make any reform on the backs of the citizens, the authorities and the people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u215	Do we vote now or there for October? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u216	The only thing we would like to know was the position on these projects of these two parliamentary benches. Proposals for a reform of the administration of the territory are under discussion, which, from our point of view, is an opportunity to follow up on what could be the most important structural reform in democratic Portugal on 25 April. This is a necessary reform...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u217	Which one? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u218	... and can only be seen as a serious challenge for both the government and for the opposition and for all those involved — autoarchs and citizens — in order to deepen the quality of democracy and establish standards of greater efficiency of management and of greater proximity to local administration. The 2013 pseudo-reform carried out by the previous government was a missed opportunity and today we cannot miss an opportunity to carry out a reform of the greatest importance for a modern Portugal for the benefit of people. This pseudo-reform was designed from top to bottom without the participation of the populations, designed the ruler and frame without meeting the roots and cultural, economic and social identification of the territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u219	It's been negotiated with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u220	Today, the PSD comes here with the most miserable of populisms: places and salaries. This is an insult to the elected autoarchs in our country, who have contributed so much to their development. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] They wanted to put an end to the debate on this matter, in the same way that, at the time, they killed it in the extinction of strawberries. This is called fraud in political discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u221	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u222	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u223	The debate was focused at the end of the line, when what we should first define was the model of the local power we want for Portugal and only then the territorial mesh, the size of the authorities, whether municipalities or parish. It is important to avoid repeating the errors of the PSD/CDS Government in this matter. It is also important to avoid a response to errors based on an accelerated strategy and the temptation of a total reversal framework, which would constitute a factor of instability and legislative disturbance. In view of the proximity of the end of the current mandates, a law that operated the automatic reversal of fused or aggregated frequencies and that did not value the local analysis capacity and the pronunciation of its representative bodies would be at risk of suffering from the same problems of the law that extinguished them. Reform of this dimension must be based on the principle of legislative stability and policy. It should therefore be based on the dialogue and involvement of all and it is of the utmost importance to build consensus and to avoid sudden changes in the legal framework, without the participation of ANAFRE and the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and to consider the decisions well. The involvement of ANAFRE and the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities is fundamental, so we emphasize the constitution, by the current government, of a technical group that aims to define the criteria for the evaluation of the territorial reorganization of the parish, proposing objective criteria that allow the autarchies themselves to assess the results of the fusion / aggregation process. As important as the map are the competences and the PS Parliamentary Group is committed to building something more than the mere discussion of maps of the parish, valuing the definition of a territorial reorganization model that relates to a new structure of competences and an appropriate scale to the exercise of these same powers. Fregueses must be part of a real reform of the state, by creating a model of articulation of tasks between municipalities and parishes that is a generator of a true value of decentralization and valuing of proximity management. The essential debate to be related to the factors of financial sustainability and human resources, aiming at a territorial model and competences. Frequencies are an essential part of the real reform of the State, based on the transparency and transfer of competences from the central administration to local authorities, the reorganization of the State's unconcentrated structure and the stabilization of the legal competence framework exercised by the Freguess. The last major reform, worthy of this name, of the administration of the territory is almost 200 years old. Not only demographic but also economic and social changes that have occurred during this period make it imperative that a profound reform of the territorial administration should take place, which should be based on three fundamental pillars: strengthening local autonomy, guaranteeing greater territorial cohesion and solidarity and the credibility of local power. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS, the Government and the Parliamentary Group are committed to this structural reform and are committed in a serious and non-populist way, are committed to its implementation and, above all, are responsible for creating the necessary consensus for its implementation, with a spirit of openness and dialogue, with all of them, and hope that the other parliamentary groups will respond positively, to build a genuine reform of the administration of the territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u224	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention, which I believe will end the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u225	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this schedule, the CFP wants to mark the beginning of a process of replacement of justice for populations. It is intended to return to the peoples the frequencies which the PSD/CDS government and its majority parliament have decided to extinguish in the last legislature. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS addressed this debate at the level of tric, manoeuvrism, of pseudo-advantages that the PCP would seek to withdraw with this power agenda. in fact, they have tried to lower the debate at this level. That's not our level! We're not going that way! [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The gentlemen. Members did not defend, they did not have a word to defend, in particular, the goodness of the pseudo-reform they did in the last legislature. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u226	First of all, you didn't want to, it was the troika that forced the extinction of the fragesias. Then they reduce this to the extinction of the places, insulting the authorships of parish, calling them tachysts, which they manifestly are not. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Next, you say, Mr. Álvaro Castello-Branco, that there was no dispute. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there was nothing else if you don't argue! There's nothing else if you don't argue! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] There were positions throughout the country, there were national demonstrations of parish autorcas. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We don't know what you think is a challenge. Do you think there's only a challenge when someone resorts to violent means? [[Don't! Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u227	No, sir. Members, the autoarchs of this country, the people of this country are peaceful; violent was the extinction of the fragesias that you have determined. [[PCP, P.S. and Greens applauded.]] But there is one thing in which you are consistent. in the past legislation you did not want to know the will expressed by the people and now you still do not want to know. This is the only point of consistency they have in this debate. [[PCP applause.]] Mrs. Members, the consequences of the extinction of the parish which you have determined could have been much greater if it had not been the sense of responsibility of the French authorities, who did everything to keep the old headquarters open, the services open to the people. That is to say, it was the sense of responsibility of the parish autarchs of all parties, of all parties, who contributed greatly to diminishing the lack of responsibility that you had with this reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u228	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u229	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us now discuss, with the populations, with ANAFRE, with the French authorities, the best solutions for the territorial reform of the parish. It's not the rule and frame, it's not anyway, it's listening to people. Nor is it, Mr. Miguel Coelho, importing models such as Lisbon. The fact that there has been convergence between the PS and the PSD in Lisbon does not mean that this has been peaceful. So, we're not gonna import this model,... [[Ah...!]] [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u230	...we will discuss with the populations, with the autoarchs and we will seriously discuss the best solutions. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to discuss things in concrete terms. It would be nice for you to listen, too, now! The Left Block presents a bill very based on local referendums, we will naturally discuss this matter. Obviously, local referendums are constitutional, they are legitimate, but I draw attention to two points that we will have to reflect. First, the referendum that you speak of, in Milheiros de Poiares, was not followed by the Municipal Assembly of Santa Maria da Feira. That is, the referendum only binds the authorical body that promotes it and, in this case, ended up disappointing the populations who have seen its will expressed, in the background, not to be followed. Then there is another problem in situations in which the extinct parish became a minority. An example: in the municipality of Santarém, the parish of Vaqueiros was absorbed by the parish of Casével, is in minority. If there is a local referendum, it will be about the whole of the parish and, therefore, no one guarantees us that it is not even the church that absorbs the smallest that promotes the local referendum in your interest, to keep things as they are. But I mean, we're gonna have to discuss this calmly and seriously. This is an important moment for local power; this legislative process will certainly be important for local power. Does it correspond to an election commitment from the CFP? Yes, we cannot be criticized for this, but we should be criticised if we do not comply with what we commit ourselves to before the voters. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u231	It is a democratic imperative and it is made to think, essentially, about the populations and expectations that people have created with the change of political cycle that we have gone through and that, from our point of view, cannot be disappointed. The populations have high expectations in the current legislature and we understand that this legislative process cannot result in the frustration of the expectations created by the populations. Let's do it over time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u232	What time?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u233	...but let's do it without hesitation. We are now moving forward with this legislative process so that the local elections of 2017 will take place with the election of the autoarchs of the parish which will be restored, according to the will of the people. [[PCP, P.S. and Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u234	No further interventions are thus completed today's work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u235	Madam President, are we not going to vote on the initiative?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u236	The Portuguese Communist Party, the author of this legislative agenda, has refrained from submitting the vote to the initiative. There was nothing to be added, nor was it compulsory, in addition to the order of business that there would be this possibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u237	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u238	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u239	Madam President, I would like to make this clear. Tomorrow there will be a voting period where these issues will be considered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u240	But lower to committee, without a vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-30.u241	This is how the clarification is done, with the authentic interpretation. Our plenary session today is concluded. We shall resume our work tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the agenda of the Socialist Party, a debate on the financial system, and, at the end, a vote on the Rules of Procedure. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 14 minutes.]]
