ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities opening the galleries. I give the floor to Mrs Secretary, Mrs Emilia Santos, to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr President, Bill No 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Return of cultural property which has been unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Union, transposing Directive 2014 / 60 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u3	We will move on to the agenda, the first item of which is the general debate on the drafts of lein. 107 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Eighth amendment to Law No 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December — Update of the minimum pension, social pension and rural pension at inflation level ( CDS-PP ) and 112 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The eighth amendment is made to Law No 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December, which creates the indexer of social support and new rules for the updating of pensions and other social benefits of the social security system ( PSD ). To present the CDS-PP bill, Mr. Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents in this House a bill to safeguard the purchasing power of more than 1 million pensioners. A bill that ensures that minimum, social and rural pensions of more than 1 million pensioners will be updated annually at least to the value of inflation. We are talking about pensions of 201 €, 241 € and 262 €. We are talking about the poorest pensioners, those who have no voice, those who cannot defend themselves and those who the Socialist Party, when it can, always try to harm. So it was in 2010 when you frozen these pensions. Thus it is again in 2016 when proposing an increase of 0, 4 % when the last expected inflation data is 1, 5 %. What the Socialist Party is now proposing in the government or the troika government has done: increases of €1 per month and, at best, increases of 3 cents per day. Those who in 2015 propose increases of €25 per month, such as the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, and who now support this government accepting for a year all that they promised for each month, now have the opportunity to demonstrate whether they are on the side of these pensioners, whether they maintain consistency in the proposals presented here or if they comply with increases that, in the words of Mr Jerome of Sousa, are scarce and are far from what is necessary. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must turn from words to acts and we will see what your vote will be like. The PSD/CDS government, which has surpassed the rescue and difficulties of the last four years, has managed to defuse minimum, social and rural pensions and has achieved increases well above the value of inflation, exactly the opposite of what the PS now intends to do. In 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 inflation amounted to 3, 3 %, while the increase in these pensions was 6, 2 %, an increase in the actual purchasing power of these pensioners in order of 2, 9 %. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we are proposing today in this House is an act of greater social justice because it is the lowest pensions in low pensions, it is an act of consistency and testing to the coherence of the parliamentary left benches, but it is, above all, an act of defence of more than 1 million pensioners. To be stricter and more precise, it is an act of defense of at least 1,075 359 pensioners. It's not an abstract number. They are people and it is from each of these pensioners that we are talking about today in this debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u5	To present the PSD bill, you have the floor of Mrs Susana Lamas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party, today in the opposition, is consistent with its practice in government. In fact, the PSD fights both in government and in opposition to policies to combat poverty and social inequalities and to promote the values of solidarity, equity, justice and social cohesion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u7	And, therefore, the draft law which the PSD Parliamentary Group now submits argues that for beneficiaries of social pensions, rural pensions and minimum pensions of the general scheme, in particular, the annual increase should be made according to the level of inflation planned for the year in question and, in the event of an unexpected increase in the level of inflation, the value of the initial increase of these pensions should also be updated until it is levelled with the final value of inflation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u9	Unfortunately, in Portugal, we continue to see very high levels of poverty and social inequality, which must be committed to combating. One of the particularly vulnerable social groups is that of the elderly beneficiaries of these social, rural and minimum pensions of the general scheme. in total there will be about 1 million pensioners who need this special support.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u10	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u11	Ladies and gentlemen. Members in 2010, more than half a year before Portugal ask for international assistance to avoid an inevitable bankruptcy, the socialist government of then frozen all pensions for 2011 including the lowest, including those of the poorest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u12	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u13	This freezing of pensions corresponded to a historical loss of the purchasing power of these pensioners. It was a dramatic decision that should never have happened. however, the PSD/CDS coalition government has always protected pensioners from the lowest pensions, even when it was obliged to comply with the requirements of the austerity programme that international creditors imposed on Portugal and that the socialist government then traded and signed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u14	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, instead of acting like the Socialist Government, which has frozen all pensions without exception, the PSD/CDS coalition government has updated the values of these pensions based on inflation, correcting the enormous lack of social sensibility towards the poorest that the former Socialist Government had shown.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u16	in this decision, between 2012 and 2015, the value of pensions of about 1 million Portuguese people receiving the lowest value increased by 6, 2 %. from here it resulted in a real gain of the purchasing power of these pensioners by 2, 9 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with these decisions in favour of pensioners from the lowest levels, the PSD/CDS coalition government has set itself up to combat the social inequalities which in Portugal are particularly flagrant among pensioners. however, the current socialist government is reluctant to make decisions that strongly harm the poorest. when deciding for 2016 an increase of only 0, 4 %, the socialist government, with the support of the radical left parties, strongly degrades the value of pensions, impoverishs the lowest pensioners and accentuates economic and social inequalities. We are not against the increase in pensions, until we have created the economic and financial conditions so that this can happen in a balanced way, but we all know that the inflation expected for 2016 is well above 0.4 %, which will result in a renewed loss of the purchasing power of the poorest pensioners, a flagrant return to the past of socialist governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u17	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u18	It is an unacceptable situation that must be corrected immediately, for the benefit of more than 1 million people and also for the prevalence of the values of solidarity, justice and equity, competing for a true social ethic to combat social inequalities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u19	For an intervention, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the CDS and PSD interventions on their proposals, there is a very simple and clear question to which they agreed to answer until the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u21	We vote for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u22	The question is, how can you defend your proposals as a more effective means of protecting the poorest elderly if the application of your proposals in the last four and a half years, when they were in power, has made poverty in the elderly grow every year? Oh, my God! Every year, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, if poverty has increased, they should have the humility and seriousness of recognizing that your proposals did not result in the past, as would not result from here forward. On the other hand, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot say that you have raised pensions to 1 million pensioners, because many of them receive more than one of the pensions we are talking about today. But to help clarify this debate we compare the increase in pensions approved by the Government and the proposal of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u23	But do they vote in favour or against? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u24	First: the PS government will increase all pensions to €628 this year ; with the proposal of the PSD and the CDS only minimum, social and rural pensions would be increased to a maximum of €262.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u25	No, no. More up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u26	Secondly, the PS Government is increasing 2, 5 million pensions; the proposal of the CDS and the PSD would only increase 900 000 pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Third: the PS Government is increasing all pensions this year, regardless of the contribution careers, up to €628; the PSD and CDS proposal is only proposed to increase minimum pensions up to 15 years of discount. The questions are clear. For the PSD and CDS minimum pensions with contribution careers equal to or above 30 years, which are up to € 379, should not be increased because this value is high? [[They must!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u27	Shouldn't they be increased because long and complete contributory careers don't deserve to be valued? [[They must!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u28	More, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Your sense of 'justice and true social concern', to quote the preamble to the CDS proposal, runs out in pensions up to €262. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS Government combines the increase in pensions up to €628 with clear rules that guarantee stability and predictability to beneficiaries, but also ensure the recovery of purchasing power, because it is always the inflation verified, not the inflation forecast, which determines the increase in pensions. In other words, if in 2016 the inflation verified is 1, 5 %, the 2017 pensions will be increased by 1, 5 % even if the inflation expected for 2017 is lower. Therefore, this pension increase method always guarantees the recovery of purchasing power. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members — and I shall finish —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u29	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u30	... by combining the increase in pensions up to €628 with the strengthening of the solidarity complement for the elderly, the PS government recovers the centrality of social minimum policies in the effectiveness of combating poverty and extreme poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u31	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u32	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for all these reasons, for all these reasons and against demagogy, it will be possible to resume the policy line that allowed Portugal to reduce the rate of poverty in the elderly, as is recognized nationally and internationally. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u33	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What PSD and CDS are doing is a gigantic exercise of hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u36	Oh, is it? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u37	The PSD and CDS are the welcome of austerity and come here today to pretend that they are ultimately in favour of the recovery of income. So much hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! So much hypocrisy! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] [[PSD protests.]] in the last four years, the PSD and CDS massacred pensioners and the elderly, kept frozen more than 80% of pensions, increased moderate rates, cut in the transport of patients, cut the solidarity supplement for the elderly to more than 70,000 people. I repeat: there are 70,000 people condemned to poverty by the PSD and the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u38	How do you vote? Oh, my God! Could not connect with command
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u39	Even the increase they talk about minimum pensions is a pure fallacy, because they have not increased them in the past and it does not propose to increase them now. The minimum pensions of € 274, € 303, € 379 and all the others are frozen — this was the proposal that was in your Programme and is the proposal they present today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u40	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u41	What they increased with one hand withdrew with the other. And so your policy—which has been wrong in the past and is wrong now—has made poverty worse than ever among the elderly and does not protect the poorest. The result of your choice was the worsening of poverty among the elderly. This error made in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 the option of PSD and CDS translates into punishment for the elderly and the diplomas that brought the debate today are only the expression that they have no shame in their face. [[PSD protests.]] Were you champions of inequality, persecution, court in social benefits and are you here today saying that you are fighting, whether in government or opposition, for policies to combat poverty and inequality? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of policies to combat poverty and inequality is a joke of bad taste, it is an insult to the victims of impoverishment! The Left Block is proud to be part of an agreement and a parliamentary majority that has defrosted all pensions up to €628, which restores the values of the solidarity complement for the elderly and engages in a policy to combat poverty. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] The « number» they do here today is bad, very bad, at the worst level of those B series films. But as Mrs Assumption Cristas would say, I may even call the CDS and PSD such an Oscar of the best fiction! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u42	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the beginning of this debate, I would like to say, on behalf of the CFP, what we have always said, that the need for the real increase in the value of pensions cannot depend solely on the thawing of the pension updating mechanism. Having said this, we would like to warn of the impact that some of the measures that are envisaged in the bills under discussion will have. The lack of announced thawing is evident. I repeat : it is evident that there is insufficient announced thawing! We therefore believe that it is important to reflect on the concrete need to value the actual increase in pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u44	Look at the management!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u45	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not playing with people's lives, we are talking about a dramatic reality, which is the fact that there are about 20% of the elderly below the poverty line in our country. That's what we're talking about. Therefore, in view of the evidence that it is insufficient to freeze, we would like to ask the PSD and the CDS if they consider that the diplomas that bring the discussion effectively respond to the needs. It's just, sirs. Members, the option made by defrosting the value of pensions to 30 % of pensioners is not a solution for the value of pensions to be valued. Do they consider the PSD and CDS that the proposed defrosting based on the inflation expected for the following year is the solution to the need for the recovery of pensions? Do you consider, in view of the need for the actual increase in pensions, that what they have to present is just the thawing based on the expected inflation?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u46	It's better than the Socialist Party's proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u47	We understand you're not, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. That is why we now say what we have always said in the past. What we really believe is that all the proposals made by the CFP in this House of extraordinary increases in the value of pensions have always been rejected by the PSD and the CDS. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, every time we discuss here the problem of poverty among the elderly and the need to take substantial action, such as the actual increase in pensions, the PSD and the CDS voted against. [[PSD protests.]] Moreover, we remember more: the PSD and the CDS, while they were in the government, frozen pensions and never made a proposal and never questioned the functioning of the pension updating mechanism. They always refer this matter to the State budget, because they never wanted to respond effectively to this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u48	Be successful!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I make it very clear that when we say that thawing is insufficient - and we have already said this here in a debate with the Prime Minister - it is because we understand that the needs and living conditions of the elderly require much more than the thawing that the PSD and the CDS propose. Take a good look, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u50	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u51	The evaluation we make—and I will finish, Mr President—is that it is still possible in 2016... [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] Ladies and gentlemen, listen carefully!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u52	I hear everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u53	As I was saying, the evaluation that the CFP makes is that even in 2016, it guarantees the increase in the actual value of pensions, particularly for pensioners with lower incomes. That's what we're looking at, that's what we're working on. [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u54	Mr Filipe Lobo d'Ávila has the floor for an intervention. It will certainly be a very quick intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This intervention, which will be very quick, is only to leave three notes very quickly at the end of the debate. First: the PS already recognizes that we are talking about 900 000 pensioners to be envisaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u57	Pensioners, no! Pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u58	Second: we are not against the increase in pensions, we are against the increase of 0, 4 %, which means 3 cents a day, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u59	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u60	Third: Hypocrisy and not having shame in the face is to have proposed 25 € per month in 2015 and now accept 3 cents per day, i.e. 1 € per month. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] The Oscar of fiction or, better, the Oscar of the achievement of the Left Block is to vote against this initiative. We'll see how you're going to vote, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u61	The Bureau was informed that there is a transfer of time from The Greens to the PS. That being the case, Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u62	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u64	Mr President, in view of what has been the tradition in this House, there has been good courtesy of all parliamentary groups respecting the fact that the parties presenting legislative initiatives close the debate. We do not have any kind of problem with the Greens Ecological Party transferring time to the Socialist Party—they are new ways—but the rest of the tradition I think it is to maintain.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u65	You're right! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u66	I think your comment makes sense, Mr President. Thus, we will move on to the next item on our agenda, which is from the discussion of draft resolutions 58/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the identification of the consequences of cuts in the National Health Service ( PCP ) and 64 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Lifting needs in the SNS and urgent intervention in services with serious failures or potentially broken ( BE ). To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, at the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, we discuss a draft resolution that recommends to the Government that all consequences be raised and identified, and in all areas, of the policy and ideological options that PSD and CDS-PP have taken in the field of health and in particular in the National Health Service. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, yesterday, we had the opportunity to discuss these consequences and the four years of PSD/CDS government policies in the area of health and, above all, in the National Health Service are well aware: it was the cuts in funding, it was the cuts in public investment, it was the option of hiring temporary work enterprises to ensure emergency services, it was the closures of proximity services, as well as the concentration and fusion of hospital valences, it was the mass exit of professionals and the non-contracting of professionals in need, it was the option for the social and professional devaluation of these professionals and of all health professionals, it was the postponement of consultations and scheduled surgeries, it was the break in emergency services. These political options clearly had a consequence in the decrease and weakening of the national health service's response capacity, either by reducing the number of beds in public hospitals, while increasing the number of beds in private hospitals, either by transferring the provision of public service care to large groups in the private sector, or by not providing medication to chronic patients, or by inoperative means of emergency facilities. Often and often here we have denounced these situations and the PSD and the CDS-PP always deny them, but reality, today, again, so the evidence. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we present here and what the reality of every day shows - and it is the health professionals themselves who say it and admit it - is that there have been patients, contrary to what the PSD and the CDS-PP have always said and still continue to say, that they have stopped consulting and have abandoned treatments because they have no economic and financial capacity to ensure them. Still yesterday, a PSD deputy said here that the options of PSD and CDS in the area of mental health were wonderful and that mental patients were in the best condition. That's what Mrs PSD said. Nothing more false! I'm walking through the corridors of psychiatric hospitals and seeing the lack of professionals in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u69	That is why, Mr. President, Mr. If there were any doubts, the reality shows the relevance and urgency of this lifting of the consequences of health policy carried out by the previous government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u70	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If we cover reality with a cloak of propaganda, we are not doing anything to improve people's lives, we are only repeating the prescription of the PSD and CDS regarding health. With this cloak of propaganda that they have given us debate after debate, everything is covered and everything is hidden. We learned that there were no cuts in health, although the National Health Service was underfunded; there was no reduction in staff, although there were no doctors and nurses in all hospitals; there was no reduction in the number of beds, although they were missing and hospitals did not have access to them. Says the PSD and CDS that there was no rupture in hospitals, what happened was that—see there! — patients, because they were sick, wanted to access health services in public hospitals. Now, that would be true if we wanted to surround and ignore reality, covering it with this cloak of propaganda. What people need, what people want, what people demand from us is not that we ignore reality, but that we change it to improve it. And that's what we want. That is why the Left Block presents and brings to this Plenary a project for a survey of all the needs of the National Health Service and for urgent intervention in services with serious failures or potential ruptures. That is why we say that austerity was not a saving, it was, yes, a blind cut that cost, and it can still cost, very expensive to the health of the Portuguese. It was expensive because, a year ago, the emergency services went into failure and the hospitalization did not respond to the search. It continues to be expensive today because there are several hospitals within their capabilities because, in the last four years, the previous government has led to a bleeding of professionals and a chronic underfunding of the National Health Service. It was very expensive because a patient with a rupture of aneurysm died for a weekend due to lack of medical care. Austerity has cost a lot of money all over the country! It was very expensive in the Algarve, where the lack of specialists, in particular in anesthesia and orthopaedics, causes the operations considered urgent to take place for weeks. It was very expensive at the Down Vouga Hospital Center, where the waiting list for hematology becomes two years and where there is a real ambulance corridor between Aveiro and Coimbra due to lack of specialists. It was very expensive in the country because the payment of the transport of patients made access to health very difficult for all people. It cost expensive throughout the country, in all districts, in all municipalities, one by one. But we're not here to hide this reality, we're here to change it, so we propose, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to remove all existing needs in the National Health Service, which is immediately acting on these failures, with priority for those who make it impossible to respond in urgent cases. That is how we want this to happen. We do not want to hide reality, but we want to improve it consecutively. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u72	Mr Simão Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss two initiatives in this House, one of the PCP and one of the Left Block, in which the Government is essentially recommended to identify the impact on cuts in the national health system as well as raising the needs of this same public health system. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the former Government has never denied that the crisis in which the Socialist Party plunged the country in 2011 affected the National Health Service; on the contrary. however, Mr. Members, in our view, it is fallacious, not to say worse, to say that the cuts to which this crisis has forced were blind cuts. It is a lie that, so often, left-wing demagogy likes to ride in public opinion. [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u74	In fact, the left parties forget that two-thirds of the expenditure that was reduced in the National Health Service were in the area of the pharmaceutical industry, pharmacy, wholesalers, devices, while, in parallel, there was a significant decrease, by about 30 %, of the price of the medicine. The left parties, with their demagogy, forget that the moderate rates had to be increased, as has already been mentioned, in view of the bankruptcy in which we found the country in 2011 — the same bankruptcy that was brought here by the Socialist Party — but that, despite this, these same moderate rates never reached, even 3% of the expenditure of the SNS, and the previous government in turn also increased the number of moderate tax exemptions to more than 70 %. But these cuts, particularly in the Public Administration and in the public service, which were, in fact, transversal, were already being removed in a gradual manner and, I repeat, also in a safe way. I hope that time will not prove otherwise! We know, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the extreme left, debts are not to be paid. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u75	In fact, for the CFP, as I said in the Health Commission, the policy of calote is the policy to be followed by the Portuguese State in health debts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u76	We also know that for the Socialist Party, perhaps, the debts are even to pay, or perhaps to be managed, or to pay a little..., a little at a time! But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PSD, debts are to be paid, because sooner or later, if they are not paid, they will have to be the users of the SNS who have to do or face a national health system near technical bankruptcy. By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these initiatives well demonstrate the modus operandi of the Portuguese extreme left. In fact, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as the PCP and the Left Block want to be taken seriously when they propose an evaluation of this nature, but they would never, ever, accept an evaluation made by an independent entity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u77	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u78	Mr President, in conclusion, I would just like to say the following: no, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PCP and the Left Block, the PSD will not be able to follow an initiative with such undoing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u79	What a surprise!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u80	...that, in fact, is no use than to make a cheap left theater with the health of Portuguese in our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u81	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Again, we are discussing the health of Portuguese. As a central issue for us, we believe that this debate has to be done, as we said yesterday, seriously, with rigour and objectivity. For us, it is central—and we do not allow anyone to doubt—that there is a good functioning of the National Health Service and we reaffirm what we said yesterday: a indebted SNS as we received in 2011, captured by suppliers, will never ensure the maintenance of the cohesion and social state that you so much proclaim. It is true that we had to make choices, under the penalty of the SNS to finish. We remember that the main cuts—and even we find it strange that the gentlemen of these cuts do not speak—were made in the area of medicine and devices, with savings in the order of the 320 million euros that allowed significant savings for the Portuguese. That's good spending, good spending management. Still, in a scenario of budget cuts constraints, it is factual, Mr. Members, it is not fiction, which has achieved a set of positive results, which can be attributed only by bad faith or ignorance to cuts, destruction or dismantling.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u83	It's like a deck of cards!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u84	You have to get used to not having two weights and two measures: they value the facts that give you skill and hide and do not value those that are part of reality. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It must be said that, in a climate of restrictions, we have strengthened the supply of hospital health care. They cannot deny that between June 2011 and the end of 2014 a new hospital unit was opened, almost every 6 months: in Loures, in Lamego, in Amarante, in Vila Franca de Xira, the Center for Rehabilitation of the North, the Hospital of Guarda and the Centro Materno-Infantil do Norte. This is factual! We strengthened the number of SNS professionals. Since 2011, approximately 20 contests have been opened for doctors and nurses, with more than 6000 vacancies, with a view to hiring about 7000 doctors and over 4500 nurses. This is factual, it's not fiction or propaganda! in this same climate of cuts and constraints, it should be remembered that there was a growth of 5% in users of primary health care medical consultations and an increase of 6% in the first hospital consultations. Why do they persist in ignoring this data? Why do they persist in ignoring that there are more Portuguese with the exemption of moderate rates, more than 6 million Portuguese, a number greater than what happened in 2011? It is true that in 2014, compared to 2011, there was a 20 % reinforcement of outpatient surgery, allowing the reduction of hospital admissions. Where is he, gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen, your objectivity, your rigour, your seriousness?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u85	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u86	I shall conclude, Mr President. This isn't propaganda! There are certainly prospects for improvement, there will always be, as we have already said. What can't be repeated, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an old recipe: increasing debt with the spectrum of bankruptcy and a new ransom, which no one wants. I hope you will accompany us in this old recipe, which we do not want. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u87	Mr António Sales spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The identification and signification of the consequences of the cuts produced by the previous Government, PSD / CDS, in the National Health Service only confirm a reality already known and felt by the population, who in their day-to-day faces serious difficulties, resulting from the policies then instituted. During the troic period, there was a very intense worsening of the vast majority of socio-economic indicators. Between 2011 and 2014, the country experienced a degradation of social determinants, the result of blind cuts that led to impoverishment, unemployment, cuts in social benefits and public services budgets.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u90	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a different analysis than the conventional one. The Global Welfare Index indicator continued to grow by 2011 — about 11 % —, the year in which it reached its maximum value, having fallen, in the following three years, about 1, 5 %, the index assessing the material living conditions decreased by 13 %, six times more compared to the pre-troic period and the index assessing the quality of life decreased by 4 % in the troic period — INE data. In six of the 10 domains that make up the respective indices, there are very high declines in some cases. The areas assessing economic well-being, economic vulnerability, health, life-to-work balance, social relations and well-being, which had grown 12 % in the pre-troop period, fell by 2 % in the troika period. in the period of implementation of the adjustment programme, everyone, I repeat, Mrs. Members, all indicators have worsened, except that of mortality, which, despite increasing numbers, has maintained the same growth in the rate. The number of births decreased by 20 %; the actual growth rate of the population 0, 6 %; the aging rate decreases by 9, 5 %; the synthetic fertility index 14 %; the infant mortality rate 0, 4 %; the neonatal mortality rate 0, 2 %. In 2014, it was the year in which infant, fetal and neonatal mortality rates experienced the most negative results ever. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, in 2015 almost 40 % of Portuguese were unable to cope with the health expenses of their family. One in five Portuguese stopped going to the doctor for economic and financial reasons. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u91	That's not true! We want dice!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u92	in a period when the degradation of socio-economic determinants was evidence, Mr. Members, it would have been very important if the implementation of health policies had responded to increased needs. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u93	This did not only happen, as the system did not respond and potentiated the worsening of the situation: falls in number of hospital beds; falls of 2, 9 % in hospital admissions; falls of 3, 3 % in medical-surgical emergencies; falls of 10 % in complementary means of diagnosis. in the last two years, there has been a decrease of 4, 8% in SNS services due to increased moderate rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u94	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u95	To conclude, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the problem is that the consequence of these policies and cuts has not yet occurred, because the effect is not immediate. This means that sooner or later, the proper consequences will appear, because the mirror effect on health is a different and different effect and, therefore, has not really been reflected in the indicators. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u96	It is therefore an imperative to change the course in order that the sooner we reverse the path we will return to the right direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u97	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u98	I conclude now, Mr President. This trajectory of reversal, Mr. Members, it imposes a national consensus strategy, in addition to the political forces represented in this House. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u99	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if we work together we can guarantee the Portuguese hope of the new time, a time of trust, a time of values of always, an SNS in which the Portuguese can believe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u100	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of this debate it is clear what was the intervention and action of the PSD and the CDS-PP over the past four years, which was clearly to ignore the difficulties that people felt in access to health care in the National Health Service. PSD and CDS say they will vote against this initiative. This we can understand because, in fact, they fear that the lifting of the consequences of PSD and CDS-PP policy in the National Health Service will highlight those that were their political options.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u103	More: they fear that the lifting of these consequences will highlight the injustices that were committed by the PSD and CDS-PP and show that it is possible and desirable—and we will certainly work for this—to reverse all unfair and harmful measures for the National Health Service. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the time to turn the page into the National Health Service. It is necessary and necessary to strengthen the human, material and financial resources so that the response to populations is made in good time and in good quality. It is possible, it is desirable and that is why the CFP will work, to strengthen the public response, to strengthen the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u104	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u105	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u106	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u107	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u108	Mr President, only to request the Socialist Party's bench, in particular Mr António Sales, to distribute to all the banks of this House the studies that underpin the data mentioned here during its intervention. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u109	Mr.António Sales will do this if he understands it, as it is obvious. Mrs. Members, the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 58 and 64 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), moving to point 3 of our agenda, we will begin the joint assessment of draft resolutions 47 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Students of artistic education who are impaired in access to higher education without pedagogical or curricular justification ( BE ), 107 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by valuing continuous evaluation in the pedagogical process and in the system of access to higher education, by non-discrimination of students of specialized artistic education ( CFP ) and 112 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government evaluate the model of access to higher education by specialized artistic students in order to ensure equal opportunities for all students ( PS ). To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The former Government has created problems that were previously non-existent. To access higher education, a student of artistic education is required to conduct national exams to Portuguese and Philosophy, in addition to the tests that have always been required by higher education schools. The method of calculating student grades under different arrangements, despite comparable routes, allows a regular school student with 10 values in exams to exceed an artistic student with 20 values in the same subjects. This aberrant pedagogical innovation, one more that we inherited from Nuno Crato, was initially interpreted by the schools as a failure of the legislator, but quickly, in response to a request, the former Government left no doubt in saying that the rules wanted to correct the hypothetical privilege of artistic and specialized students. He then said the Ministry of Education of the Height, and I quote: «It should be remembered that some of the rules set out in Decree-Law No 139 / 2012 of 5 July arise in part of the previous situation of clear privilege of students of professional and artistic specialized courses. Do not keep on seeking. ” In short: the previous guardianship considered artistic education a travesty door of access to higher education and, therefore, must now pay for the apparent facilitation. The Block today brings to Parliament one more of the measures necessary to restore normality and stability in school and in artistic education and we cannot continue to accept that the right choice should be on the wall or on the other side. Today, even if in recent years other decisions of Nuno Crato have brought into question the decree itself, it must be said that prejudice is bad counsel of a government, whatever it is. The logic of the past was that, the present is another. To suspend the harmful decisions created by the previous Government and to restore the previously in force evaluation regime is today a duty and a respect that we owe to these schools. Today we need to consider the evaluation model and we cannot continue to accept that artistic education in Portugal is considered a privilege; it is a right! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Gabriela Canavilhas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u111	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u112	Mr. President and Mr. Members: First and foremost on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I would like to welcome the struggle and persistence that students of the Soares dos Reis School, in Porto, and of the António Arroio School, in Lisbon, have worked throughout the last year mainly to draw the attention of this Parliament to this issue. And from this struggle even by the previous government, the adjustment of some aspects, which did not fully respond to the problems raised by the students but also showed the fairness of this struggle. What students of specialized artistic education, especially visual arts, plastic arts and audiovisual arts, are confronted with is a tremendous injustice, insofar as, by means of the secondaryization that the former Government made of specialized arts education, they ended up paying for this prejudice that existed in the government; that is, these students were confronted with a summary evaluation course that resulted in far more eliminations than those with which regular education students are confronted. On the national examination, the necessary appreciation of the continuous evaluation and the lowering of the role of the tests in the evaluation is known the position of the CFP. We understand that it must be the course of each student who must be evaluated, it must be his experience, his pedagogical and educational journey and not only the way in which he answers a set of questions within a given period of time. But knowing this position, this cannot harm the concrete question that we are dealing with, i.e. that students of specialized arts education cannot be put before an examination, which, being equal to the other tests, has a much greater weight in their evaluation and, as such, harms them. For this reason, the CFP proposes that the Government take the necessary legislative and regulatory measures for students of these schools to be considered as students candidates for the summative and non-external evaluation, as is currently the case under the options of the previous government, perfectly adjusted, and also for the artistic fitness test that these students, by law, have to carry out, so far as this represents not only in the more concrete evaluation of their pedagogical experience but also in the effort that these students make over several years to be able to respond to the artistic fitness test. These are the proposals that we make, and we believe that they respond essentially, and we welcome all those that have been presented, in particular the BE and the PS, to also meet this same objective. [[Applause from the PCP and the PS Deputy Gabriela Canavilhas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u113	To present the PS draft resolution, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the diplomas presented here by the PCP and the Left Block and point out that, in so little time, it is the second time that we bring artistic education to this House, which shows the interest that the parties on this side of the Chamber have in this matter and also points out how much artistic education has been abused during the previous government, so that all these measures are aimed at retraining and retraining artistic education on a path of appreciation to the contrary of what has happened in the previous government. This is also important within the framework of the fundamental principles of equal treatment and equal opportunities to which all Portuguese are entitled. Equality and social justice are a priority of this government in all areas. To meet this plan, we will not hesitate to revert, remove, re-evaluate and re-regislate what is necessary to promote equity and social justice across all areas. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u115	The draft resolutions that are currently under discussion also express another change, a new political vision: they recognize to specialized artistic education the status of peer equality—of equal importance to any other course, whether any other curriculum or professional option— which clearly distinguishes a left-wing position and a socialist government, in view of the reducing mentality of the government that preceded us. [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u116	Artistic education specialized in Portugal... [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Pimão.]] There is no doubt, Mr President, that the examples are immense! As I said, artistic education specialized in Portugal has come to assert itself as one of the training areas that we can take pride in and have revealed, moreover, highly productive and even competitive results at the international level. No student from any area can be harmed by his or her options, by his or her choices or vocations, either in the aspects of Mathematics, Portuguese, Philosophy or in his or her artistic vocations. But, in fact, as has been said here, there are still clear conditions of inequality between the artistic students and the rest, these unjust and unacceptable conditions, many of which are poured out in Decree-Law No 139/2012, that the PS recommends that it be reviewed globally—in fact, in the previous legislature we also managed to remove the mandatory discipline of Philosophy, which was absolutely unacceptable and which had been determined by the previous government. The Socialist Government programme recognises these problems and has already identified them: the need to ensure permeability between courses and the weight of external evaluation, which, in fact, overlaps with continuous evaluation. They are indeed assumed to be included in the draft resolution of the CFP and that they coincide with the Government Programme, including the equalization of these students inside rather than outsiders, as they are currently considered. And in this sense we do not fail to agree with the concerns of the CFP. The recommendations of BE also have our agreement and we believe that they should be included in a broader framework of a comprehensive review of legislation on access to higher education for artistic students. Only a careful and profound review of Decree-Law No 139 / 2012 of the previous Government may produce a new approach in which, finally, justice and equality in access to higher education is valued, as well as a condiment of specialized artistic education. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u117	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u118	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, following the interest expressed by the parties on this side of the Hemicycle in specialized artistic education, the matter brought today in these three draft resolutions concerns a fundamental question, which is this: what role do we want to have in the examinations of access to higher education? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to the specific evidence for each specific course, for the CDS, these examinations should be used to validate a set of knowledge that if they want to carry out a higher course by any student, under penalty of not doing it a priori, we will also have failures or failures at these levels of teaching. The latest legislative amendment, which these draft resolutions call into question, sought precisely to establish this principle in a logic of equity, correcting a negative discrimination that the system would prevent students from studying science-humanistic courses versus those of artistic or professional courses. They say, "Mrs." undersigned Members of this draft resolution which has created a new negative discrimination. We do not agree because: first, no student is deprived of access to higher education, regardless of their previous choice to have been a scientific-humanistic course, or an artistic course, or a professional course; second, during these courses these students have differentiated curricula and the certification of completion of the secondary school stems exclusively from the success that they have obtained, according to different and adjusted evaluation instruments; and third, at the time of application for higher education the tests and their respective weights are determined today considering both the importance of common cross-versal competences, as I mentioned above, both the specific competences for each course, and also the different courses of students. Reflecting this reality, today all students of the scientific-humanistic courses have to perform four exams and students of artistic or professional education have to perform two, obviously with a differentiated weighting scheme, but which preserves equity among all and not only among some. Mrs. Members, the position of the CDS in this area is clear : we defend the principle of the existence of cross-border competences required to all students from all courses at the time they apply for higher education ; we defend the principle of equity in access to higher education by treating differently what is different, but without ever preventing paths and always seeking not to create, or restore, injustices to each legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u120	We have an opening position to improve this current model, also opening the discussion to higher education institutions in the exercise of their autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, any prejudice is, in fact, bad counsellor of a government and, therefore, what we cannot accept is to make a rough board of the path already done, repossessing injustices that have already been corrected and permanently and drastically altering the rules of the game [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u121	Mr Pedro Pimpão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are again discussing the topic of artistic education specialized in Portugal, and it is always a good opportunity to highlight the wealth and added value of this educational offer in our teaching system, either in the development of the critical spirit of our students, or in the development of the creativity of these same students. The truth is that if we have been discussing the need to stabilize the financing of artistic education 15 days ago, we are discussing a matter of even greater importance and that is related to access to higher education for these same students. In view of this situation, the central issue and whether it should be clarified at the beginning of this debate is whether or not students of specialized artistic education should continue their studies for higher education. What do we think? Our opinion is 'yes'! Of course I do! It is important to create these conditions so that students can continue their studies in higher education and it is important to normalize this model. For what? Oh, my God! So that by normalizing this model we can encourage young people to pursue higher education studies until it is a collective strategy within the framework of the Europe 2020 strategy, we will increase the number of young people from 30 to 34 years by 2020, and here too can make an important contribution, following this strategy. however, in this issue, the government has already come to the public— last week a news report came out in a newspaper today—saying that it was evaluating, analyzing, the models of secondary education, with the exception of scientific-humanistic courses. It was important to know what the objectives of this analysis are, but here we will be to follow the evolution and the results of this analysis. As for the draft resolutions presented here, we cannot agree with the one of the Left Block, because this project tells us - we have to go back, that the path that has been taken should be left out, and we do not agree with that backwardness. Therefore, we do not align with this project, which is contradictory to that of the Socialist Party and the PCP, which are more moderate, because they present proposals to improve the model of access to higher education, and we can analyze some of them, because, not agreeing with some CFP measures, we agree with the need to evaluate the model. Both propose, PCP and the Socialist Party, for example, that the artistic fitness test have effects on access to higher education. It would be important to examine how this evidence could be weighed for the purposes of access to higher education — we would like to hear your opinion, if the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we'd like to be given. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u123	What is contradictory is to see in this seat Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas say that she agrees with the project of the Left Block — which is contradictory to that of the Socialist Party — and then to say that artistic education was abused, when, in the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, it is recognized that the amendments of the previous Government in March 2015 were positive. So it's a bit contradictory to say something in the draft resolution and then say something else in this House. however, whatever the way forward, it is important to create the necessary conditions so that in Portugal students, young people, when applying for specialized artistic education courses can, under conditions of equality and equity, continue their studies for higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u124	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u125	I will finish, Mr. President. This is because, in doing so, they are contributing to their personal appreciation, they are contributing to the dignity of this educational offer and they are contributing to the increase in the qualification of young Portuguese people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u126	For a second speech, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are against exactly the logic that it is necessary to normalize everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u128	Don't! Normalize the model!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u129	If artistic education has strictly different rules, different disciplines, different ways of learning, then we need to know why it also has to have different rules of access to higher education. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa said here that, for example, it is necessary to take tests, and, in the case of artistic teaching, philosophy or Portuguese, to be sure that students know Philosophy or Portuguese, that is, to be sure that they are on equal footing with everyone else.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u130	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u131	Mrs. Member, and we have already had many discussions about exams in this new legislation, I wonder if the three years of Portuguese or the two years of Philosophy that students of artistic education have, and in which they have evaluations, count for nothing. That is, the notes that students of artistic education have Portuguese and philosophy count for nothing? Oh, my God! We don't take any illusions of that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u132	Count!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u133	On the proof of artistic fitness, he didn't even talk about it,... [[You didn't hear!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u134	... preferred to speak of the examinations that the previous right-wing government forced students of artistic education. It has forgotten to say that specialized artistic education is really different, because it has, for example, a discipline of Project and Technologies where a proof of artistic fitness develops, that, yes, is called into question with the new rules and new accounts of access to higher education by these students of artistic education. Finally, the various draft resolutions are not, contrary to what has been said here, antagonistic, they can be conciliable,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u135	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u136	...there is that will. There is a desire, first of all, to question what was done in the previous Parliament, and the Left Block has total openness to discuss all the models. Now, we cannot accept that you come here to claim that the backwardness is done at this moment. [[Yes, yes!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u137	No, the backwardness has been made in the last four years of government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u138	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u139	... that is the backwardness, indeed, admitted by all schools, who have come several times to claim these new rules. That, yes, was a step backwards, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u140	Also for a second speech, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Again, we learned that for the CDS this malt of artistic education has nothing to do with higher education and the more final tests we can put on them, so that they can stumble on the barriers, better. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But we also note that, following the election results, we have a PSD that recognizes the mistakes of the Nuno Crato Ministry of Education and a CDS that clings to these errors without recognizing them. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS has tried to bring the debate to the issue on examinations and whether or not they exist — on this point, the position of the CFP is known. But what we are dealing with at this particular moment is the equalization and introduction of criteria that are fair to all students, whether they are from the regular pathways of teaching, scientific and humanistic, whether they are from the paths of specialized art education, which, for all purposes, confer exactly the same qualification and must have exactly equal degrees of dignity before the State and the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u143	Therefore, the school course conducted in an educational institution, in a specialized art school and the other conducted in another regular school should have, before the community and the evaluation systems, exactly the same requirement and the same dignity...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u145	... and must correspond exactly to the same evidence and have the same weight in the evaluation. Therefore, this replacement of justice has nothing to do with ending or creating tests. We are dealing with the elimination of injustice in this particular case and today we have conditions for that injustice to be effectively eliminated.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u146	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u147	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why I welcome those students, especially from the Arroio and Soares schools of the Kings, who have brought this problem to Parliament, by the voice of parliamentary groups it is true, but also by contacts, making vows, in addition to those of good success in their examinations to higher education, that they do not forget this powerful lesson that life gives them, which is the one of whom goes to the struggle not always wins, but who does not go to the struggle always loses! [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u148	For a short intervention, necessarily short, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u149	Mr President, my speech will be very short, it is only to clarify a misconception by Mr Pedro Pimpão, who, by ignorance, claimed some incompatibility in my statement. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Pimão.]] No, no! It turns out that Mr. Deputies do not know that the improvement of the law in the past legislature resulted from a draft resolution of the Socialist Party, based on a great civil movement that moved all the music schools in the country,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u150	...which almost paralyzed the country's music schools and forced Mr. Minister to make the change to withdraw philosophy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u151	But that's earlier! That's earlier!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u152	This was due to the oppositions of height and civil society, not to its government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u153	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, having concluded the debate on draft resolutions 47, 107 and 112 / XIII ( 1 ). a ), we will generally enter into the assessment of the projects of lein.o 79 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Maintenance of the Fundão Hospital under public management ( PCP ), 85 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Reversion of the Hospital Conde de São Bento, in Santo Tirso, to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ), 78 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Reversion of the District Hospital of São João da Madeira to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ) and 113 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Maintenance of the process of the return of hospitals to the Mercy ( CDS-PP ), together with petition No 508 / XII ( 4. a ) — Presented by Ricardo da Silva Pinto and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to reopen the emergency service of the Hospital de São João da Madeira and its continuity in the National Health Service, under the administration of the State, and with draft resolutions 92 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the Fund's Hospital and the necessary investment in it ( BE ), 94 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the hospital in Santo Tirso as well as the necessary investment in the hospital ( BE ), 95 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the Hospital de São João da Madeira, as well as the necessary investment in it ( BE ), 103 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by maintaining the Fundão Hospital ( integral part of the CHCB) in the National Health Service ( PS ), 108 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the process of the return of hospitals to Mercy ( PSD ), 109 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By public management and at the service of the populations of the hospital in Santo Tirso and by the necessary improvement in human and material resources ( The Greens) and 110 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By public management and at the service of the populations of the Hospital de São João da Madeira and by the necessary improvement in human and material resources (The Greens). Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the time available is set out in the panel, in order to precede the presentation of initiatives, Mr Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : During the governance of the PSD and CDS, a reorganization of the hospital network of an economical matrix was carried out, based on the closure of valences, the disqualification of services, aiming to reduce and concentrate services and to cut into public investment with consequent loss of response capacity of the National Health Service ( SNS ). And one of the instruments chosen by the PSD and CDS to attack the SNS was the diploma that advocates the transfer of public hospitals to the Mercy, an attack that they intend to maintain today, as seen by the initiatives brought here. A diploma which provides for 10-year agreements, without knowing what will happen next, and which determines the reduction of charges with the SNS in at least 25 %, which will necessarily have an impact on quality and accessibility to health care, as well as on the conditions of health care professionals. It must not be forgotten that the State pays rent to the Mercy by using the buildings, and it was the State that, with public resources, acquired the hospital equipment, as well as carried out remodeling and recovery interventions in the buildings. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The hospital of Santo Tirso serves more than 110 000 people of Santo Tirso and Trofa and, moreover, some border parishes, Ferreira and Family Peace. during the last decade, it was emptied of services and valences, such as maternity and medical-surgical emergencies, strongly damaging the population. In addition to the de-investment and degradation of services, PSD and CDS sought to remove this hospital from public management, in a decision taken by professionals, their representative structures and the population. And the consequences are clear, when they come to us, from health professionals, feelings of concern about their future and their labor rights. But the devastation does not stay around here and extends, for example, to the Hospital of São João da Madeira. This serves the population of São João da Madeira, Oliveira de Azemés and Vale de Cambra and has been gradually emptied of its main valences: from the end of the emergency service to the disappearance of a set of specialities, which meant the loss of their professionals and equipment. These closures merited the protest of the population, as also merited the delivery of this hospital to Mercy, which is an example of the petition under consideration today and whose petitioners take advantage of to greet, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u155	The same path was traced to the Fundão Hospital — a pioneering hospital in creating a unit of pain, a service of excellence, which still provides high quality health care today. Like the reality felt in the rest of the country, and the result of the disinvestment in the SNS, the Fundão Hospital was also being progressively emptied, especially with the closure of the emergencies and the concentration of surgeries in the Pêro da Covilhã Hospital. These health professionals were also concerned about the future of this hospital unit and its jobs, and some, even, asked for transfer, in the face of existing uncertainty. This hospital has an important role in the formation of new doctors and therefore the implications for the teaching of medicine, resulting from the delivery to Mercy, cannot be ignored.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u156	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The transfer of hospitals to Mercy is a step of fragility of the SNS. The solution that defends users, professionals and the National Health Service is the maintenance of these hospitals in the public sphere. That's what we propose here! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u158	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow-CL-me, given that a petition is also under discussion, which begins by greeting the more than 9,000 petitioners who have decided to demand their hospital and the public management of their hospital in São João da Madeira. The former PSD/CDS government was effectively motivated by an ideological program, ideological prejudices and a hidden business agenda. For this reason, he tried to destroy the public service to feed the private; therefore, he closed services and valences in public health, to guarantee the market to the private; therefore, he gave up public equipment to deliver them from tray to the private; therefore, he subfinanced the National Health Service, but increased transfers to public-private partnerships (PPP), to the Mercy, to the private. We all remember how the Center of Rehabilitation of the North handed over to Santa Casa da Misericórdia, without study, without public contest, nothing to sustain such a decision. And we all remember the fear with which he went, a few weeks from losing his mandate, a few weeks from the elections, signing agreements with the Mercy, to deliver public hospitals to private management. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] We are also reminded that it was a government dismissed by this Assembly of the Republic that approved such agreements, such was the rush to close the business they had in their wallets. That was in a hurry! For this reason, for the PSD and CDS, in the context of their interests, it was never at stake in the public interest when it made such decisions. For example, the delivery agreement of the Hospital de São João da Madeira, which provided for: loss of valences, such as pain consultation; loss of the day hospital of psychiatry; reduction of outpatient surgery by 25 %; reduction by 25 % of the consultations carried out there. It was not the public interest that guided you, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS! Therefore, the transfer process needs to be reversed, the privatisation process needs to be reversed. And to reverse this process is not just cancel the transfer, it is to reverse all the negative effects that the process has had in these hospitals. Let's look at the Fundão Hospital. in this hospital, investments were postponed – investments that even included the strategic plan of the Cova da Beira Hospital Center – were postponed the requalification of the building and the installation of new valences. in the hospital of Santo Tirso, the instability caused by the transfer process led to the loss of professionals, medical specialists, mainly internalists, launching chaos in internal medicine and emergencies. at the District Hospital of São João da Madeira, a valence has already been relocated, which was the consultation of pain. The hospital's already lost a valence...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u160	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u161	... because of the transfer process you started, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS. Therefore, the Left Block proposes the public management of these hospitals, but that there is also the necessary investment to reverse all the negative consequences that occurred there. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u162	The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has entered two Members for the presentation of their initiatives during the time available, so it has the floor, firstly, Mrs Hortense Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u163	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, today we have a number of initiatives, from several parliamentary groups, including a petition, with more than 9200 signatures, whose petitioners welcome, on the basis of a theme: the defense of the provision of health care to the people and the understanding of the best way to do it. There are very different views: one, which devalues the National Health Service and emptied these units and, another, which affirms the need for strengthening these hospitals and the National Health Service — is our vision. The PS has long shown that there is no ideological prejudice about the social sector. The PS has always valued this sector, whether represented by IPSS, Mutuality or Mercy, which recognizes as partners in the pursuit of social inclusion policies. [[PSD protests.]] An example of this was the creation of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care (RNCCI), which had the participation of various Mercy and elected as its privileged partner in the management of these equipment. however, we believe that the State can only weigh this type of decision when it is clearly sustained, justified and subject to a broad and transparent debate on what is at stake, with all the actors involved, from the outset with the authorities and populations. And this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was exactly what was not done in the initiatives we have today appreciated and that relate to very concrete situations: the transfer of the management of three hospitals from the sphere of the SNS to the Mercy — Santo Tirso, São João da Madeira and Fundão — which have come to be devalued and to lose valences. regarding the specific case of Fundão Hospital, the PS presents a draft resolution that aims to maintain this unit, which is an integral part of the Cova da Beira Hospital Center and which is linked to the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Beira Interior, in the National Health Service. In fact, it makes no sense the opposite hypothesis, which is part of the CDS project and which even refers to the continuity of the transition from management to the Santa Casa de Misericórdia do Fundão. This would mean even the dismantling of the Cova da Beira Hospital Center, instead of its reinforcement, defended as a means of better care for the affected populations. I remember that the process took place during the last government, through silence, to the hidden populations. And also the camera presidents, either of Covilhã or of Fundão, protested against. Therefore, our position is to maintain the management of these hospitals in the sphere of the SNS, in the public sphere. This is what the PS and the government have done, with decisions taken, of reversal, in two of the cases, and of non-continuation of the case, in the case of the Fundão Hospital. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u164	You now have the floor to Mrs. Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will be very brief, although we are examining in 3 minutes four bills, seven draft resolutions and one petition. I begin by renewing the compliments to the petitioners of São João da Madeira, who are over 9000 and here have many representatives. I would like to say quickly that the transfer of SNS hospitals to Mercy has always had, in the opinion of the PS, three conditions: the need to ensure that the reduction of 25% in the cut-off of expenditure does not affect the services provided to the community, the involvement of local local authorities and their agreement and the safeguarding of the interests of employees. What happened, in these cases, was that this did not happen. And easier and faster than being here discussing the strategy is to say what the PS thinks, because the government has hardly taken possession, so on January 11, decided this issue, keeping the hospitals of São João da Madeira and Santo Tirso in the public sphere, in the SNS. This is the decision which the Government considers to be better caring for the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u166	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u167	Who saw them and who saw them!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u168	Therefore, we follow the bills of law and resolution presented by the left benches, but our decision is made: the Government of the Socialist Party defends the maintenance of these two equipments, of São João da Madeira and of Santo Tirso, in the public sphere, in the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u169	Attention to the time available, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u170	I shall be brief, Mr President. I would like to challenge Mrs Andreia Neto, who, being elected by the Port, is calling herself a defender of the interests of the tyrosens, saying how, having the Assembly and the Municipal Chamber of Santo Tirso and its electors and municips expressed their position overwhelmingly against this transfer, is able to go to a meeting with those responsible to say that after all, the hospital services were weakened and that now we need a new investment by this government to strengthen them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u171	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u172	It makes no sense and perhaps that is why you did not go to the Commission yesterday, but today you have the opportunity to defend those who say you defend when you intervene in public. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u173	For an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the recognition of the invaluable role of the Mercy in the defence of public health and in the preservation of the well-being of the populations, the former Government — a true coalition government —... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u175	They already have separate projects!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u176	... established a better adequacy of health responses to populations, in an assumed project of real strategy for the development of cooperation with the social sector. in this sense, Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, have established cooperation agreements with regional health and mercy administrations in order to ensure an improvement in the accessibility of the population to health care, as well as an effective reduction of charges over 25 %, in relation to the alternative provision of services by the public sector. The former government, of genuine coalition, promoted the Commitment of Cooperation for the Social and Solidarity Sector, which determined in 2014 the return of hospitals to the Mercy. The PSD considered and considered that the return of hospitals to Mercy translates into important health gains for populations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u177	People don't think so!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u178	... in particular in improving the quality and access of populations to the provision of health care, as well as, for example, in the increase in the health services available to the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u179	Like the orthopedic, it's closed!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u180	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this commitment, of course, assumed and consequent, never deserved a genuine, equally clear and coherent position by the Socialist Party! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u181	On the other hand, those who do not remember the discussions that in the previous Parliament we held in this Chamber, brought by the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens - the coherence is praised - that they already demanded the reversal of this model, but at that time the other Socialist Party never voted favourably. But not only! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Where to, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, has this fury of reversion of hospitals to the public sphere? We are not even in the context of the fable « given word, honest word», because this measure does not appear in the Government's programme! [[PS and PCP protests.]] And, surprisingly, or perhaps not, the Socialist Party is not fulfilling its Government Programme, but is implementing the CFP electoral programme. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]] Moreover, this reversal is not even reflected in the famous 'joint positions' that the Socialist Party has signed! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we have lived very strange times: we have come to the point where the « given word », which was given by the CFP, has become the « honored word », now signed by the Socialist Party, which well shows the lack of coherence and consistency of this government! [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u182	But, as if it were not enough, this decision to cancel the agreements, this reversal of the delivery of hospitals to mercy, was taken upon the knee unilaterally and without listening to anyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u183	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u184	It was based on « founded doubts about the effective defense of the public interest ». [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] We ask: but what doubts, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen? What government is this, which cancels first and then studies? Oh, my God! [[All right!]] [[Protests from PS Deputy Luísa Salgueiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u185	After all, we have a minister who decides with doubts! And speaking of doubts, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, will the Government clearly say what costs are involved in this reversal? Will the Minister guarantee the populations of Santo Tirso and São João da Madeira that the same valences and their extension are ensured through the National Health Service? Oh, my God! [[All right!]] [[Protests from PS, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u186	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD always responds with responsibility and consistency, and it is in the name of responsibility and coherence that we are here to reaffirm our conviction that this speedy reversal undermines the institutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u187	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u188	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, this speedy downturn harms institutions and users. As usual, those who will pay for the errors of the Socialist Party will be the users of these councils and the Portuguese. [[Protests from PS Deputy Luísa Salgueiro.]] The PSD and the populations of Santo Tirso and São João da Madeira will no longer forget this attack to their legitimate interests and rights to the provision of dignified, extended and close health services. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u189	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With our bill, the CDS seeks to maintain an act of greater justice that the previous government has sought to achieve: return to mercy the hospitals that had been nationalized. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u191	The reversal intended by the current government and defended here by several parliamentary benches is wrong, inefficient and antiquated. [[PCP protests.]] It's wrong, because hospitals have always been merciful. It was the state that stole them when it nationalized them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u192	Exactly! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u193	It is inefficient, because the health expenses of mercy have a rule, Mrs and Mrs. Members, globally proven: more services are done to patients at a more cost to the State itself. A rule which will certainly not be indifferent to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] Even because you gain in humanity what you save in bureaucracy. It is a totalizing decision of the State, i.e. an antiquated decision, because it ignores that, in the contractualization model, what is best done in Europe and in the world, with a social sector providing quality and faster health care, focused on the people and on the responses it presents. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the crucial point! These agreements provide for the improvement of the health responses of each of these units, i.e. the well-being of their populations. With this reversal, the answer doesn't improve. With this reversal, people's service doesn't improve. With public or private management, our priority, on CDS, is and will always be the service to people, with quality, with coverage and with speed. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u194	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens present today, for discussion, two legislative initiatives to ensure the public management of the Hospital de São João da Madeira and the Hospital de Santo Tirso. As it is known, by the ideological option of the previous PSD / CDS government, and on the way it chose to dismantle the SNS, the previous government tried to deliver these hospitals to the merciful,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... that is, he sought to disguise his purpose of privatizing hospitals, further weakening the National Health Service, and with great damage to the users, in this case to the populations of São João da Madeira and Santo Tirso. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] As it is public, the transfer of the Hospital de São João da Madeira to Mercy deserved the challenge and disagreement of health professionals and users, who, in fact, carried out several actions of protest and even dynamized the petition that today is also under discussion. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] And I take advantage, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, to greet the petitioners, especially those who are here today watching our work. The PSD now says that you are deciding without listening to the populations, but what is true is that, even with the clear and evident opposition of the populations,... [[It's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u196	... the previous government continued with the cooperation agreement with the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de São João da Madeira. Now, recently, the Ministry of Health has decided to cancel the passage from the hospital to the height of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia, considering, in our view well—it is also important that we speak about this! — there are doubts as to the effective defence of the public interest. The public interest must also be present in these decisions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u197	He's always there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u198	And, therefore, there are doubts, the agreement is canceled. This decision came to meet what The Greens defend because, in our perspective, only public management... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I know you are very concerned about fattening the private market, but we are not! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We are not obliged to follow your path! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The gentlemen. Members of the CDS are very upset about this...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u199	There's no discomfort!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u200	in the previous government, which was a coalition government, having beers, they invented themselves to attenuate them — they invented the post of Deputy Prime Minister to attenuate the beers; even it led them to believe that those who were in charge of the coalition were the gentlemen! This government which is in office, in which there are still no beers, at least for the time being, has decided to suspend the procedure, and in our view. [[CDS-PP protests.]] I understand that you guys are. Members of the CDS are so upset! After all, it was you who sent the previous government, even though they had a much smaller size in the coalition. With regard to the Hospital de Santo Tirso, they did exactly the same thing, that is, they did the right thing to the private... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...and passed the hospital to the mercy. And I would like to say again that it was with firm opposition from the local authorities, who even draw attention to the need to strengthen the means. [[Which ones?Oh, my ……]] [[Which ones?Oh, my ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u201	From Santo Tirso, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! Go to sleep! You want me to tell you everything? Oh, my God! Go to sleep! Therefore, although the process was annulled, because this decision, in fact, pleased the professionals, pleased the users and even received the applause of the local authority. The process of transfer from Hospital to Local Mercy came, in fact, to further reduce health professionals and material resources. Today, with the new composition of Parliament — today, at last, we have the right in the right place — it is necessary to look at people. And, looking at people, hospitals need to return to public management, including the Hospitals of St. John of Madeira, St. Tirso and the Fundão, because it is time to look at people and not just continue to fatten private markets. [[Which markets?!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u202	That is what you have done over four years! The passage, promoted by the previous government, from hospitals to mercy was an encapsulated privatization! [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u203	But does anyone have any questions about that? Oh, my God! It was an encapsulated privatization! And now Mr Nuno Magalhães says: "Ah! ...’. But am I giving you some news, sir? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u204	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u205	Mr. José Luís Ferreira, now we need to look at the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u206	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying: Mr Nuno Magalhães, if you are sleeping, do not blame The Greens for this fact, it is time to wake up! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u207	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two ways to analyze this matter: either we analyze it exclusively from the ideological point of view and we think that deciding whether to deliver a hospital to a social entity is an ideological issue—and we are completely furnished with what is the interest of the population— [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] ... or, then, we think about the interest of the population and we realize if, for people, it is best to provide more or less care, regardless of their property be public or private. Our choice is clearly the second. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u209	And I'm going to set an example of a practical case: in St John of Madeira, that Mr. Ladies and gentlemen have already spoken, many of you have never known or even been there — not everyone, as it is obvious! — What happens is that the one who removed the urgency was not mercy! [[Protests from PS, PCP and the Greens.]] What happens in São João da Madeira is that those who took the consultation of pain were not Mercy! Who was successively withdrawing capacity from the Hospital de São João da Madeira was the State, the National Health Service and the successive Governments of the Socialist Party! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u210	It is therefore worth noting who is actually responsible for what has happened. And it is enough to read the statement of the petition, signed by the Sanjoans, to realize that what they want, first, is urgency,... [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] It's not like the hospital's public again. First of all, they want the emergency! [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u211	And in the protocol established with Mercy was open the possibility of urgency reopening in São João da Madeira with Mercy! [[All right!]] [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u212	I ask the PS, the PCP and BE what is the guarantee they can give to Sanjoans today that, indeed, with your government, there will be once again urgency in São João da Madeira. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] And I wanted to tell you something, sirs. Members: last Sunday, there were elections in São João da Madeira, in which three parties applied and settled their entire campaign, spending rivers of money, betting all their votes on the reversal of the Hospital of São João da Madeira to the public sector. There were two parties who always said they believed in the Hospital's solution to be passed on to Mercy. It turns out that the two parties that defended this solution had the absolute majority that they had before and that the'management' clearly lost the elections! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] This is letting the people speak,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u213	I ask you to conclude, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u214	... put before the party interest the interest of the people and clearly achieve that more important than ideological differences is the voice of the people, which is much wiser than the voice of those who only want to defend their ideology. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u215	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To hear the voice of the people, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, I would like to read the petitions well.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u217	Exactly! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u218	The petition requires the maintenance of the Hospital de São João da Madeira integrated into the National Health Service and under the administration of the State. You've escaped this part! Open... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But he got away with something else, too. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u219	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u220	I can wait, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u221	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to understand that it is not necessary to prove that we are sleeping, we are all awake, but perhaps we should do a little more silence. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u222	I can wait, because I wanted Mr. João Pinho de Almeida to hear this part very well. The honourable Member does not even hear well, for example, an old hospital director, who was even from the PSD, who said: « Mercy has no competence to manage the hospital! You have no know-how to manage the hospital! You have no competence to put emergencies there! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Now, listen also to what the Provider of the Holy House of Mercy said! What was the goal? What was the objective, Mr. Deputies? It was opening the hospital to private business,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u223	... health subsystems, health insurance. The great bet of the Holy House of Mercy was the private business! [[Congratulations on the BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] And in this debate it was clear that the PSD and CDS-PP, if they could, insisted on what Mrs Andreia Neto called strategic vision. Now, we know what the strategic vision of PSD and CDS-PP for health over the past four years has been and we don't want any more. We don't want any more! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u224	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, in fact the voice of the people is not in the voice of the CDS, it is in the voice of that petition,... [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests]] ...the voice of the people is in the populations, the voice of the people is in the health professionals who reject this path. That's where the people's voice is, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. It is seen that the interventions of the PSD and the CDS-PP which have been made here today demonstrate something very clear: in fact, PSD and CDS-PP are against, but it is against the populations, against the health professionals, against the National Health Service and against the authorities themselves—it is impossible! — they also manifested themselves in opposition to this process of privatization of the National Health Service. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs Andreia Neto, what the previous government did was want to withdraw from the National Health Service to deliver to the private sector. That's what the previous government wanted to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u226	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u227	In fact, what bothers the PSD and the CDS-PP, and which is clear after these interventions, is the replacement of rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u228	What rights?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u229	And what we are discussing here today is the right to health, the universal and constitutional right to health, because health is not, and cannot be, a business. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-28.u230	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The meeting of tomorrow, 29 January, will be devoted to the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). that of the Rules of Procedure, which will have as its theme the modernisation of the State, will take place in accordance with the rules of procedure. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 52 minutes.]]
