ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. As you know, today is the last day of the debate, in the speciality of the State Budget for 2017 in plenary, but before we start this debate, I ask Secretary Pedro Alves to report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. The projects of lein.os 347 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Excluding the Judiciary Police and the Foreign and Border Service from the scope of the General Law on Public Works ( Fourth Amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 ) ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 348 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 50 / 2007 of 31 August by strengthening the legal framework for the handling of sports competitions ( PS ). Parliamentary opinion No 27 / XIII was also included in the Bureau ( 2 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 65 -A / 2016 of 25 October amending Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 of 11 August amended and republished by Decree-Law No 234 / 2012 of 30 October establishing the legal regime for teaching Portuguese abroad ( PCP ). The following draft resolutions were added: No 552 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create the conditions for ensuring the coexistence between safeguarding natural values in ZPE Mourão / Moura / Barrancos and the Moura / Barrancos site of the Natura 2000 Network and human activity, particularly agricultural activity ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 553 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Because of the disabsorption of the Aveiro River and the development of synergies with local structures, in particular with the port of Aveiro ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission; points 554 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that a cross-border environmental assessment be carried out on the construction of an individualized temporary warehouse in the Almaraz nuclear power plant ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission; points 555 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government open in 2017 an extraordinary course of the Centre for Judicial Studies for the formation of 100 new judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; and paragraphs 556 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Measures to support breeders whose animals were affected by bluetongue ( blue-tongue virus ) in the Medium Tejo ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Pedro Alves. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda includes the discussion of the rules, the voting of those rules and, finally, the closure of the debate of the State budget and its comprehensive final vote. Mrs. Members, continuing the discussion, in the specialty, of Bill No 37 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the State Budget for 2017, we will begin by discussing and voting the rules avoked by the plenary. Standards were advocated by the PCP, the Greens, the NAP, the CDS-PP, the PS, the Left Block and the PSD. To initiate the debate on these lawyers, Mr Paulino Ascenção, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, with this Budget, the Republic contributes with support to Madeira to once again cover the failures of the regional government. The regional government and the PSD interpret autonomy in a logic of maximising — millions! — Lisbon, not for the benefit of the people, but for the benefit of some, a sect, which survives, which enriches the shadow of budget and debt, because the population has again faced poverty, unemployment, emigration. These are the great successes of 40 years of autonomy. The fault of the failures is always from Lisbon. If there is no hospital, if there is no holiday, if there is no freighter plane, if there are no free school textbooks, the blame is Lisbon. The PSD complains that support for the hospital is insufficient, but last year the regional government paid 200 million interest of home to the businessmen friends — the one for which Miguel Albuquerque's previous right arm was to administer and the other for which Miguel Albuquerque went to South Africa to arrange business. The regional government is irreputable, but the Republic here gives the solidarity that the Madeirans need well. [[Congrats from BE and PS Member Carlos César.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u5	Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the previous legislature, a thorough review of the judicial system was made, attacking structural problems of the functioning of justice, modernizing and creating new mechanisms for the composition of conflicts. We are thus drawing close to best international practices. in a rule of law, for the good administration of justice it is essential that speed and specialization are effectively a reality. This is important for citizens, businesses and economic agents, and here, the General Tax Law and the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure are central parts, hence the Democratic Social Party has put forward a proposal for the revision of these two diplomas, which unfortunately had the votes against the parties that support the government. Today we are giving a new opportunity to make the revision of these two diplomas a strategy for 2017. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u7	Mr. João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, in the last amendment to the Statute of the Roads of the National Road Network, the PSD and the CDS introduced the obligation to hold and regulate existing access on national roads. Then, by door published already after the elections, they set the value to be charged for the accesses. This collection is now happening and it is paying for agricultural holdings. It is unacceptable that costs are now charged for the regularization of pre-existences, even more because it is not possible to ascertain in what situations expropriations were made for road construction and under what conditions the accesses were constructed, or why the administrative titles corresponding to the accesses do not exist. That is why the CFP proposed that there should be no costs for the holders of the buildings where the access to be regularised was located, as proposed the suspension of the ongoing procedures for the application and collection of fees until the revision of the terms of that regularisation, which should take place within 90 days. in the same way, on a proposal from the CFP, the municipal authorities, municipal services and companies of exclusively public capital of occupation rates or use of the road area, in works of water capture and distribution and collection and treatment of effluents, among others. This is another reversal in what the PSD and CDS have done, which is important for farmers, populations and authorities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u9	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, investment is one of the most decisive elements for Portugal to have strong and sustained economic growth. In 2014 and 2015, with a different economic model from the current one, the investment has grown, and has always grown quite sustainably. Today, there are several international factors that would help the growth of investment in Portugal: interest rates are low, the price of oil is low, Europe is growing above many expectations, but, above all, our main markets, with Spain at its head, are growing at a good rate. Even so, the truth is that in 2016 investment in Portugal is falling. Investment is not increasing by 7, 8 % that the Socialist Party has promised to the Portuguese on the Agenda for the Decade. Investment is not even increasing by 4 %, 9 % that the Socialist Party had foreseen in the State Budget ; on the contrary, investment is falling by almost 3 % by 2015. Therefore, before it is too late, the CDS believes that something must be done quickly for the best national interests, to stimulate investment and especially productive investment. In addition to the low rate of IRC (the income tax of the public ), taking up the political agreement that this House has established between the CDS, the PSD and the PS, it is important to help the PS keep the word it has given, and for example we want to reduce the increase in taxes that this majority has made on fuels, which seriously penalises families and seriously penalises our economy, we propose and advocate today for plenary the creation of a fiscal supercredit in 2017, especially for productive investment. We are inspired by a measure similar to that we took in 2013, which in six months allowed 18,534 companies, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, to invest EUR 2524 million in productive investment, especially machinery and equipment. Portugal needs, again, an investment shock, and that is exactly why we are presenting many measures, from an economic point of view, especially aimed at investment. And of them all, this, which is the fiscal supercredit, is perhaps the most important one to give the conditions to national and foreign investors to look at Portugal as a secure investment destination, to have an incentive to invest in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u11	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country was informed yesterday that the right does not support the public recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box — the CDS abstained and the PSD voted against. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The PSD and CDS were pretending to support the public recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box. The PSD and CDS are against the public recapitalization of the General Deposit Box because they want to privatize it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] For four years, one of the biggest goals of previous governance, often propagated by the CDS and the PSD, was the stabilization and consolidation of the financial system. But not only have they failed this goal, but they have also neglected the overthrow of BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) and BANIF ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ) and have also hidden the needs of new capitalisation of the General Deposit Box as proved by the Commission of Inquiry. The PSD and CDS have hidden from the Portuguese the financial situation of our banking system. The PSD and CDS operated in 2012 a capitalisation of the banking system by legal minimums. The PSD and the CDS treated Box as if it were just a private bank. PSD and CDS reject the idea that the General Deposit Box is a public bank. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Only one party that denies the idea that the General Deposit Box is a public bank, is a state bank, is that it can explain why, on 31 July 2015, Pedro Passos Coelho, at the time Prime Minister, came to the public saying that he was concerned that Box is not being able to pay interest on convertible bonds into shares to the State itself. Well, Steps Rabbit made these statements at the same time as he knew about the overthrow of BANIF, and about the overthrow of BANIF did not say a single word. [[CDS-PP protests.]] But he had the initiative to undermine the General Deposit Box for the public square, in an act of total irresponsibility, in a negative sign to the financial markets and also to the international market! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The Prime Minister himself of a State who is the sole holder of the General Deposit Box came to make a public statement about the state bank itself! This says everything about the strategy that PSD and CDS have always had in relation to Box. The strategy was to weaken the Box, open the door for private entrance into the General Deposit Box, taking advantage of convertible bonds in actions, because if the Box could not afford these obligations to the State it would be private to enter that place to assume a percentage of the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This privatization strategy was not successful only because a new parliamentary majority emerged in the last legislative elections and you found here a wall against the privatization of the General Deposit Box. PSD and CDS have been telling the Portuguese for four years that the European Union did not accept that if a State invested in the Box this would be considered an investment by the State itself in its bank. Well, this government has managed to convince the European Union that the capitalization of the General Deposit Box is not seen as a state expense but as an investment by the State in its greatest strategic, economic and financial assets — the merit of this government! You have been saying, for four years, that the State had no money to capitalize on the General Deposit Box, but yesterday we found that 90 000 Portuguese have acquired EUR 1500 million of State bonds, a sign of confidence in relation to this governance and above all, demonstrating that it is possible to capitalise on the cash also with the public money, also with the confidence of the Portuguese. The cash recapitalisation plan and the business plan are approved by the European Union. What the right is intended to prevent the advance of the recapitalisation plan and business plan to the General Deposit Box. The vote against the PSD on the proposal for public recapitalisation of Caixa is a gesture of regrettable irresponsibility in such a serious matter for the country. Our economy needs stability in the financial system. Our economy needs a strong box, and that is our goal. Therefore, PSD and CDS will always find in the Socialist Party and in this Parliamentary Group a wall against privatization of the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u13	Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the rule of the State Budget which amends the financial accountability regime by municipal executives, comparing them with the members of the Government, does not deserve the agreement of the Left Block for two reasons: the first is that it is not the most appropriate headquarters for such amendments; the second, and deeper, is the nature of the proposal itself, which also does not receive the support of the Court of Auditors and the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic, which, in realising itself, only impoverishs democracy, creates distrust and does not protect the electors. This is a dangerous measure, which no one will understand and which will only serve to empower populism and attacks on political parties. If you want to change this rule, equipping municipal executives with government members, then level up and increase the political accountability criteria of political office holders, in this case of government members.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u15	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Paulo Correia here made an intervention which shows very well who is still interested in the fact that, on the General Deposit Box, everything is discussed at least the substance of the matter and what is relevant to the country. The CDS has always had a very clear position on the General Deposit Box, and Mr. João Paulo Correia must be the only Portuguese who hasn't noticed it yet. We never defend the privatization of the General Deposit Box: neither in the past, when we had governmental responsibility; nor in the past, when we were opposed; nor in the present, when we were once again opposed. Therefore, our position on the General Deposit Box is very clear: we defend the existence of a public bank, which continues to be public and has a concrete mission. This does not even have to do with ideological issues, it has to do with the characteristics of the Portuguese economy and the need for a peripheral economy in the euro area to have a public financial institution that allows our economy, which is an economy essentially based on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, to have access to finance and to Portuguese families not dependent on criteria that are often conflicting with what is the reality of our economy and our families. This is very clear and transparent. Another thing is that we have no responsibility, at such a difficult time as this, when the Portuguese are called to contribute to the recapitalization effort of the General Deposit Box, and we are not demanding about what recapitalization is. And being demanding is also being serious. We believe that it is very important even that the recapitalisation plan in Brussels has been approved. We have never said the opposite, and that is the difference: we are able to recognize what goes well, but this does not prevent us from being demanding in relation to what needs to be clarified. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We still do not know why this is the amount of recapitalisation, and the government has never been able to explain it. We still do not know clearly what is the mission of the General Deposit Box from here to the front: if it will effectively fulfill what is intended for a public financial institution, which makes sense only as long as it does have a differentiating market position, or if it will do the same as the other private banks. It's just that if it's doing the same thing as the other private banks, then it's not doing right.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u17	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u18	I will finish, Mr. President. The conclusion that is drawn from this is not that it is privatized, it is that the mission is corrected. And what we know is that the Government of the Socialist Party has not been able to clarify the Portuguese, nor to demand from the Box the fulfilment of the mission that the General Deposit Box should have. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u19	Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Paulo Correia came here to do another distraction exercise. It was important, Mr. João Paulo Correia, that your Government, if you wanted to talk about recapitalizing the Box, would explain the following: how much, why and in what terms? What is the restructuring you want to do? Why do the Portuguese have to pay that or other amount? If we're in the dark today... [[PCP protests.]] ...is because the government has been refusing for months to clarify the country what it wants in the General Deposit Box. More: It is the government that in recent months tells us: « We cannot explain to the Portuguese what we want to do in the Box. We cannot explain the amount of recapitalisation.' And now they say they had a pre-approval in Brussels, now they say they want to continue hiding. No, a serious Parliament does not pass blank checks and is not blindfolded! We already realize that the left-hand parties decide on blindfolded eyes, they walk in front of their ears and shut their mouths. And that is what you want to do with the General Deposit Box: it is to keep the country quiet, while you repeat irresponsibility and mistakes. For example, they put money on top of the problems. Even now, this week, António Costa said that BES should have done exactly the same thing, that is, cast in front of Ricardo Salgado and give the money requested. But not with us. We are in favour of the General Deposit Box. In fact, we are so in favour of recapitalization that we ourselves have made the recapitalization of the General Deposit Box. And we did it at a time when the General Deposit Box, in the midst of the entire international financial crisis, managed to increase its deposits, increased its exposure and its relationship with SMEs ( small and medium-sized enterprises ). In our time, the General Deposit Box has been strengthened as the largest national bank. What happened during your year as a government? It's a disaster for you to manage the General Deposit Box! It was the EUR 1800 million hole, which did not exist. Your administration was first plunged by the ECB and now it has been plunged by your lack of loyalty, your lack of seriousness. They make agreements and laws to measure and then they don't even answer to the Portuguese! When do you, in fact, assume your responsibility and respond to Parliament? We'll be here to defend the Box, the Public Box, the Recapitalized Box. But we do not accept what you want, which is a people and a silent Parliament and blindfolded eyes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u21	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for a long time the Bloc has argued that the Box must have a different mission to support the productive economy, to support the country. And doing this is quite different from creating promotional banks and leaving there to be administrators to receive millionaire wages, never knowing what would be done with it. So, about the right-hand strategy for the banking system, I think we're more or less discussed. The PSD has done nothing but use the Box as a political weapon against the government. And this is not to defend the Box, it is not to defend its robustness and transparency, it is to use the Box as a political weapon. The Block is demanding, it does not close its eyes, it requires transparency. But it also does not accept that the PSD continues to create these numbers to weaken the Box and thus impair its recapitalization, to achieve what it always wanted, which is the privatization of the Box. And that, Mr President, we will not accept. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u23	Mr. Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it may seem difficult to understand these positions of the PSD and the CDS at this time when we discuss the question of Box, because discharge is such that it is in fact difficult to understand. The CDS now says he wants a general deposit box and he always said it and always defended it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u25	Now and always!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u26	It is strange that he participated in a government that wanted to privatize it. [[PCP applause.]] Perhaps it was one of those red lines of the CDS or one of those irrevocable decisions so typical of the CDS, that at any time he was ready to go to the trash can...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u27	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u28	... to participate in a government with the PSD, which sought the privatisation of the Box and which, in fact, did « recapitalisation », intervened in the Box precisely to allow it to privatize in the long or medium term. Mr Leitão Amaro, it is strange that his outrage with the General Deposit Box has not had any concerns at the time his Government gave BANIF EUR 1100 million, without explaining to the Portuguese why and without charging them back. [[PCP applause.]] Your government handed over EUR 1100 million to BANIF, and no one remembers at that time Mr Leitão Amaro had come to ask: "Wait there, but why is BANIF going to take EUR 1100 million from the Portuguese purse? And no one remembers at that time that Mr Leitão Amaro raised questions to Parliament and to the government about the situation in which BANIF was and that it was placed under the carpet to hide the hole of BANIF until the elections. And no one remembers your indignation, Mr. Member, when we had to pay EUR 4, EUR 9 billion to redeem the Banco Espírito Santo, now New Bank. at that time, they did not make all this alarm around the BES resolution to cover the holes of that bank. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what matters is that the General Deposit Box is a robust, solid bank capable of fulfilling its role in the Portuguese economy. And, apparently, with the recapitalisation approved and implemented, this can be possible if the restructuring meets these objectives. The Portuguese will have a public bank, whether PSD or CDS wants it or not. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u29	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, support for organic agriculture should be widely considered in budgetary policy, since it is a means of achieving public and environmental health objectives. It is based on this assumption and with the aim of contributing with solutions to some of the main problems in this row, in its various areas, that we bring this proposal to the debate. This is a measure that aims to promote fair commercial and competitive equity, since, at present, a farmer who produces biologically, i.e., more sustainable, with regenerative practices and which contributes to a healthier and agrotoxic-free diet, has been economically and competitively damaged against the conventional farmer, whose mode of production has enormous environmental impacts and that causes chemical agents to enter the food chain without an increased expenditure, which occurs for organic producers due to the necessary certification. We therefore propose that the costs incurred with the organic certification of the agricultural producer which does not occur in conventional or integrated production be increased by 140 % of its amount for the purposes of determining taxable profit or income. This means that farmers who want to produce organically will enjoy a tax benefit in the certification of their productions, i.e. this increase will allow the value of the deduction to be inflated so that the organic farmer can have compensation in the return of his IRC or IRS. The Government has recognized this measure as essential for the development of the organic agriculture line and will, as such, accompany it. In Portugal, and in the European market, demand developments are higher than supply, and the country imports excessively and unnecessarily products from organic agriculture, contributing to the increase in trade balance deficit, a trend that can be reversed with policies tailored to the needs of the market and the country's productive capacity. They are known and widely documented and studied the benefits of organic farming in the most diverse areas: in health, since they are exempt from chemicals of synthesis, such as pesticides and herbicides, besides not using antibiotics and other products that accelerate the growth of animals; and in the environment, because, in addition to protecting, avoid soil contamination, water resources and has a much smaller contribution to greenhouse gas emissions. The NAP will continue to defend more healthy and sustainable food production to the detriment of the dominant and obsolete agricultural policies that still favour agriculture and intensive livestock, because there have been strong financial support for pig farming and milk business, sectors of the private sphere that are tax-free of public money in many millions of euros. It is with great expectation that the NAP will await the public announcement by the Government of the national strategy for organic farming — so far non-existent in Portugal — which has included the collaboration of the NAP, which brought together and delivered to the Government a document with 20 contributions. The Government thus gives signs that it also seeks to follow the change of eating habits to which it is assisted in Portuguese society. We believe that sensitivity and political will will will be increasingly consensual about the need for cooperation around policies that strengthen a sector with strong potential to provide high economic, social and environmental sustainability.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u31	Mrs. Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the PSD/CDS-PP government brutally increased moderate rates and withdrew the exemption from many of them. In the State Budget for 2016, a path to reducing the value of moderate rates and exemption for patients and others was initiated. The CFP, considering that in 2017 we were expected to continue with this path initiated in 2016, presents a proposal that recovers the exemption regime for chronic patients, which existed before the changes produced by the previous PSD / CDS-PP Government. That is to say, we want an exemption scheme focused on the patient rather than on the disease. Chronic patients are more susceptible and vulnerable to the development of other diseases, so they need to use consultations and treatments more often. The PCP proposal allows these patients to be disbanded and to ensure their access to treatments, health. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u33	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens have chosen to advocate two proposals which have been rejected in the specialty, because they do not understand why they have been rejected. In essence, what we are doing is giving the Socialist Party a new opportunity to rethink its position on each of these proposals. One of the proposals concerns energy consumption reduction. We believe that, if it is true that, at the individual, family and housing level, there are long steps that can be taken—and we have already made proposals in this regard—the business and productive sectors also have a very important contribution to making in this field of energy conservation and efficiency. in this sense, we consider that taxation can contribute to the incentive of certain investments at the level of energy consumption and to encourage companies to make this investment. The Greens therefore make a very concrete proposal for tax benefits to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises with the aim of investing in energy efficiency at the level of their production system. In our proposal, we have even been careful to mention that the realisation of the construction materials in question or of the materials used is subject to a door, which would then be published by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy. Therefore, the concrete model of the implementation of this principle would be the responsibility of the Government. That is why we call on the Socialist Party to reconsider its position of vote and, even today, to adopt this proposal from the Greens. Another proposal that we do not understand has been rejected is the hiring of school psychologists. There is a huge deficit of school psychologists in the country, so either we work to progressively approximate ratios of the number of psychologists as to the number of students to accompany or, if we stay still, we always continue in the same. And this fact has implications for the follow-up of children, the prevention of problems in schools and in society and also at the level of school success. We can promote more success in school if there are more psychologists in schools. We know that teaching in Portugal is not at least customized. There is no more personalized student follow-up because PSD and CDS did the favor of increasing the number of students per class. Therefore, this goal has become much more difficult. Then there is an aggregate set of factors in schools, such as interdisciplinaryness, which can promote greater success among our children and young people. What The Greens are asking is that this State Budget also make a contribution to giving this signal and that determines that the Government, in 2017, hires more school psychologists, because a psychologist for 4000 students is an absurd. There is no one who can promote work under these conditions. And who gets hurt? Our children and our young people, our society, and of course also our teaching system. We therefore ask the Socialist Party to reconsider its vote on this matter, because we no longer expect anything from the PSD and CDS. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u35	Mrs. Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot let the victims of crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination, rape, female genital mutilation, harassment or sexual coercion stop resorting to justice because of economic insufficiency. It is enough the weight that shame and fear so often have in the decision, most of the time, of these women and girls resort to justice to defend themselves. These are heinous crimes that so often destroy entire lives. It is the responsibility of the State and of all of us to ensure that financial constraints will not affect the decision of these victims.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u38	Along with victims of domestic violence, rape, slavery and trafficking in persons, victims of female genital mutilation and sexual coercion must also be free from procedural costs. [[Congratulations from BE, PS and PAN Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u39	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group advocated the article which provided the necessary money for the capitalisation of the General Deposit Box and which had only one vote against it, which was the PSD Parliamentary Group. This vote against the article providing for the necessary money for the recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box is revealing of what the PSD Parliamentary Group never wanted: a capitalisation process of the General Deposit Box successful. That was always the signal that the PSD has been giving all this time. The process of managing the capitalization of the General Deposit Box is not easy, it is a complex process and it is not free of less good moments. That's true! Perhaps, in fact, this explains why the capitalization of the General Deposit Box has not been made in the proper terms and with the capital needs that the Box needed while the PSD governed Portugal. It was a difficult process and they were pushing with the belly. This government knows it's difficult, but it didn't run away from the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is no distracting exercise with the avocado of this article. Distraction exercise was the one in which the PSD involved the country in recent times so that we would not discuss the State Budget, a Budget that did not interest the PSD that was discussed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not at all that, at the moment we were beginning the discussion in the specialty, the PSD parliamentary leader decided to make public statements at a press conference on the General Deposit Box. [[PSD protests.]] It was never really interested in the debate on the State Budget for 2017, because it was a debate — we knew — difficult for the PSD and the CDS. So the PSD preferred to continue the distracting effort you made on the General Deposit Box from the beginning. The PS never defended any loan to Ricardo Salgado. Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, who was with me in the BES Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, knows precisely that.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u41	Go with me to the General Deposit Box Commission!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u42	At the end of 2014, when we learned of the public problems that Banco Espírito Santo had already, when the so-called ring-fencing was made, in which it separated, isolated the financial part of the Group from the business party, to whom was asked to implement this ring-fencing, from this circle to Ricardo Salgado? They asked Ricardo Salgado to save the BES. It was not the Socialist Party, it was the Banco de Portugal, obviously, but the Ministry of Finance, led by the PSD, also had protection over the Portuguese banking system. Therefore, it was not the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party found a banking system, a financial system that did not have the answer it should have had. And that is what we are doing every day: trying to solve the problems in the banking system that we inherited from you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If the PSD wants a public capitalization, that, yes, the greatest victory we have had — no one believed it would be possible to capitalize the Box in a public way, keep the largest Portuguese bank in Portuguese and public hands and it is true that there is an effort of capitalization that is of all Portuguese— let us not forget that this is even the only Portuguese bank that, when it makes profits, dividends are distributed to the Portuguese people. It is the only Portuguese bank in that condition and that is why it deserves all not only respect and defence but also a capitalisation that enables it to be a solid bank and to finance the Portuguese economy. Therefore, we call on the PSD to join all parliamentary boards and not to impede the public capitalization of the General Deposit Box, because we need a strong, solid and public box. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u43	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members of the Socialist Party's bench can do the exercises they want, but the truth is only one: what is happening in the General Deposit Box is the sole and exclusive responsibility of the Government. [[PSD applause.]] It is ridiculous this game of pass-backs that Mr. Secretary of State came here to try. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. and Mr. Members, the PSD is not against the recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box. In fact, the PSD has more authority than you to talk about it. And I tell you why: because in Portugal, in recent years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u45	Mr President, you have already exceeded the time of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u46	... there was a recapitalization process of the General Deposit Box. There! EUR 1600 million! Whose responsibility? of the PSD Government and the CDS-PP! [[PSD applause.]] You have not yet done anything with regard to the recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box. So far it's just talk! It's just words! Not only do you explain, not only do you not clarify, how they do not carry out, and what was urgent in January 2016 is already in mid-2017. Mr. Secretary of State, if instead of looking for pretexts and alibis for your and your incompetence,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u48	... if instead of going to find excuses to hide the lack of transparency of your procedures, you would even recapitalize the General Deposit Box and strengthen it to continue to be the guarantor of the deposits of the Portuguese, the stimulus and the engine of financing of the economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, there Mr. Secretary of State had some authority to discuss this matter. But, with your incompetence and your incompetence, you do not convince anyone, and the fault of this incompetence is yours, only and exclusively. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u49	Mr Luís Montenegro used about one minute and 20 seconds given by the PAN Member. You now have the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Luís Montenegro and the PSD are in favour of the recapitalisation of the Box, provided that no public money is placed in the Box! They're in favor of cash recapitalization since it's not done now! They're in favor of cash recapitalization since it's not done like that! Therefore, the PSD is in favour of recapitalisation of the Box provided there is no recapitalisation of the Box,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u51	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u52	... because it is not the strength of the Box that worries the PSD. It's not! [[PSD protests.]] What the PSD did was not recapitalize the Box, it was to use the instrument, very expensive to the Box, of convertible bonds. And then we welcomed Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, at the time Prime Minister, when he had several million in BANIF, when he had a process of the New Bank to solve, which never solved his mandate well, came to ask for responsibilities to the Box, weakening it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u53	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy. It has already exceeded the time of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u54	I'm done, Mr. President. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD, we understand very well what is the purpose of the PSD, which is not the protection of the Box. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u55	Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. João Almeida said recently that I was the only Portuguese who didn't understand the CDS strategy. On the contrary, I think that I belong to the overwhelming majority of Portuguese who know that the CDS says something in opposition and when it goes to power it does its opposite. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the opposition, you defend the drop in taxes, the increase in pensions and a public deposit when you go to power to increase taxes, freeze pensions and want to privatize the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u57	Mr President, you have already exceeded the time of your parliamentary group. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u58	If the CDS and PSD defend the public recapitalisation of the Box, they vote in favour of the PS proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u59	Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the previous government had capitalized the General Deposit Box well, there was no need for us to be discussing its capitalisation today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u61	What about the money?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u62	We are not the ones who demand greater capitalization needs of the Box. The box was not capitalized enough and you also knew, as well as we, that the box would need additional capitalisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u63	What about the money?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u64	What this government achieved was to ensure that this capitalisation was possible only with public capital. The honourable Member said, in his speech, 'let us say capitalize now'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u65	Mr. Secretary of State, you've outlived your time. I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u66	I will finish, Mr. President. You know very well that in order to capitalise on the General Deposit Box we need authorization. And, if you want capitalisation to be done now, you approve the capitalisation needs of the General Deposit Box that are entered in the State Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u67	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go into the voting period of the legal standards, I would ask the services to proceed with the verification of the deliberation quorum. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 217 presences, to which are added those of Deputies José Pedro Aguiar Branco, PSD, João Paulo Correia and João Soares, PS, Mariana Mortágua, BE, Filipe Anacoreta Correia, CDS-PP, and Antonio Filipe, PCP, performing 223 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. So let's start with Article 8. o — Budget transfers, voting on proposal 122 - C, submitted by BE, amending Rule 47 of the Map of budgetary changes and transfers. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Proposal 284 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, amending Rule 47 of the Map of Budget Amendments and Transfers, was prejudiced by the previous vote. Proposal 424 - C, submitted by the PS, amending Rule 47 of the Map of amendments and budgetary transfers, was also adversely affected by the previous vote. Let us now vote on Minutes No 47 of the Map of amendments and budgetary transfers contained in Article 8. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We will now vote on proposal 58 - C, tabled by PSD Members Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga from the Costa part where they add an article 141. o-C — Extraordinary housing support. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD and the NAP, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the CDS-PP.]] Let us then vote on proposal 58 - C, tabled by PSD Members Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, in the part where I add an article 141. o-D — Education of housing support processes. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] For Article 167. o — Amendment of the Code of Municipal Property Tax, we shall vote on proposal 313 - C, submitted by the CDS, in the part in which Article 1 ( 2 ) is deleted. the IMI Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u68	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u69	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u70	Mr President, it is to correct our vote on a proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u71	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u72	Mr President, we maintain the sense of vote in accordance with the vote in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization in respect of proposal 58 - C in the part in which a Rule 141 is added. o-C. The Socialist Party recently abstained when it wanted to vote against, and that was our sense of vote yesterday, in the field of specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u73	Mr President, I would ask you to repeat the proposal for which the PS intends to amend its position of vote to vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u74	Mr President, it is proposal 58 - C, tabled by PSD Members Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, in the part where it adds an article 141. o-C — Extraordinary housing support.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u75	Mrs. Members, then, proposal 58 - C, where Article 141 is added. o-C was rejected, with votes against PS, BE, PCP and Greens, votes against PSD and PAN, and the CDS-PP's abstention. Let us now turn to Article 167. o — Amendment of the Code of Municipal Property Tax, beginning with the vote on proposal 313 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, in the part in which Article 1 ( 2 ) is deleted. that of that code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected.]] We shall vote on Article 1 ( 2 ). the IMI Code, as set out in Article 167. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] As regards Article 168. o — Adding to the Code of Municipal Property Tax, we will begin by voting on proposal 313 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, for the elimination of this article. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected.]] I ask the ladies and gentlemen. silent Members in the Chamber, because it is impossible for us to maintain a minimum concentration to proceed to the vote. Let us vote together on Articles 135. o -A to 135. o-E, which are added to the Code of Municipal Property Tax, as set out in Article 168. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on proposal 402 - C, submitted by the PS, in the part in which it replaces Article 135. o-F, which is added to the Code of Municipal Property Tax in Article 168. The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us vote on Article 135. o-F, which is added to the Code of Municipal Property Tax in Article 168. The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u76	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u77	You have the floor, Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u78	Mr President, the vote on Rule 135. o-F is damaged by the previous vote. The other articles we can vote together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u79	Let us then take the joint vote on Articles 135. o-G to 135. o-K, which are added to the Code of Municipal Property Tax in Article 168. the proposal of law, and the body of article 168. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still too much noise in the Chamber. I'm asking the ladies. Members standing, in full votes, who feel that the Bureau cannot maintain a minimum concentration. We shall vote on proposal 227 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, to add Article 168. o -A — Amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June 2003. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PS, the PCP and the Greens and votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We turn to Article 169. o — Systematic amendment to Law No 82 - D / 2014 of 31 December 2014. We shall vote on proposal 313 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, in the part in which Article 169 is deleted. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected.]] Let us vote on Article 169. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to Article 173. o — Addition to the Statute for Tax Benefits. We shall vote on proposal 106 - C, submitted by the NAP, adding Article 59. o-E — Expense with organic certification of holdings — to the Tax Benefit Statute. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CFP.]] We shall vote on proposal 167 - C, tabled by the Greens, to add Article 174. o -A — Tax benefits for the conservation and reduction of energy consumption. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on proposal 241 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, to add an article 176. o -A — Special Tax Credit to Investment II ( CFEI II ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] The vote was followed by the vote on proposal 220 - C submitted by the PSD on the addition of Article 179. o -A — Review of the General Tax Law and the Code of Procedure and the Tax Procedure. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 288 - C, tabled by the CDS-PP, to add Article 187. o -A— Elimination of the increase in the tax on petroleum products. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected.]] We moved on to Article 200. o — Amendment to Law No 98 / 97 of 26 August— Law on the Organization and Procedure of the Court of Auditors. We shall vote on proposal 143 - C, tabled by BE, to delete this article. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the BE and the CDS-PP and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP.]] The vote on proposal 250 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, on the elimination of Article 200. the, is thus damaged. We shall vote on Article 46 ( 7 ). the Law No 98 / 97 of 26 August, as set out in Article 200. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] Vote for proposal 414 - C submitted by the PS amending Article 61 ( 2 ). the Law No 98 / 97 of 26 August, as set out in Article 200. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP and the Greens, votes against the BE and the CDS-PP and abstentions of the PSD and the NAP.]] The vote on Article 61 ( 2 ). the Act No. 98 / 97, of 26 August, is damaged with the previous result. We shall vote for the body of Article 200. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CFP and the Greens, the votes against the BE and the CDS-PP and the abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] We moved on to Article 205. o — Amendment to Law No 49 / 2012 of 29 August. This Act adapts to the local administration of Law No 2 / 2004 of 15 January, as amended by Laws No 51 / 2005 of 30 August, 64 -A / 2008 of 31 December, 3 - B / 2010 of 28 April, and 64 / 2011 of 22 December, which approves the status of staff in charge of the services and bodies of the central, regional and local administration of the State. We shall vote on proposal 417 - C, submitted by the PS, replacing Article 205. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] The following votes relating to Article 205 are prejudiced. That of the bill, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u80	Mr President, I think the following votes are damaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u81	The votes of Article 2 ( 2 ) shall therefore be adversely affected. the, points ( a ) to ( d ) and the body of Article 3. Article 6 (1) to (4). the, points ( a) and ( b ) and the body of Article 6 ( 5 ). Article 7 ( 1 ) to ( 4 ). the, points ( a) and ( b ) and the body of Article 7(5). Articles 8. it's 9. Article 21 ( 1 ) and ( 3 ). the, point ( a ) and the body of Article 21 ( 6 ). Article 25 ( 1 ), ( 3 ), ( 4 ), ( 5 ) and ( 7 ). the Law No 49 / 2012 of 29 August, as set out in Article 205. the proposal of law, and the body of article 205. The proposal of the law. We moved on to Article 208. o — Amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 This Act establishes the financial arrangements for local authorities and inter-municipal entities. We shall vote on Article 16 (2). the Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, as set out in Article 208. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the BE and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on Article 16 ( 3 ). the Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, as set out in Article 208. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on Article 16 ( 8 ). the Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, as set out in Article 208. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on Article 16 ( 9 ). the Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, as set out in Article 208. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the BE and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on Article 16 ( 10 ). the Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, as set out in Article 208. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 206 - C, submitted by the PSD, adding paragraphs 5 and 6 to Article 18. the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS and BE and abstentions against the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] I believe that we can jointly vote on Article 19 (a), (b), (c) and paragraph 3 and Article 19 ( 4 ), ( 5 ), ( 6 ) and ( 7 ). the Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, as set out in Article 208. The proposal of the law. [[Pause.]] No objection, let's vote. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions of the PSD and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on Article 22 ( 10 ). the Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, as set out in Article 208. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] I'm asking the ladies and gentlemen again. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be silent because it is very loud and for the Members of the Bureau it becomes very difficult, when not impossible, not to make mistakes. We turn to the vote on proposal 136 - C, submitted by BE, adding Article 26 ( 3 ). the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on proposal 91 - C, tabled by the CFP, replacing Article 40. the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 138 - C, submitted by BE, adding a point ( g ) to Article 79 ( 1 ). the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and with abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 86 ( 1 ). the Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, as set out in Article 208. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] I ask the people who are in the galleries to make the possible silence. It is now necessary to vote on proposal 33 - C, submitted by BE, in the part in which Article 86 ( 2 ) is amended. the Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, as set out in Article 208. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 418 - C, submitted by the PS, in the part in which Article 86 ( 2 ) is amended. the Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, as set out in Article 208. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, as a result of this vote, shall be adversely affected by the vote on Article 86 ( 2 ). that of Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September establishing the financial arrangements of local authorities and inter-municipal entities, as set out in Article 208. The proposal of the law. We turn to the vote on proposal 33 - C, tabled by BE, in the part in which Article 86 ( 3 ) is amended. the Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, as set out in Article 208. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, I believe that the vote on proposal 418 - C, tabled by the PS, in the part in which Article 86 ( 3 ) is amended. that of Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, was adversely affected by the result of the previous vote and the same is true of Article 86 (3). the same Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September, in the wording given to it by Article 208. The proposal of the law. [[Pause.]] Since there is no objection, we will proceed. It is now necessary to vote on proposal 418 - C, submitted by the PS, in the part where paragraph 4 is added to Article 86. the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Let us now vote for the body of Article 208. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] It is now necessary to vote on proposal 366 - C, tabled by the CFP, for the addition of Article 208. o -A — Amendment to Law No 34 / 2015 of 27 April 2015 [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Let us also vote on the proposal 375 - C, submitted by the PS, also to add an article 208. o -A — Amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September 2013 [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to Article 211. o — Amendment to the Rules of Procedure. We shall vote on proposal 224 - C submitted by the PSD to replace this Article. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, the result of this vote is detrimental to the vote on proposal 300 - C by the CDS-PP, and proposal 381 - C by the PS, both of which replace Article 211. The proposal of the law. We turn to the vote on proposal 125 - C, submitted by BE, in the part in which Article 4(1) ( aa ) is amended. the Rules of Procedure. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the result of this vote is detrimental to the vote in Article 4 ( aa ). that of the Rules of Procedure, as set out in Article 211. The proposal of the law. We shall vote on Article 6 ( 7 ). that of the Rules of Procedure, as set out in Article 211. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, if there is no objection, we shall vote on the proposal 125 - C, submitted by BE, in the part in which it amends Article 8 (1), 2, 6 and 7. the Rules of Procedure. [[Pause.]] No objection, let's vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u82	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u83	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u84	Mr President, I wanted to ask for the correction of a sense of vote by the Socialist Party. For some time we have not voted in accordance with the speciality under Article 208. the proposal for a law, proposal 33 - C, submitted by BE, in the part in which Article 86 ( 3 ) is amended. that of Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September establishing the financial regime of local authorities and intermunicipal entities. We voted in favour, but we wanted to vote against, and that was our sense of vote yesterday in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u85	They voted against...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u86	We voted against yesterday, and today, by mistake, we voted in favour, but we want to vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u87	Mr, in that case, we shall repeat the vote on proposal 33 - C, tabled by BE, in the part in which Article 86 ( 3 ) is amended. the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u88	Mr President, I am sorry, we are still voting on proposal 125 - C, tabled by BE, right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u89	No, Mrs. Member. We have just repeated the vote on proposal 33 - C, tabled by BE, for which the CDS-PP had voted against and now in this repetition it has also voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u90	Yes, of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u91	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u92	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u93	Mr President, in view of the outcome of the vote we have just repeated, we must vote on proposal 418 - C, tabled by the PS, in the part in which Article 86 ( 3 ) is amended. the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u94	Exactly, Mr. Deputies. Previously, its vote had been impaired by the approval of proposal 33 - C, tabled by BE, but now, with the rejection of the proposal of BE, it must be voted on. We shall then vote on proposal 418 - C, submitted by the PS, in the part in which Article 86 ( 3 ) is amended. the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, are we in a position to continue with the votes where we have been? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on proposal 125 - C, submitted by BE, in the part in which Article 9 (1) is amended. the Rules of Procedure. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Let us now vote for the body of Article 211. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We moved on to Article 212. o — Amendment to Decree-Law No 144 / 2008 of 28 July 2008. We shall vote on Article 4 ( 4 ) and ( 5 ). Article 7 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) Article 8 ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) Article 10 ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) Article 11 ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) the Decree-Law No 144 / 2008 of 28 July, as set out in Article 212. the proposal of law, and the body of article 212. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP were adopted.]] We shall vote on proposal 83 - C, tabled by the CFP, to add Article 213. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 113/20011 of 29 November. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on proposal 119 - C, tabled by the Greens, to add Article 214. o-F — Recruitment of school psychologists. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 1. o — Subject matter. We shall vote on proposal 426 - C, tabled by the PS, amending Map I — Reinforcement of funds, EUR 2700 million. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus arrived at the end of the vote on the rules of law. Before we move on to the third item on the agenda, which consists of the global closure and final vote of lein. 36 / XIII proposals ( 2 ). a ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2017 and 37 / XIII, we will make a 5-minute interval. The session is interrupted. [[It was 11 hours and 39 minutes.]] The session is reopened. [[It was 11 hours and 48 minutes.]] Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the closing stage of the debate. I note that there will be no flexibility of the Bureau in terms of time because otherwise the session will end very late and, I remember, we will still have to proceed with the vote on the Rules of Procedure after the overall final vote on the proposals of Lein 36 and 37 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). On behalf of the PAN, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u95	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by highlighting a positive feature of this government, which materializes in the capacity to maintain an open dialogue with other political forces and which also included the NAP in the negotiation for this State budget and also recognize, and thank you, the contribution of the parties that support the Government for opening up for some of our proposals, which resulted in the adoption of various measures submitted by the NAP. The measures we have adopted reveal a more active listening to the concerns of citizens who were not represented in the Assembly of the Republic until a year ago. Causes that connect social, economic, environmental and animal rights areas and reinforce the commitment we make to the Portuguese daily. If we associate the enthusiasm that encourages us to the creativity necessary to achieve considerable steps, with evident scarce resources for a party with only one member, we observe precisely these gradual changes by a new environmental, ethical and social paradigm. We want to continue and expand this learning path, to which all party forces have contributed. For this to be possible it is necessary to extend the progress and commitments that have occurred in the social and economic areas, to the protection of the environment and to the rights of animals. The Portuguese continue to fail to realize, for example, why Tauromachic artists — the celebrities of this anachronic show — have to benefit from VAT exemption, such as doctors, nurses and sportsmen, instead of benefiting from other much more decisive areas in our society, such as health, education or research. And the interesting remark: 90% of the Members voted against this measure. The gentlemen. Do you even think that they represent the will of 90% of the Portuguese population in this area? Do you not realize that they are on counter-cyclical and backwards towards the general feeling of the citizens? This shows that we have a path of ideological perception change to travel. The policy in Portugal continues to be bound by a paradigm of unlimited production and growth, much related to the strong advance of economic and corporate power over the rest and the inability to stop the strong conflicts of interest, which continue to drive the citizens away from politics. Progress is only built on the realization of utopias. We can continue to bring humanity to the numbers and intentions of this State Budget. We look at this state budget with confidence. Because there is an open dialogue path and, above all, because we believe that a policy of bridges, of convergence of ideas and forces between parties is possible, we will vote in favour of the State budget for 2017. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u96	On behalf of the Green Green Ecology Party, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u97	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Greens will vote in favour of the State budget proposal for 2017. We have always worked very seriously in this budget, we are committed to concrete proposals and we have not wasted time taking the proposals of others as if they were ours. We worked with great loyalty, we adjusted proposals, as is evident, but we did not say one thing one day to say another the next day. We have made contributions even before the proposal for a State Budget to arrive at the Assembly of the Republic and made it clear to the Government that it could not in any circumstances revert to the replacement of income and that the elimination of the overtax could not waste for anyone beyond 2017. We are fighting for the thawing of the IAS (indicating social support) and, therefore, for strengthening social support, I beat us so that micro, small and medium-sized companies could have a lower rate of IRS when exercising their activity within the country, I beat us so that the removal of asbestos would not be forgotten in this State Budget. We have also made contributions to the Specialized Budget: we have proposed the promotion of the use of collective transport by reducing the price of the social pass for young university students without a condition of resources; we have proposed the deduction of the monthly pass for all members of the family in IRS; we have proposed the increase of nature watchers to more means for promoting and preserving our biodiversity; we have proposed the promotion of short circuit marketing — a fundamental matter for combating climate change, and not only; we have proposed the evaluation of the exemptions and reductions of the TSU (unique social rate) which may represent a waste of more than 500 million euros that are needed in other areas; we have proposed measures to eliminate architectural barriers. These were proposed by the Greens and finally adopted at the state budget level. But we also put forward other proposals that did not have the Socialist Party's favourable reception, particularly in terms of energy efficiency, either in the housing sector or in the business and productive sector, and unfortunately also at the level of higher recruitment of school psychologists. As a whole, ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens consider that this State budget continues to restore income, it soon creates better living conditions for people; it combats impoverishment and inequalities with some notorious steps it takes; it has relevant environmental measures; it takes steps at the level of education to reduce the costs of families with their children's education; it takes steps at the level of health for more family doctors and greater access of the population to health care; it takes micro, small and medium-sized enterprises as actors in the economic dynamics and the necessary creation of employment. Therefore, the Greens would also like to say that we need a strong, robust, solid General Deposit Box to stimulate this economy, we do not need novels that harm, add up or make that objective difficult. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this State Budget gives many signs of rupture with those who were the political objectives of the PSD and the CDS. The PSD and CDS wanted the privatization of key sectors, including the General Deposit Box,... [[PSD protests.]] ... social security systems — State social functions —, worked for the impoverishment of the Portuguese people to get used to a certain level of impoverishment, claiming that this was a necessity of the country. But a country can never have as necessity the impoverishment of its people! The maximum of the PSD and the CDS was that those who work, who study, who need health care are expensive to the country and therefore promoted cutting, precarious, uninvestment policies, from the environment as a business. In view of this, it is not surprising that the PSD and the CDS do not comply with the fact that there is evidence that there is an alternative to a policy of degradation and impoverishment. But we're not wrong either, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If this State budget were an absolute majority of PS, it would be quite different. For this purpose, it is sufficient to look at Budgets of the former State of PS governments, where much deficit has been claimed at the cost of sacrifice and the interests of the people. With regard to the many advances that this State budget envisages, we would be — we are convinced — to hear « cannot be». But, after all, it can be a lot. After all, it may be, if anyone is capable and has the competence to propose it and make it possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u98	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u99	I will finish, Mr. President. The joint positions which the PS and the Greens have signed, as well as the dialogues between the PS and the Greens at the state budget level, have enabled them to contribute to progress. In addition to the State budget, the Greens will continue to fight in this Parliament for more environmental and social justice. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u100	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We said of the initial proposal for the State Budget that the Government submitted for 2017 that consolidated the replacement of rights already achieved and contained prospects for new advances, despite falling short of the country's needs and possibilities, as a result of PS options. We said that it would be necessary to take further the positive measures that contained and to counteract negative aspects. At the end of the debate, it is possible to say that it has moved forward in this direction. We do not ignore the constraints and constraints that continue to limit our sovereignty and the response to the structural problems of the country, in particular those resulting from the European Union's impositions, from the debt grip or from the monopoly capital domain on national life, especially in the strategic economic sectors. We also do not underestimate the importance of the steps taken in the replacement of rights and incomes, in responding to the immediate problems of workers and the people, because we well know the struggle that has been necessary to prevent these popular claims from being taken as political demands and present today as a criterion in the political decisions that are taken. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, PSDs and CDSs have set up as state policy contempt for the people, their rights and their difficulties. With its electoral defeat, this policy was condemned and there was no longer any majority in the Assembly of the Republic that supported it. The need not to allow this policy to be developed by either hand is a central concern of the moment we live and one of the ways to give it translation is to continue with determination the path of replacement and conquest of rights. This State budget is the second in which concrete expression is given to these possibilities of advancement. It is no wonder, therefore, that PSD and CDS have sought in the debate of the State budget to speak of everything but the Budget. They did not want — and do not want — to discuss the Budget because it makes them uncomfortable, because it leaves the naked the injustice and cruelty of their politics, because it exposes the responsibilities they have in the grave national situation, because it shows the contradictions, that they cannot be released. Whenever they entered the discussion of the Budget, PSD and CDS were placed on slippery ground, now defending the policy that they made pointing to it as the right way to the country, now saying that it was not their policy and that they only executed it because they were forced to do so. When discussing measures and proposals that improve the lives of Portuguese, workers and the people in the Budget or respond to their problems, PSD and CDS now stirred the ghosts of external risks, uncertainty and criticism of the European Union, they were now justified by the favorable external climate and the kindness of those who look out for Portugal from outside. Having no courage to face the discussion of another Budget that destroys his speech on the inevitability and cuts in rights, PSD and CDS ended up reduced to a speech of insults, provocations and escapes. They insist on a stance of disrespect by calling a government of the Republic a govern, cause opposing parties to think that they are all governed by their petty criteria of politics, use all side issues that allow them to escape from the discussion of the Budget and thus feel they are a good figure. [[PSD protests.]] The refuge they sought in the General Deposit Box was perhaps the most obvious of the leaks they sought in the debate of this Budget. PSD and CDS have never been truly concerned about the wages of cash administrators or the transparency of income and wealth declarations. Anyone who thinks that these were ever the worries of PSD and CDS or is naive or is getting distracted. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] PSD and CDS have only brought to the budget debate the question of the Box because that was the pretext with which they could more easily divert the discussion of the Budget and because they never gave up their fundamental objective of forcing the privatisation of the public bank. [[PCP, BE and PS applause.]] The PCP made it clear that I would not dance to that music! Knowing the objectives of PSD and CDS and the need to combat their designs, on the part of the PCP we will not let this Budget be forgotten, diminished or devalued anything that contains positive. We need to keep track of the most significant developments in this final intervention resulting from this State Budget for 2017. One of the most obvious advances is the increase in pensions. Only those who despise pensioners and pensioners who do not take into account the difficulties with which thousands of elderly people live in Portugal can devalue the extent of the increase in pensions resulting from this State budget. This increase in pensions has the decisive mark of the PCP. It has our decisive brand, because we did not comply with the automatic update of the 2016 budget pensions and we fought, at that time, for an increase in the actual value of pensions. [[PCP applause.]] It has our decisive brand, because we do not give up fighting so that the increase in pensions would not only consider the value of the lower pensions and take account of the appreciation of the contribution careers, considering that those who discounted an entire life also have the right to have their pension increased. We defended this position even when it was attacked with false arguments of injustice for those who were only defending increases similar to those that PSD and CDS had done. This increase in pensions has our decisive brand, because in the beats for an increase of 10 € that was considered criterion by the government in the initial proposal it presented. It also has our decisive mark in the proposal that the Government has just presented in the specialty, of an increase of €6 for minimum pensions, because the CFP did not give up discussing, even after the Budget presented, and this insistence has borne fruit with the Government's approach to the positions that the CFP has defended. [[PCP applause.]] in this budget, on pension matters, there is indeed a very significant difference. When PSD and CDS had the majority, the proposals that the PCP presented with pension increases were always on the way. Since PSD and CDS were furnished with power, pensioners and pensioners began to have pension increases. To criticise the proposed increase of 10 € defended by the PCP says the CDS that we are far from the time the PCP proposes increases of 25 €. We say that the reformers are now closer than they can, because in two years we are going almost the middle of the road. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] But there are also other important advances in the State Budget for 2017. The employees of the Public Administration see increased their income with the increase of the meal allowance, which will initially be of 0, 25 € and will increase to 0, 50 €, in the amount of 11 € per month. Public sector workers have returned to collective bargaining and corresponding rights, in particular in terms of remuneration and progress in their careers. All workers benefit from the increase in family allowance to 130 000 children, who will receive up to 3 years of age the increase that they receive only in the first year of life and also for the advance in the free education manuals, which extends to 370,000 children of all 1. the cycle of basic education. Advances in the fight against precariousness in the Public Administration with the prospect of opening seats on staff maps and hiring workers, valuing the experience of those who have already served. Support measures are approved for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, with the reduction of the PEC (special payment on account) from €1000 to €850, and the prospect of their elimination, and also support farmers and fishermen in agricultural gas oil and gasoline for artisanal and coastal fishing. In the field of energy, important proposals were adopted to reduce the price of bottle gas, to extend the regulated rate in electricity, to reduce the price of energy and fuel by eliminating energy sector revenues. The higher value real estate tax is guaranteed in a more firm manner than the budget proposal, with the amendments and corrections made to the initial text. Many other proposals could be mentioned: in the hiring of nurses and health professionals; in the freeness of access to museums; in the support of arts and literary creation; in the elimination of architectural barriers or in the support of premature children. About 55 measures were adopted by proposal or with the contribution of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]] Many other battles will continue to be put in place to defend collective bargaining, by revoking its expiry and by replacing the principle of treatment that is most favourable to the worker. For the immediate future there will be the battle of wage increases, including the minimum wage. We want this discussion to take place in the Assembly of the Republic and we have already scheduled the debate. The CFP will bring to the discussion the proposal with which it has committed itself in the elections, to fight for an increase of 600 €, already in 2017, because it is necessary to value wages and workers know that they can count on the CFP for this objective.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u102	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u103	I conclude, Mr. President. Only two paragraphs are missing! [[Laughing.]] Today, we will approve this State budget by valuing the positive elements it contains and the answer it gives to concrete problems, but also with an accurate notion of the limitations and inadequacies it entails and that it is necessary to overcome. We therefore do not see it as a point of coming to politics that allows the country to overcome its problems but as a point from which we will be in a better position to mobilize workers and the people for the struggle for the break with the policy of right and for the construction of the patriotic and left policy that we defend and propose to the people and to the country. [[PCP, BE, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u104	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u105	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: This budget is truly a missed opportunity for Portugal. This Budget is not our way, it is not the way of the CDS, because it is, without half words, a bad way to Portugal. We had an essential moment: after years of difficulties, we finally have a country free of the troika, the need for financial assistance and adjustment plans, which was, in fact, the PS which brought, that throughout this debate, has often been hidden, forgotten, omitted, deluded, but that the Portuguese will certainly not forget. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We also now have an environment which is now in our favour: the European economy is growing; our main trading partner Spain is growing above 3 % — more than twice as much as we do — and the ECB continues to maintain a low-interest policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u106	In 2014 and 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u107	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the time to turn the page around, to leave behind, from time to time, the conformity with which Portugal has systematically discussed the same problems and to focus seriously on economic growth, which is not just a number. This growth could have been a reality in employment and in better living conditions for many Portuguese. But in this Budget, the government, instead of hope, has offered us propaganda.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u109	Nothing can be more eloquent about the failure of the Budget than the silence of the Prime Minister during almost all the debate of this Budget. It was the first time, in many years, that the Prime Minister did not reply to the Members in the debate, in general. When it comes to giving your face for options, convictions, when it comes to having courage, I think we are talking! [[CDS-PP applause.]] But this option is well understood or, better, this option is not. In fact, if we think of all the promises that Mr Prime Minister has made and has not fulfilled, it is clear that he would rather remain silent. Let us think, for example, of what the PS said or, better, of what « tweetava », in April 2015, when Portugal grew 1, 6 %. And I quote: "It is necessary to turn the page to this cycle of austerity and get better economic results. "We can grow to 2, 6 % a year with a new policy". It was a PS spin! Well, in the election campaign, these 2, 6 % had already passed to 2, 4 %, besides, with the support of a group of wise men, some of whom today promoted ministers and Members, exactly the same ones that, with all scrapping, still only a few weeks ago celebrated a growth of 1, 2 %, as if it were a great fact, forgetting and tearing out all that they promised the Portuguese during the election campaign. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] at that time, the PS felt that a growth of 1, 6 % was a cycle of austerity, today it thinks that a growth of 1, 2 % is an increase. Do not let yourself be extraordinary and, therefore, silence is well understood! But we fully understand that Mr President also does not want to answer, for example, why debt should be 125 % of GDP (gross domestic product) and is now 133 %! As we understand that it does not mean, for example, where is the famous elimination of the overtax, which still at the beginning of this year had approved, or where is the change in the IRS steps — such brutal increase in taxes that all Members, or almost all of us, who hear speak, speak, but nothing does not do to be taken advantage of to implement their policies — or even where the VAT on electricity and gas is lowered. These are questions that remain unanswered and it is well understood that the government cannot answer them. But the CDS is a combative opposition, and being combative with content also necessarily implies being constructive. That is how we made more than 50 proposals for amendments, which would completely change the strategy followed, surgical proposals, which could correct some of the most flagrant asbestos and proposals, frankly, of the most basic social justice. This is how we proposed that pensioners in minimum, social and rural pensions should have the same extraordinary increase that was proposed for other pensioners with higher pensions than these. The united left dropped them. This is your notion of social justice: giving less to those who have less! [[CDS-PP applause.]] And, yes, I still remember the time when the PCP promised these pensioners 25 € a month—maybe because it was a short time ago. [[PCP protests.]] by the sights, now, the PCP believes that what is fair is to give increases to pensions of € 8000, € 9000 and € 10 000, more than many thousands of pensioners receive, every month. This is your notion of social justice. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] They can scream at ease because what made you scream louder than any of your screams! [[CDS-PP applause.]] The CDS proposals had four essential lines. We put forward proposals to help families cope with the problem of low birth rates in Portugal, as was the case with the family quotient, a measure that resulted in France. We have created a group of proposals to make the economy grow seriously, helping businesses rather than hinder them — this is the case with the reform of the IRC or the tax supercredit. We have put forward proposals in the area of sovereignty, highlighting our proposal to avoid, as unfortunately will happen, that there are fewer police on the streets next year and, consequently, less security for the Portuguese. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Finally, we have created a group of proposals to increase transparency and public responsibility. And here I have to highlight the sensible, balanced and weighted proposals presented by the CDS regarding the General Deposit Box, which we always defend as a reference public bank. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u110	In opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u111	And we have to say here that never, but never, a government has done so much to cause damage and damage to the General Deposit Box, nor has the General Deposit Box ever been treated with such irresponsibility as this government managed to do in six months. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I understand that you want to stir up ghosts and you want to pass on guilt, because you actually have a lot to pass on, but it certainly will not be on the CDS that you will find someone to pass on to. And even though Mr Prime Minister tries to blame Mr Finance, there are two commitments in which he has repeatedly failed and he will not be able to hide it from the Portuguese, because these are commitments that Mr Prime Minister freely has chosen. The first is a commitment he had with the Portuguese to manage, and well, the General Deposit Box. For a Prime Minister who made the banking sector and the resolution of his problems—which were indeed very urgent, and during this debate we also became aware of the very urgent concept of the PS, which may take years to be resolved—the alpha and the omega of his economic policy, Mr Prime Minister, in the General Deposit Box and as far as responsibility is concerned, could not have gone any worse, unfortunately. Secondly, the commitment he made to the Administration of the General Deposit Box to create a sui generis legal regime, which simply failed. As for the final part of the State budget, it is also important to explain what was the result and how the votes took place. As far as the CDS proposals were concerned, we had several forms of lead, very creative, besides: from the most frontal form of votes against, to the most fake form of the voting coalition convenient, to a new form, the telephone — in which the proposals passed but, after 30 minutes, someone from the government bench connected to the PCP bench or the Left Block and we had the sense of vote changed — we had everything! Some proposals have been saved, as is the case with the publication on the Citizen's Portal of all the fees paid, but, of course, the penalty has dropped. by the way, the united left are always in favour of transparency and respect for the citizens, provided that there is no consequence to the administration when it is not fulfilled. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the budget for the new austerity. It is a hidden austerity, which maintains all the tax increases of the beginning of the year, which invents several others and which, for each avous measure of support, finds two to seek money from the middle class and the taxpayer. It is the tax brawl to confuse people and distance investment and, above all, to divide Portuguese rather than to join, satisfying customers and trade unions but harming the common good. [[PCP protests.]] It is also a correct account among the left, paid with taxpayers' money. This is how, at the same time that we have a new tax, better known as « Mortagua tax », absurd to many titles, we continue to have a large party free of IMI, which is the case of the PCP,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... and unfortunately we continue to have an asset revaluation regime that is a custom-made fact for energy sector companies, approved with the support of the PCP and the Left Block, and that the Portuguese taxpayer will unfortunately pay in the coming decades. This is in fact the survival bill of the Socialist Government that all Portuguese taxpayers will have to pay and only that can explain the options taken as regards the evolution of the retention year at the source of the over-tax and the updating of pensions from August onwards. The united Lefts have in fact introduced new concepts of reintroduction of income and social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u112	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u113	I will finish, Mr. President. They are concepts which, from their point of view, appear above all when the elections are approaching. In good Portuguese, Mr. Members, this is called to throw sand into people's eyes and deceive the Portuguese, and above all reminds us of a 'film' we know in 2009, which is to increase income before the elections to cut them off. It is a 'film' whose end, unfortunately, we know and that we would all like to never see again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u114	Madam Member, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u115	Thank you very much for your understanding, Mr President, and that is why the CDS will vote against this State budget. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u116	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u117	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the responsibilities of a sovereign body is to show what it serves. At the end of this budgetary process, we can say that the Assembly of the Republic, contrary to what has happened to many other governments, has shown that it serves and does not leave to the government its responsibilities. The State Budget for 2017 is now better, in its final version that will be approved in a moment, than that proposal which the Government has given to the Assembly of the Republic just over a month ago. We are proud of the work that we have done until this delivery of the State budget in the Assembly of the Republic, but we are also proud of the work that, in the specialty, with openness, frankness, dialogue, but also with persistence, we are able to stop to achieve this result. in this period, in the debate in the specialty, we showed that it was possible to do better. Today, the proposal for an extraordinary increase in pensions is better than it was in the past. It increases 10 € for all and all pensioners up to an IAS and half (indicating social support), 640 €, and does not leave behind, because it increases by 6 €, the minimum pensions of the minimums, which were the only ones who had seen their incomes frozen during the troika period. We increase the coverage of those who are exempt from the overtax payment in 2017 and we have the guarantee that now there are more than 90 % of the taxpayers who will see the end of the overtax on 1 January 2017. We guarantee that family allowance will reach more children, in a process of gradual increase over the coming years, knowing that children should be valued as such, by their own right, and not in subservience to their family, their parents and their mothers. We guarantee the fight against precariousness, which we want you to start in the state, leaving no one behind but that it is comprehensive to society, because precariousness is one of the scourges in our country. We increased the defense of self-employed workers, changing the rules of their contribution journey, opening the doors to a fruitful work that protects them and we hope that good port will arrive in 2017. We guarantee the necessary regional solidarity, ensuring that those who have been weakened by problems such as the fires that happened in Funchal, Madeira, would not stay behind and we did not fail to meet the challenge of regional solidarity. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But we also guarantee that what was one of the biggest advances in the State Budget for 2017, with support for families in difficulties that had access to the social energy tariff, was now also a huge advance, so that they could have access to the social water tariff. It is the evidence that, over this period, we have managed to improve the State budget, but there have been battles that the Left Block has put in place and that were fundamental to improving another essential fight: transparency. For transparency remains the strongest country, democracy is strengthened and we guarantee that there is a commitment of the electors, of those who have positions mandated by the voters, with the people, the citizens and the citizens. So when we voted for transparency in the General Deposit Box we made him aware that it will become stronger because it will get closer to what the citizens need and the form of supervision they have to be able to do. But we also ensure that we open the door to other fights for which we have not yet been able to convince other parliamentary forces. For example, it was due to make the amendment to the IMI that makes parties pay it like the other people, contrary to the exemption they now enjoy. It was the responsibility of the autarchs, which, as the Court of Auditors said, is essential so that everyone and everyone can be held accountable in democracy. These are fights that we'll have ahead, guarantees that the Left Block won't put in the drawer. We know how the PSD and CDS went throughout this process: many cases, many homes, and always trying to put what was not the budget in the budget debate. It is paradigmatic that, when the debate in the specialty began, the PSD parliamentary leader was not here to discuss the State Budget, he did not want to know about the debate in the specialty, he was out there giving press conferences. This shows very well that the PSD and the CDS had, in particular the PSD, this debate in the specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The General Deposit Box is too serious to play with. We know that for PSD and CDS the problem is not the value of wages—sérgio Monteiro says, who has to thank the PSD and CDS a salary of €30,000! We also know that transparency is a last-minute conversion, because António Borges was the shadow minister of the previous government just to not have to meet the transparency requirement that any minister or minister needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u118	Don't say shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u119	And we do not forget the votes of the PSD and the CDS. When reformers and pensioners in our country have an increase in January and another increase in August, they and they will know that they have nothing to thank for the PSD and CDS, which—you can imagine! — have abstained from this increase. Caught that they were, for example, at the narrative of the increase in taxes, PSD and CDS voted against the reduction in the overtax of IRS. The elimination of the overtax of IRS to 90% of the taxpayers had the vote against the PSD and CDS! And now — and this is a vote that should deserve our attention, Prime Minister — the PSD and CDS have voted against the programme to combat precariousness in the State. And if you said that this should be worth our attention, Prime Minister, it was because it should be a distinguishing mark between the previous parliamentary majority and the current parliamentary majority. This is one of the contradictions that is on the table: we know that there is precariousness in the state, but we also know that many rights are lacking because there is also a lot of precariousness in the private sector. We know that collective bargaining is essential and must be on the table for 2017, but we also know that if there is legislation where the troika left its biggest brand, that legislation is called the Labour Code and that, Prime Minister, should be one of the priorities for 2017. These are the struggles but also the contradictions that we have to heal in the present majority. And these are fights that the Left Block will block from here on. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This State budget also shows well the inequalities we have in European policies, and it is enough to look at public debt to see how they hit our door with all their strength. Our country's primary balance of EUR 5000 million is worth more as a percentage of GDP than any other in the European Union. By the way, it is worth as much as 25 times the value of the extraordinary increase in pensions — 25 times! However, it disappears in an instant to pay the interest on public debt and, soon thereafter, we still have to be indebted to pay for the remainder. The profits of the European Central Bank with our public debt between 2011 and 2016 were more than EUR 5000 million. And now let us ask: which countries were then distributed? From this money only Germany had EUR 1281 million, only France had EUR 1009 million, and only Italy had EUR 876 million. That is why we ask: has this debt that is withdrawn from the Portuguese public safes served to increase the public safes of the richest countries in Europe? But let's also look at the IMF. The IMF, which entered Portugal saying that it wanted to help us, imposed a 3 % penalty on the interest rate charged to us, which is worth more than EUR 500 million per year, i.e. more than twice the extraordinary increase in pensions each year — this is because of a penalty for these « friends» of the IMF. This clearly shows that this change in policy cannot go without a serious, profound debate and with consequences for public debt both in Portugal and in Europe. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But we look at the world, look at Europe and realize how much we still need to do. There are many problems that are at stake. If a Trump bothers a lot of people, a Trump and a Le Pen will bother a lot more. Faced with the rise of the extreme right in Europe — and we see this in Italy, Austria, the Netherlands, Germany, France — it is a mistake to think that one fights the extreme right with the extremism of the centre. This is an impossible reconciliation and the Saudiism of the recipe that has been defeated in recent years. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The budget treaty is an example of this. And so when we look at our deficit, we realize that the deficit in Portugal for 2017 is smaller than that in Italy, Spain and France. After all, the European Commission's policies are so strong with the weakest, but so weak with the stronger. But what does this center extremism tell us? That is to be fulfilled, that the budget treaty cannot be moved. And that's what we don't accept. The Left Block will be in defense of the country, in front of Europe's turbulence, against this European disintegration, against the financial instability that strikes us day after day, against the humanitarian crisis, both of the poor in Europe and of the unemployed in Europe and of the refugees who are at the door of Europe. And as for this failure of the project, we have no consistency with it, but we have alternatives and they are only built on the left. The danger of external shock in 2017 can only result from the affirmation of policies that defend our economy, employment, which let us tie ourselves in relation to the budget treaty to free resources for public investment, protect the country and create jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u120	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u121	I will finish, Mr. President. The answer has to be taken in an essential test: whether we can follow a policy that responds to abusive structural unemployment, recovers the human resources that have fled the country (the people who have emigrated and left the families undone) and ensures that we withdraw the advantages of our labour legislation. A policy for the return, for the recovery of who has departed and for the recovery of our economy. That is our obligation. That is our commitment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u122	You have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we will approve the 2017 State Budget for the second year of this Parliament which will end in 2019. With this approval, the Assembly leaves a clear record that Portugal has a parliamentary majority committed to political stability and a definite course. Once again, the desire for a wasted party opposition, which has constantly complained about the blockade, chaos and backwardness, now in Parliament, now in the economy, now in Brussels, now in the hands of the rating agencies. Fortunately, as we have already said, he did it without luck, because the luck they chose was the bad luck of the country. Worse for them, better for Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Political stability alone is not enough, but it is a necessary condition. Finally, as the President of the Republic pointed out, «for entering the lives of the Portuguese», it constitutes a factor of confidence. Many Portuguese who were suspicious of solutions to the left today are calm and confident. This is how we strive to build a budget policy for 2017 which once again represents and continues a policy of social convergence, parliamentary convergence and European convergence. With the largest of the outbreaks, the still leader of the PSD accuses the current governance of over-partisanism. On the contrary: the political stability that we build on the day-to-day, also resulting from an established interparty dialogue, does not overlap with the opinion of citizens; it is a dialogue that calls people and strengthens the country, and not the result of a party immobility. And that is why we have gained more stability and more social peace, in the same proportion that we break with the sovereignty and autocratism of previous governance of the PSD and the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that the alternative to the path we have made — and that has benefited the Portuguese and strengthened the economy — is that of the return to the social and economic backwardness we have already experienced. That is why we are committed to the best, because not even the mermaids are the worst wounds. That is the way, the way we are proud to be doing in a shared way with our parliamentary partners and with the acceptance and support of a growing majority of Portuguese. The political disfunctionality of the opposition and its fear of any success of now leads it to all investives, such as devaluing, or even denying, any proven progress. They left us the country in the last half of 2015 with the investment and growth of the economy to decrease, with the debt to rise and the uncontrolled deficit,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... and they think that by growing the Portuguese economy now more than any European country and controlling the deficit, it is to stay below expectations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] European institutions and entities are unanimous: not only are we « having good results in terms of budgetary implementation » and « countering vulnerabilities in the banking sector », such as « (...) it is necessary to have humility to recognise that the optimism of the Portuguese government(...) has been confirmed » and « the Portuguese economy is on the right track ». It is because of these and others that the opposition loses credit every day—because it doesn't want to feel what the Portuguese feel. A short time ago, they said satisfied: « Portuguese may be worse, but Portugal is better». For now, in a short time, they should say: « Portugal is better, but the Portuguese too! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are surprised at the ongoing denial of these progress by the CDS, which is now calling for « radicalism of love ». Perhaps they have forgotten the Encyclical Lumen Fidei, in which Pope Francis wrote that « Most people today do not regard love as somehow related to the truth. « Without the truth,...» — continues — «... love is unable to establish a firm bond(...) ». We therefore advise the CDS to inspire itself in truth to meet with its own country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] The PSD, that, you know, understands that only they know and that everything is wrong. We were not surprised, but remember the story of the parents who thought the step-by-step son in the parade was the only one who went well. That's the PSD! Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 2017 Budget is the result, as I said, of the constraints, needs and ambitions we perceive and yearn for. But once again we managed to help people, families and businesses, strengthen local power and support the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, continuing the change we are committed to. We will continue to promote the recovery of family income and social promotion, as well as that the right disregards what he calls pejoratively how to govern « distributing money ». Measures such as the elimination of over-tax, the real increase in pensions, social income for inclusion and solidarity for the elderly, the allocation of a single disability benefit, the extension of family allowance, the promotion of birth, free school textbooks, the extension of the supply of pre-school education, support for meals, transport and propines, the strengthening of support for social security institutions, the expansion of the network of family health and continuing care units are some measures, among many others, which confirm this sense of change. Such measures as those to be implemented under the Capitalisation Programme, the acceleration of structural and investment funds, procedural simplification and reduction of administrative costs, or others, such as the implementation of the territorial cohesion plan, the tax credit for investments above a certain value, the investments of the 2020 Railway Plan, or the effects of deliberate investments in schools, hospitals and other public services, give notice of the ongoing effort to help the growth that the latest indicators have revealed. The more detailed discussion of the Budget has allowed, with the same sense of dialogue and dialogue that has led us, to formulate and receive many other dozens of proposals that improve and value these social and economic dimensions of budgetary policy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the State budget for 2016, the PSD called « unrealistic», « bad » and « poisoned » ; saying there was no « possible arrangement », did not present proposals and was in the debates as if it were not. to the 2017 budget has already called « fanfarronice», « bad» and « without strategy », saying again « no arrangements possible» and being above « merceries » ; however, it came to the debate with proposals as if it had not said the same about the previous budget. He was left with the cautious justification for the use of the political rhetoric which despises the merceries, the prosapia of the'structural proposals', they say, intended — imagine! — and I quote, 'Catapultar Portugal'. And, among other things, they propose to change the composition of the board of directors of social security institutions; to strengthen the powers of the Council of Public Finance in areas already assigned to it; to demand that the projects approved in Portugal 2020 be publicised; to institutionalize the Territorial Consultation Council, which the Council of Ministers has already created; to amend the Budget Framework Act, after four times and four years have done so. After all, the structural proposals were nothing. If there is a positive record to be made, we are only reminded of one: the PSD remains equal to itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The budget we are going to approve shows that there has always been another way. The challenge was and is precisely to prove that it was and it is possible to successfully associate a policy of social responsibility and economic development with a policy of financial responsibility and good public accounts. This challenge has already taken its first steps as a winner and this is already a great victory for the first year of the government in office. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was also demonstrated that the ill-treatment suffered by the Portuguese in the years of the PSD/CDS government did not result only from the submissive acceptance of the guidelines of our creditors, or from the « mistakes of the previous government », or from the expiation of our lives, as they said, « above our possibilities ». On the contrary, it was shown that little more was shown than the tragic consequence of the insensitivity of the doctrines on which the governance of the PSD and the CDS was founded. The word for 2016 is post-truth. For it is, what they imposed on us as truth yesterday, we prove today, here, now, that it is another. Neither the Government nor the PS lack the rigor and seriousness that the government of Portugal needs, nor does the PS or the Government lack solidarity with those who need it. That is how we want to make Portugal worthy of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, confidence is the key word of the present and the future: Parliamentary confidence; the trust of those who observe us and those who are destined for our efforts; the confidence that has enabled us to escape the sanctions due to the failure of the PSD/CDS government and has allowed the European recognition of the good budget implementation in 2016 and the validation of the 2017 Budget; the confidence reflected in the economic climate. In 2017 we will continue to have good results in economic growth, job creation and in the financial and budgetary situation. We estimate reaching the lowest unemployment rate in the last eight years and the lowest public deficit in memory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] I shall finish, Mr President, by recognizing, however, the complexity of the moment we are facing at the external and European level. The threats of instability and uncertainties come from the four cardinal points of the planet— Brexit, North America, Eastern Europe, as well as the Mediterranean and Africa. The signs of political disturbance in essential European countries are not negligible either. We are therefore aware of the risks and obstacles and of the need for us to be prepared to overcome them. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, I am convinced that we will be able to defend Portugal and always put the Portuguese first. That's what brought us to the government. That's what keeps us going. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u124	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr José de Matos Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u125	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, about 10 months ago, the State Budget for 2016 was debated, the PSD repeatedly warned that the budget was not the budget that the country lacked, because it was based on an unrealistic macroeconomic scenario; because it demonstrated a total lack of knowledge of the challenges our country was facing, in an international context of extreme volatility; because it was based on a wrong economic strategy, based on the expansion of private consumption, which, moreover, did not register, and on the minimization of the role of exports and investment as growth engines; because, breaking with commitments assumed by the State, it called into question our external credibility. All alerts fell, however, into a broken bag. You can see why: behind the budgetary options of this government and this majority has never been a defender of national interest. What mattered was to build a scenario for the new parliamentary majority; to reverse and destroy what had been done, not because it was wrong, but because it was the responsibility of the previous government; to satisfy the wishes of those who, having never taken office in the executive, were anxious, as demonstrated, for recovering lost time. at the same time, the entire government's political rhetoric was based on a speech that was, and continues to be, as seen in Mr. Carlos César's intervention, consciously false and objectively misleading about the results achieved between 2011 and 2015. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]] Nothing surprising, however, because, for this left—and I stress, for this left—the truth is a non-important detail, a detail that can be freely manipulated when it is convenient for us, a footnote that should be removed when it is contrary to our objectives. But once again, the Socialist Party and its partners have forgotten two very simple truths: firstly, that later or earlier, reality always leads to better and, secondly, that populism, which can in the short term favour those who promote it, always represents a heavy burden that the Portuguese, unfortunately, will have to pay. Today, if we look beyond the barrier of propaganda and the practices of illusionism, the conclusion can only be one: the recipe has failed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u126	The economy will grow around 1, 2 % when it grew in 2015, 1, 6 %, something to which, undeniably, the Prime Minister then classified as anemic growth. Where are you, Prime Minister, the 1, 8 % promised in the Budget for 2016? Where are the 2, 4 % of the famous « 12 magnificent » document? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u127	In fact, the trace of this document was lost, which was even deleted from the Socialist Party's website, in a maneuver worthy of Soviet historical revisionism. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] Public debt was in the second quarter of 2016, at 131, 7 % of GDP, which represents an increase of three percentage points in relation to the 2015 counterpart period. Where are you, Prime Minister, the 127, 7% promised in the State Budget for 2016? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u128	Where is Mr Prime Minister the 128, 8 % provided for in the « 12 magnificent » document? This year the investment will have a negative growth of 0,7 %. Where are you, Prime Minister, the 4, 9 % promised in the Budget for 2016? Where are the 7, 8 % of the « 12 magnificent » document? [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] Exports of goods and services will grow, according to your forecast, 3, 1 % in 2016. Where are the 4, 3 % of the budget, Prime Minister? [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] Where are the five, 9 % advanced in the document of the « 12 magnificent »? They now assure us that the deficit in public accounts will be less than 3 %, which is in itself a positive fact. But at what price and with what consequences will a deficit be achieved located just a few tenths below the 2015 deficit?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u129	That's too good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u130	It is achieved by transforming what was conjuncural austerity, imposed by the need to withdraw the country from bankruptcy in which the PS left it, in definitive austerity, based on a generalized and uncontrolled voracity, applying, without criterion or rationality, such a plan B budget that the government and its partners insist stubbornly on denying, a plan in which the capitulations, normal budgetary management instruments, turned into courts without criteria, cuts which, with the complicity of the earlier so vocal trade union structures, have ineligiblely degraded the provision of public services in such crucial areas as education, health or transport,... [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] ... deferring the payment of debts, especially in the health sector, with total indifference to the asphyxiation that this represents for companies, protecting the assumption of commitments, whose most grueling case, because stated by the government itself, is that of the recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box. In this regard, it is important to say that the process which has now culminated in the resignation of the President of the General Deposit Box Board will remain in the annals of history as a case study of incompetence, of contempt for public interest, of disrespect for the most basic rules of the rule of law. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u131	It's been five minutes and we've reached the Box!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u132	The General Deposit Box has been in an impasse for the sole fault of this government and its disastrous management of the file for a year. And someone has to assume responsibility and remove the indispensable political consequences, because the issue is too serious for this time to be able to die single. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Things are what they are, the recipe has really failed. And that explains the investors' mistrust of our country, for example, clearly at the high level of public debt interest rates to 10 years. in this particular, the comparison between Portugal and Spain is particularly pressing: a country like Spain, which was without government one year, pays about 1, 5 % interest ; a country like Portugal, which has this government one year, pays more than 3, 5 %! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u133	What about last year? It was like that too!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u134	Only that the mistakes, theimosias and tricks of the government and the majority do not just reflect on them—that would be the least! — they affect us all because the country is today more fragile and more vulnerable in times of great demand and even greater risks. And that's something that really upsets us, because, for the PSD, the worst is never better when the future of Portugal and the Portuguese is at stake. This also distinguishes us from the current majority, who, in the years of our governance, always wanted everything to go wrong so that their political purposes could, in fact, be realized! Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 2017 Budget shows that the Government is not willing to learn from mistakes. And he doesn't learn why he doesn't want, therefore, as the people say in their secular wisdom, at the first any one falls, at the second only falls whoever he wants. Mr Prime Minister has recently been very pleased with the 'good news' — the words are from him — that the European Commission has announced in the autumn economic forecasts. But what are these predictions? That the Portuguese GDP will rise only 1, 2 % in 2017, against the 1, 5 % indicated by the Government and still remain two years behind the growth in 2015 ; that the budget deficit will fall within 2, 6 % in 2017, against the 1, 6 % expected by the Government ; that the structural deficit will remain unchanged at 2, 4 % against the 1, 1 % promised by the Government ; and finally that the public debt will reach almost 130 % in 2017, against the 128, 3 % advanced by the Government. Moreover, in line with these forecasts, even yesterday the OECD showed its concern at the fragility of the Portuguese economy, also presenting very different numbers from those presented by the official propaganda of the regime. There is therefore no reason for any contentment, Prime Minister. And there is no reason why this is a budget from which any strategy is absent for the sustainable growth of the economy and employment, because this is a budget that does not point to a single serious and credible line of export promotion and foreign investment attraction, because this is a budget that goes completely along with the need to continue the necessary reformist effort towards the strategic sectors for the Portuguese economy, because this is a budget that ultimately deepens injustices and promotes inequalities in Portuguese society, as it is clear from the increase in taxes and, in particular, indirect taxes. In fact, what justice can be when it shoots in all directions, aiming to increase the tax burden on everything and all to benefit some sectors, instead of sharing the effort fairly and proportionally between those who can and may not? But justice and equity, in good rigour, are not even ever a concern of this government and of this majority. If they were, this budget would start from a proper construction budget, the proper distribution of existing availability, rather than being the expression of a voluntary and dangerous intention and the obtaining, at any cost, of the revenues indispensable to the realization of the particular interests of the majority, without consideration for the consequences that this has for Portugal and the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u135	There is, however, something in which this Budget is particularly perverse. In the year of actual elections, which will take place between September and October, on the date on which the Government determines, because it is he who has this competence, the majority postpones the extraordinary increase in pensions for the month of August. Now, if there is financial availability to carry out an extraordinary increase, I ask: why have you rejected the PSD proposal to, through the proper redistribution of the available funds, grant this increase from January onwards and do so without discriminating negatively those who receive lower pensions? There's no money in January and he suddenly shows up less than two months from the city hall? The government and its majority can give the reasons they understand, but at least they don't want to make us crazy! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In good Portuguese, what they want to do with this measure is called electoralism, it is called opportunism, it is called, above all, shamelessness. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Not everything is bad in this Budget. This budget, however, has a political virtue, although not in its content: to put an end, once and for all, to a farce and to demonstrate, once and for all, that we do not have, in Portugal, an Executive of the Socialist Party, we have a real government of unity from the left. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u136	It is true that the Left Block and the PCP are testing, here and there, attitudes of pretense autonomy in the face of socialists, but they are no more than fun maneuvers, swallows to try to confuse the most distracted. Since Mr. Carlos César has entered by the radicalism of love, let me tell him that, in the end, they are nothing more than gossip about lovers who may be trying to spice up the relationship. [[PSD laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u137	He went from insult to provocation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u138	But they are toys that do not come to hide the truth, and the truth is that this is a government based on a real coalition between four parties that have a common political programme; it is a government in which all materially participate, with the formal originality of one integrate it and the other three pretend that they are outside; it is a government that attests, above all, to the ideological confluence between the four parties, only possible by the progressive radicalization of the Socialist Party, which thus abandons—and we hope that it will not do so definitively—the political matrix that made it a central party of our democracy. [[PS protests.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because with this Budget the Government resigned from its responsibilities, the PSD felt it was politically appropriate to present a set of structural proposals—because they were structural in nature, and not that playful image which Mr Carlos César, as his habit, intended to convey. Instead of the logic of budgetary auction, where the left, in particular, is a specialist, we prefer, however, the logic of serious and sustained work, identifying three priority areas of intervention, always in a perspective of the future: the area of local power and decentralization of competences, i.e. the vertical reform of the State; the area of social security, which is in a delicate situation, as the PS recognizes to the point of affecting the revenue of a new tax; and the promotion of investment and capitalization of enterprises, without which there will be no economic growth. For us, the relevance of the themes is far beyond the partisan guerrillas. So we were careful to build our contributions with an open work base. In vain, we have done so, because the Government's compressor roll and its most obedient majority have practically rejected everything. However, this attitude has allowed an important political clarification: we all now know that for the PS it does not count the merit of the proposals but its party origin.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u139	They did better!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u140	It has now become crystal clear that the calls for dialogue made by the Socialist Party are false and that their propagated predisposition for the construction of consensus is nothing but pretense. Once and for all, the mask fell on the government and on the Socialist Party! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Chapter VI of a classic of literature called Alice in Wonderland there is a dialogue between two of the main characters, Alice and the Cat, who do not resist bringing you here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u141	Look at the rabbit hole!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u142	Ask Alice, addressing the Cat : « Can you please tell me which way I should go? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Says the Cat: «This depends a lot on where you want to go». Reply to Alice : « I'm not very interested in where I'm going». Ends the Cat : « In that case it does not matter why you follow the path». I do not know whether the author has ever thought about the applicability of this dialogue to politics, but the text describes, in perfection, the attitude of this government and this majority. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] This is a government and a majority for whom the movement is all and the end is nothing, it is a government and a majority for whom the future does not matter, because they are only concerned about today, it is a government and a majority for whom any journey serves, because they really have no idea where they want to go. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] For our part, we do not give up on our responsibilities. We will not give up, nor will we ever give up, to criticize those who, because of lack of vision or lack of courage, are mortgageting our collective destiny. We will not give up, nor will we ever give up, affirming the unfortunate truths, even if they are against the tide of politically correctness. We will not give up, nor will we ever give up, proclaiming that there is an alternative path to a government that subordinates everyone's interest to defending political-party conveniences. And we do not give up, nor will we ever give up, because today, as always, our fidelity is only one: for Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause, stand up, and CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u143	In order to make the closing intervention by the Government, the Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today will be voted on by this House, the State Budget for 2017. A further budget year is thus closed and another one is ready to start. No one would expect, in this Chamber, and especially those who hear us outside it, to come here today to say that in the fiscal year that we are closing everything was a sea of roses and that all members of this government today feel fully satisfied because they have had all the necessary means to carry out their projects, from the simplest to the most ambitious. Any citizen would doubt the truth of those words, if he here today dare to speak them. They would think, quite reasonably, that I was forgetting about their difficulties, such as those they also feel on their day-to-day, or that they were hiding the problems that everyone knows the country has had, and still has, to solve. The fact is that this budget year has not been quite an easy year. It is difficult to combine the fulfilment of demanding deficit targets with the replacement of due incomes, as it is difficult to combine the resolution of serious deferred and hidden problems in the financial sector with other important public investments and the resumption of modernisation programmes. However, despite these and other difficulties, at the end of a year of government and budget, at the end of a year of work committed to all those who are part of this government — and as Minister of Presidency I have had many opportunities to testify — we can say, with evidence and numbers, that, against the pessimism of many and the secret desire of some, we fulfil the Budget without plans B or amending budgets and we generally fulfill what we promise. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This has also resulted in the recovery of income, wages and pensions, the replacement of social minimums and the progressive return of the overtax as promised; it has resulted in the reduction of social conflict, labour relations and society in general; it has translated into growth and employment, because in the third quarter there has been the lowest rate of unemployment since the first quarter of 2011 and some 90 000 jobs have been created, compared to the same period; it has been translated into greater rigour and consolidation of public accounts, with a deficit that the European Commission expects below 3 % for 2016, and the removal of sanctions for past budgetary non-compliance and the imminent exit of the excessive deficit procedure; it has translated into increased exports of goods, with more 6, 6 % in September, in the same period, while maintaining surpluses of the external trade balance; it has been translated into the attention of many dynamic people, extended to all ministries, with more flexibility, with more than 25 % in the same period of time, with many citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And all this without increasing the general tax burden, opting for its redistribution in terms that we consider socially more equitable. I believe you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, and I even understand that all this is quite different from the scenario set by those who thought there was no need for this government to do anything about itself. For the opposition—and we should now remember—this government could never have consistent parliamentary support, the Budget for 2016 would have been dropped in Brussels, the deficit would obviously fire, growth and employment would decline and almost certainly be a new rescue. in a word: we would go deep as a stone jangada in a flood of disasters announced in the context of misfortune and curse. But that was not what happened; the boat did not sink and dart until it took new paths, new paths. The results recorded in public accounts, economic recovery and employment—I have already mentioned here today—show that our boldness has been rewarded. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State Budget for 2017, as the previous one, does not exacerbate social inequalities; it combats them with policies of inclusion and with a real update of pensions. The State Budget for 2017 does not treat science as irrelevant, something from rich countries, or culture as a luxury and therefore unnecessary asset. In fact, the budgets of these two areas grow in 2017, because culture and science are, for us, the main investment in the future and represent, in addition to everything else, a strong help in creating wealth in this country. The collaborative laboratories that we will create to stimulate scientific employment in close collaboration between scientific and academic institutions and the productive, social and cultural fabric will be a good example. The State budget for 2017 addresses the problems of companies, supporting their capitalisation, for example through measures such as the tax relevance of the conventional remuneration of social capital, i.e. the reduction of the taxable profit of companies with a percentage value on cash inflows to strengthen their capital, or by reviewing the tax system to support investment and the reform of customs VAT. The modernisation of companies, the improvement of productivity, the increase of their external competitiveness are a condition for us to ultimately overcome our budgetary difficulties. The State budget for 2017 values public services and those which guarantee their daily provision and provides for an investment in the modernization of the State, in the simplification of procedures and in the qualification of public officials, because for us, the State does not only serve to ensure the functions of sovereignty, or the right to ownership and freedom of contracts; for us, it is also the responsibility of the State to promote investment and innovation, it is up to it to protect fundamental rights and freedoms, to defend public interest in individual or corporate interests, to realize social rights and to regulate the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the continued privatization of the State and the alienation of its functions, we must respond with more innovation and simplification. For us, it does not make sense a minor state, but a better state. The State budget for 2017 takes account of budgetary consolidation, which will be continued through the reduction of the budget deficit, the increase of the primary balance and the reduction of public debt, because financial liability is a assumption that this government takes seriously. For all this, it is normal and even expectable that the parties on our right to depart from the 2017 Budget, it is normal that from their neoliberal vision the idea that the market is that it should correct inequalities and not our solidarity... [[P.S. and BE Mariana Mortagua's deputy.]] ... and that the market must replace the State in the provision of public services. I am not surprised that in our most qualified youth there is a « generation of lost heads», precisely the generation that was born and grew up in democracy, who saw the world without filters, who had known since very early that it would have to fight for employment and professional progression, which is successful in many places on the planet, and fortunately also here, who knows, so often, to be supportive of those who need the most at the expense of their free and leisure time. I understand, now, because they were sent to emigrate! It is even normal, I would say it is life, that they have some envy of the expected value for this year's budget deficit, the lowest in the history of Portuguese democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As Father Antonio Vieira wrote in the History of the Future: «There is no good thing without contradiction, nor great without envy». What we are already surprised at is that they forget so quickly what has been or is — I don't know well — their programme, their doctrine, their convictions and, above all, what their policies have been in the last four years and now they defend that the increases in pensions, which they intend to cut further, are, after all, reduced or deferred;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that spending on public education, which intended to dismantle, should increase its pace; that public investment, which hostile, should fire, even if not also in infrastructure, without any limit, study or weighting. And we don't even talk about the overtax of the IRS...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u145	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u146	...that they now consider that it should end immediately for everyone, after they have perpetuated with the promise of the illusion of their reimbursement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's not all worth it when you move aside. Not so, today, it's already becoming credible for anyone who wants to hear us. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This government presented itself to Parliament a year ago with a bold but balanced programme, markedly different from what was being followed in various areas of public policy, where this was necessary, of course, and with a parliamentary majority previously negotiated between various parties in this House. Nothing that does not happen in the history of the democracies closest to us, nothing that does not enrich them, extending the political geometry necessary to a stable governance, which is what the citizens want. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Recognizingly, political and social stability is the result of this joint work of cooperation between the Government and the political parties supporting it in this Parliament. at the end of a year and a budget completed, without rules to be systematically declared unconstitutional,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... without the need to use budgets to correct forecasting errors, this Government has fulfilled its Programme, as it recommends the credibility of the policy, has respected its commitments with those who support it in this House and the budgetary and other commitments with the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As European Commissioner Pierre Moscovici acknowledged, among other voices, « It is necessary to have humility in order to recognize that the Portuguese Government’s optimism over the 2016 State Budget has been confirmed ». We trust and will do everything within our reach so that the same will also be true of the 2017 Budget. at the end of a year of work, we were also able to outline strategies for four years in the National Reform Programme, in different areas, ranging from the promotion of investment to bet on knowledge and innovation, on equality, in valuing local power, approaching the political decision of people, that the first experience of participatory budget at national level is also a good sign. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have once again bet on the employability of people, on their lifelong training, on their digital skills, so that they can cope with increasingly transversal technological challenges and so that they can benefit from their personal and professional life. At the same time, we waged in the following generations fighting child poverty, which the previous government ignored, valuing public school and the success of those who learn from it, which the previous government despised in the name of freedom of choice, and stabilising scientific employment. Our first objective in 2016 was therefore to leave the state of budgetary emergency, restore financial normality and reconcile citizens with the state. We are now in a position to think politically over the longer term, to realize an agenda of institutional and political transformations, which launch, decisively and sustainably, Portugal in the path of greater growth, more employment, more quality of life and more social and territorial equity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are the strategies we are going to pursue next year, with the Budget which we are discussing today. It is not yet, surely, that Budget which we all wish for the services that we direct or protect, nor so little that they have submitted to our consideration; it is the one which the limited resources of our country, with due responsibility, will allow us to use. On our right hand, I would say that it is time to recognise and play your role as a constructive opposition, rather than because that is what the citizens of this country have done for a long time now! [[P.S.'s applause.]] On our left, we reaffirm that we will maintain the commitments established within the framework of our possibilities as Country, and, of course, the availability to discuss together, as we have always done, new problems and solutions without dogmas or prejudices. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A clear example of this cooperation was the acceptance by the Government of proposals made in the discussion on the speciality of this budget, such as the strengthening of social action at school, or the re-qualification and modernization of the prison system, among several other examples that I could mention here. To all the citizens of this country, to whom I address especially in this House, which is and will always be your House, we ensure that we will continue to rule the present with strategic vision and eyes placed in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will ensure a sustainable future from an environmental point of view and incorporate a circular economy strategy with less waste and more reuse. A future where the « sea» and its « salt» are not only « tears of Portugal », but also an opportunity to be valued. A future that ensures the relevance and proximity of public services, ensuring a more balanced country in the occupation of the territory. A future of modernity, where innovation is invested, if innovative people are supported, if they use the transformative potential that some emerging technologies offer us, both for the private sector and for the public sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A future where you do not despise and, on the contrary, you value those who risk your money to create more wealth and more employment, and have good results. A future where the social responsibility of companies, including equal treatment of men and women, is as important as having good results at the end of the year. A future that leaves no one behind, paying particular attention to those who lose their jobs and their profession late in life and those who have not yet been favored by the advantages of an information-based society. A future with more equality in the distribution of wealth and also in access to knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A future where the Armed and Security Forces are seen as an essential condition of well-being in a country that wants to be safe and relevant within the European Union and in the international space where it is inserted. A future of a country faithful to its international commitments, but open to the world and able to explore new partnerships and cooperations as it has always done throughout its history. Finally, a future that gives the newest hopes here can be happy and the older can count on the tranquility they have worked their whole lives for. The future, the luck of having a future is always us, all of us, who build it in the present, with realism but also with a spirit of risk, with creativity and with ambition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] from this government, of all who are part of this government, I leave here the guarantee of another year of work, without conformity, with enthusiasm, because without it all always seems impossible, with courage and dedication to the Portuguese, for the future of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause standing, and BE's colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u147	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 221 presences, which are added to those of the Members. Deputies Joaquim Raposo, Maria da Luz Rosinha and Santinho Pacheco, of the PS, and Assumption Cristas, of the CDS-PP, making 225 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the voting. Mrs. Members, we begin with the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, on the proposal for law No 36 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2017. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[On your feet, applause from the PS.]] We now move on to the overall final vote of Bill No 37 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[P.S.P.'s applause standing up, and PCP's colleagues.]] at this time, I would like to thank the work that has been carried out in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization. I would also like to thank the Secretary of the Bureau, Idália Serra, who has had a particularly comprehensive job, and that of the whole Bureau. I would also like to thank the services of the Assembly of the Republic which provided that everything had worked well in the Commission and in the plenary and, of course, all the ladies and gentlemen. Members of all parliamentary groups. [[PSD, PS, BE, PCP and Greens applause.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 158 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In spite of the death of Fidel de Castro ( PCP and PS ). You have the floor to read the vote, Mrs. Idália Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last November 25, at the age of 90, Fidel Castro died, historical leader of the Cuban revolution, who served as Prime Minister and as President of the Council of State and Ministers of the Republic of Cuba until 2008 and as First Secretary of the Communist Party of Cuba until 2011. In addition to natural differences of opinion that may exist with regard to their ideological convictions, Fidel Castro was a personality whose dimension was universally recognized not only by those who share their ideal and project of building a more just and supportive society, but also by the most diverse statesmen and leaders worldwide. Fidel Castro dedicated his life to the ideals of social progress and peace, directing the struggle that put an end to the dictatorship of Fulgêncio Batista in Cuba in 1959, and mobilizing the Cuban people in the construction of a socialist society, having faced, since 1962, the economic, financial and commercial blockade imposed by the United States of America to their country. As leader and statesman, Fidel Castro has become an unmistakable reference to the peoples of Latin America and other peoples of the world, being one of the striking personalities of the history of recent decades. Fidel Castro was a friend of the Portuguese people, committed to the development of cooperation and friendship relations between Cuba and Portugal. His participation in the Ibero-American Summit held in Porto in 1998 was a significant expression of the ties of friendship and solidarity that he maintained with the Portuguese people. at this moment of emotion for the Cuban people, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 29 November 2016, expresses to the National Assembly of the Republic of Cuba and to the Cuban people, regrets the death of Fidel Castro ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u149	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens and the Deputies of PS Helena Roseta, Idália Salvador Serrão, Isabel Santos, Marisabel Moutela, Renato Sampaio and Santinho Pacheco, votes against the CDS-PP, PSP Deputies António Costa Silva, Bruno Vitorino, Pedro Alves, Pedro do Ó Ramos and Emília Cerqueira and PS Deputies Assence Simões and Wanda Guimarães and PSA, PS and PAN Abstentions.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 159 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In spite of Fidel Castro's death ( PS ). You have the floor to read the vote, Ms. Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last November 25, at 90 years of age, Fidel Castro, statesman and historical leader of Cuba, whose political course changed the course of his country. over the years he has performed numerous public functions in the Republic of Cuba, as Prime Minister, between 1959 and 1976, and as President of the Council of State, between 1976 and 2008, he has also served as First Secretary of the Communist Party of Cuba from 1965 to 2011. Thus, it disappears a figure of central importance in the reading of the 20th century and whose legacy in Latin American and international history will certainly be the subject of extensive historiographical analysis in the coming decades and, as already happens, of intense and passionate debate among those who adhere to or oppose their ideological and political course. Determining the deepening of diplomatic and proximity relations between Portugal and Cuba after the Revolution of 25 April — diplomatic relations that have never been interrupted even in the framework of regime changes in both countries — Fidel Castro has always appreciated the ties that unite the two peoples and that, in numerous non-international countries, with a particular focus on the Ibero-American Summits, has allowed for greater cooperation and efforts to stabilize international relations and for the creation of a space for sharing the plans of peace and cultural closeness. at a time when open roads are seen to overcome historical blockades of Cuba's international relationship with some of its neighbours, it is important to highlight the importance of open dialogue paths, in the line of progressive measures of openness manifested in life by Fidel Castro himself, and that can contribute to a future of progress and deepening fundamental rights of all Cubans. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret to the Cuban people and the institutions of the Republic of Cuba for the death of Fidel Castro and for the moment of mourning, reaffirming the bonds of friendship that unite the two peoples on both sides of the Atlantic and whose deepening reaffirms their adherence and commitment».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u151	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Submitted to the vote, the votes against the CDS-PP and PSD Members António Costa Silva, Bruno Vitorino, Emília Cerqueira, Pedro Alves and Pedro do Ó Ramos and abstentions from PSD, PAN, PS Wanda Guimarães and the members of the CDS-PP Filipe Anacoreta Correia, Hélder Amaral, Isabel Galliça Neto and Patrícia Fonseca were approved.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u152	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u153	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u154	Mr President, I would like to inform the Bureau that, with regard to the votes that we have just voted on, the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u155	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u156	Mr President, I would also like to say that on these last two votes I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u157	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u158	Mr President, in the same way, I will also present a statement of vote on the two votes that we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u159	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u160	Mr President, my speech is for the same purpose, i.e. to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u161	It is also registered, Mr. Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u162	Mr President, it is precisely for the same purpose, i.e. I will also present a statement of vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u163	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u164	Mr President, I would like to inform the House that on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group we shall present a statement of vote on the last two votes of these two.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u165	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u166	Mr President, I would like to inform the House that I will present a statement of vote, because I will never vote against the death of a citizen, regardless of whether I respect that person.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u167	Mr Duarte Pacheco did not mean that he would never vote against death, but against grief.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u168	Of course, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u169	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u170	Mr President, for the same purpose. I wanted to say that, on my behalf and on behalf of the Andreia Neto Members, Antonio Leitão Amaro, Bruno Coimbra, Carlos Costa Neves, Crisóvão Simão Ribeiro, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Margarida Mano, Miguel Morgado, Nuno Serra and Rubina Berardo, will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u171	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr André Pinotes Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u172	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, i.e. to inform you that I will also present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u173	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u174	Mr President, on behalf of the Left Block bench, we will present a written statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u175	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u176	Mr President, Members Isabel Galriza Neto and Patrícia Fonseca, Mr Hélder Amaral and myself, in addition to the declaration of vote of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u177	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Álvaro Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u178	Mr President, it is only to inform us that, on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Fatima Ramos, we will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u179	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. With no further requests for a word, we shall proceed with the vote. The following vote: No 161 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Miguel Luís Kolback of Veiga ( PSD and PS ), which will be read by Secretary Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Miguel Luís Kolback da Veiga was born in Porto on June 30, 1936. In the singularity of its genetic code — the mother, Parisian with cosca roots, and the father beirão — one can well find the metaphor defining his being: on the one hand the telurical strength of his character, the righteousness, the dignity and the strength of his convictions; on the other, the love and worship of beauty, in its various forms, that has always been surrounded throughout his life — painting, sculpture, literature, poetry... Graduated in Law from the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra, on 31 October 1959, he enrolled as a lawyer in the city of Porto, on 9 June 1961, and since then he would never leave the profession. Defender that the first duty of citizenship is to work in a decent way, Miguel Veiga was one of the great exponents of Portuguese attorney, who exercised exemplaryly, being famous for the literary quality of his petitions and the fierce theatricalness of his interventions in judgment. At the end of his life, he was awarded the Honorary Medal of the Order of Lawyers, a greater expression of the recognition of his peers. In the late 1950s, in Coimbra, integrates a candidate list to the Academic Association of Coimbra that would be defeated. However, there is the genesis of large opposition student movements. His name also includes a manifesto that, on the occasion of 70. Salazar's birthday, asked for his resignation. Such an attitude would mean that he would be deprived, years later, of admission to the competition for university professors to the law chairs of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Porto, for allegedly having, according to an information from the PIDE contained in his process in the Tower of Tombo, ‘ good moral behavior but not offering the minimum conditions to cooperate in the realization of the superior purposes of the State. ’ In 1974, alongside Francisco Sá Carneiro, Magalhães Mota and Francisco Pinto Balsamão, he was one of the founders of the Democratic People's Party, today the Social Democratic Party, in which he militated until the date of his death and in which he came to occupy the highest positions. He was one of his most prominent militants and his voice was always heard in the most decisive moments of the party's history. His party bond never prevented him from thinking and acting completely freely and sometimes even against his own party: that is how he, for example, was a supporter of Mário Soares in his first candidacy to the President of the Republic and, more recently, Rui Moreira in his candidacy to the City Hall of Porto. He was a Member of the Constituent Assembly but never served, despite the invitations to do so, in any government, because, as he said, he did not want to lose his freedom or leave the Port, the city of his passion. over the years, the name of Miguel Veiga has become so inseparable from the history of Portuguese democracy and the consolidation of the values of freedom and justice. Laic, republican and deeply free, has embraced throughout life countless causes of citizenship, for which he has always fought in a frontal and independent manner, but with a very own style, which are not alien to the elevation and quality of his public interventions. He left the work published, being author of several legal essays and also of texts of cultural charis. He collaborated with the written press and throughout his life has always made his voice heard, which has become to many references in the scenario of public discussion, not only political but also cultural. He is the Chief Officer of the Order of Freedom and was thanked with the Municipal Medal of Merito—Grau Ouro — of the City Hall of Porto, from which he also received the City Medal of Honor, the highest distinction of the Port. On the occasion of his death, on November 14, it is timely and fair for his name to be remembered in the House of Democracy and Freedom, he, who has always been one of his most accruing defense and practitioners princes. Therefore, it is with sadness that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, marks the death of Miguel Luís Kolback of Vega, transmitting to his family, to the Democratic Social Party and to all those who have become accustomed to admiring and recognizing his personality, the most painful sense of regret.”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u181	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 163 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Alfredo Bruto da Costa ( President of RA, PSD, PS and CDS-PP ). I would like to ask Mrs Idália Salvador to read the above-mentioned vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Alfredo Bruto da Costa passed away on November 11, at the age of 78. Born in Goa on August 5, 1938, Alfredo Bruto da Costa was licensed in Engineering by the Higher Technical Institute, later having become a doctorate by Social Sciences, by the University of Bath (United Kingdom), with the Thesis The Paradoxo da Poverza — Portugal: 1980 — 1989, and also with a degree of Doctor in Sociology by the University of New Lisbon. It was precisely in the field of social policy that Bruto da Costa performed university teaching functions, passing through the Portuguese Catholic University, the Higher Institute of Economics and Management and the Higher Institute of Labour and Enterprise Sciences. He was a professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Lisbon. Minister of Social Coordination and Social Affairs of the V Constitutional Government, led by Prime Minister Maria de Lurdes Pintassilgo, Alfredo Bruto da Costa, was Ombudsman of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon, between 1974 and 1980, President of the Economic and Social Council, between 2003 and 2009, and President of the National Justice and Peace Commission, between 2008 and 2014. He was also State Councillor, elected by the Assembly of the Republic, between September 2014 and January 2016. Man of deep convictions, strict political and committed and citizen commitment to the causes of peace and poverty eradication, Alfredo Bruto da Costa devoted himself to economic and social development until the end of his life. With its death, Portugal loses one of the main faces of fighting poverty and exclusion, someone who will be enrolled in our collective history as one of the ones responsible for the greatest advances in social policies in our country. He left us a great Portuguese. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, shall mark its death by conveying to its family and friends its profound sadness and the most profound regret».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u183	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask everyone to keep a minute of silence in relation to the votes we have just appreciated. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when I thank a number of people for their contribution to the smooth progress of the process of assessing and voting the State budget for 2017, I have, of course, forgotten the honourable Members. Members of the Government and also Vice-President Jorge Lacão, who replaced me several times over the last few days. I would like to thank you very much for the same. We now have vote No 160 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings by 41. the anniversary of 25 November ( CDS-PP and PSD ). I would ask Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro to read the above-mentioned vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In the year in which 41 is celebrated. the anniversary of 25 November, it is important to mark this date as a historic landmark in the democratic consolidation of our country and to renew our commitment to the values of freedom and democracy. It was in this spirit that, for more than four decades, and in the democratic path initiated on 25 April 1974, Portugal affirmed respect for the impartial principles of freedom of expression, party pluralism and free elections. On 25 November it ended the turbulent period of the revolutionary transition, which it was agreed to designate as PREC, and set the pluralist and democratic nature of the political and constitutional regime of Portuguese democracy. Without it, Portugal would hardly have traced a democratic, Atlantic and European destiny. On November 25, there were several protagonists. But it is fair to recognize the decisive role of historical personalities in this process, such as Ramalho Eanes and Jaime Neves ; and also to highlight the importance of the party leaders of then, such as Francisco Sá Carneiro, Diogo Freitas do Amaral and Mário Soares. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic marks 25 November as a decisive milestone in the affirmation of Portugal as a democratic and plural country, inserted into the great spaces of international affirmation — the European, the Atlantic and the Lusophone —, complying with the democratic rules which enabled the creation of on 25 April.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u185	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, against BE, the PCP and Green OS and the abstention from PS and the NAP.]] We turn to vote No 162 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings for the consolidation of democracy in Portugal ( PS ). I would like to ask Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to read the above-mentioned vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The process of conquest and consolidation of democracy in Portugal finds its roots in the resistance to dictatorship established after the coup on May 28, 1926 and in the work of the various groups that have secured the opposition to the regime, among them mobilizing republicans of all extractions, socialists, communists, liberals, Catholic groups, monarchies and Christian Democrats. After 25 April, the liberating and founding movement of democratic Portugal, and despite the uncertainties, advances and setbacks and intense debates on the future of the country and its institutions, sometimes translated into moments of tension and risk of conflict, the Portuguese and its democratically elected representatives, together, knew how to build the decisive commitment to prosperity and the construction of a new country, based on a democratic constitution, a social state based on fundamental rights enshrined in civil and political rights, a climate of political peace and elections to ensure the Republic's fundamental political choices and an opening process for Europe and the world, capable of breaking decades of isolation. It is therefore important, without revisionism, without the will to create artificial fractures, and there is much overcome, and without any retaliation or provocation, to abandon the politicization of history, leaving for the judgment of social sciences what they are responsible for, and for the activity of a sovereign body such as the Assembly of the Republic not that which in the past opposed us, but rather what unites us as Portuguese in the present and in the future: the democratic values of April 1974 and its realization on the day-to-day of parliamentary and governmental work. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes all who, in the resistance to dictatorship, in the realization of 25 April 1974 and in the process of building the constitutional institutions, before and after the approval of the Constitution, contributed to the establishment of the democratic regime in Portugal ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u187	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 164 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings on 25 November — International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women ( PSD, PS and CDS-PP ). I would ask Secretary Pedro Alves to read the above vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In 1999 the United Nations General Assembly designated 25 November as the International Day for the Elimination of All Forms of Violence against Women and invited governments, international organizations and non-governmental organizations to sign this day. On this date, it is intended to alert and sensitize society to violence against women in its various forms. According to international statistics, every ten minutes a woman is murdered by a man who is or has already been his companion. In Europe, one in three women has already been victims of some form of gender-based violence during their lifetime. In Portugal 85% of victims of domestic violence are women, covering victims of all conditions and all social and economic strata. on this day, we reaffirm our commitment to the human rights of women, in order to put an end to these intolerable crimes, whether it is the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war, domestic violence, trafficking in women for the purposes of labour or sexual exploitation, so-called ‘honor crimes’ or female genital mutilation. Thus, taking into account the fundamental values of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, in respect of the principle of equality of citizens and citizens vis-à-vis their rights freedoms and guarantees, including the right to life and physical and moral integrity of human beings, Members of Parliament and the Members of the undersigned shall welcome the date on which the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women is signed".
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-29.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[The vote was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 545 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to New York ( President of the HR ). [[The vote was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on the proposal for a law No 31 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrates a transitional scheme applicable to IRS income declarations for 2015, which allows the option for joint taxation in declarations delivered outside the statutory deadlines. [[The vote was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary session will be held tomorrow, 30 a.m. at 10 a.m. and 30 minutes, having as a working order the Solemn Good-Sales Session to His Majestys the Kings of Spain and invited entities. It is also necessary to announce that the next plenary session will take place on Tuesday, 6 December, at 3 p.m. and will have as its first item on the agenda an actual debate under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, required by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party on waste imported from Italy to Setúbal. Secondly, the debate required by the Government on forest reform will take place. Thirdly, the projects of lein.o 341 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed together in general. ( a ) — Amendments to the Statute of the Public Manager and to the legal systems of the business sector of the State and the local business sector ( PSD ), 342 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Imposing transparency duties to the administrators of the General Deposit Box and amending the Statute of the Public Manager ( PSD ), 351 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the Statute of the Public Manager, repealing the exemption scheme set up by Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, and clarifying the scope of their reporting obligations ( CDS-PP ) and 352 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Public Manager, repealing the exemption scheme established by Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, and establishing remuneration limits ( CDS-PP ). Fourthly, the projects of lein.o 345 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed in general. ( a ) — Promotes the urgent regulation of parental responsibilities and the allocation of food in situations of domestic violence and the application of coercion or ancillary penalty measures involving distance between parents ( PS ), 327 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the General Rules of the Civil Protection Procedure ( approved by Law No 141 / 2015, 8 September and the second amendment to Law No 75 / 98 of 19 November ) ( BE ), 350 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo, extending the period of protection up to 25 years ( Third amendment to the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo, approved by Law No 147 / 99 of 1 September, as amended by Laws No 142 / 2015 of 8 September and No 31 / 2003 of 22 August ) ( PCP ) ; 353 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Affirms the need for urgent regulation of parental responsibilities in situations of domestic violence ( NAP) in conjunction with draft resolution No 558 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the performance of judicial support in the context of domestic violence crimes and regulation of parental responsibilities and verify the need for the establishment of a multidisciplinary team to support the judicial system ( NAP ). Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 09 minutes.]]
