ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries. As there is no file, we will immediately enter the first item on the agenda, with the joint discussion and generality of lein. 15 / XIII projects ( 1. ( a ) — establishes the principle of non- privatization of the water sector by amending Law No 58 / 2005 of 29 December ( Approving the Water Law ), with amendments introduced by Decree-Law No 60 / 2012 of 14 March 2012 and Decree-Law No 130 / 2012 of 22 June ( The Greens ) and 116 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Prevents the mercantilization of public water supply, waste water sanitation and urban solid waste management ( CFP ). To present the Green Bill, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens represent today in the Assembly of the Republic a draft law aimed at making an amendment to the water framework law to include a new principle, the principle of non- privatization of the water sector. We all know that water is fundamental to human life and all other forms of life. Being essential, no one can rule out it. And this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it makes this sector deeply desirable for private business. And what the Greens say is that water is a right, it is not a commodity, and in this sense it is essential that public water management be ensured and contrary to private water management. Why? Because this management must be done according to the needs of the populations, the need for the territory, the need for development rather than the need to guarantee the profits of companies. In other words, it should not be managed according to the interests of companies but rather according to the interests of the country and the populations. That's right, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, since the 1990s, steps have gradually been taken to open up the water sector to the private sector, in particular with various restructurings of the water sector that have been taking place. in the past legislation, The Greens understood that it was time, once and for all, to devote to the law what could not be achieved, which was the privatization of the water sector. Unfortunately, this project was plunged by PSD, CDS and PS. We are, in this legislature, re-presenting the project, with a work previously done. in the common position that we signed with the Socialist Party, The Greens made a foothold on the matter of non- privatization of water, and the Socialist Party accepted. in this case, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are available to improve the text of our draft law, but what we really want is that the principle is enshrined in national legislation. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u3	To present the PCP bill, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Life, as we know it, does not exist without water. And it is the fact that no one can live without water and there can be development without water that makes it so tempting and so desirable for the private sector, which sees in this finite resource an infinite source of profit. But when we talk about water, we talk about fundamental rights, we talk about human rights, as the UN has recognized in a resolution of the Human Rights Council. Thus, things must be made clear: privatizing water is privatizing a fundamental right, and this can only be regarded as unacceptable. in our country, since 1993 that has walked far towards privatization, with the approval of a set of laws that allow greater participation of private entities in the management of public water services and urban solid waste. They'll say the gentlemen. Right-wing Members starting from a wrong assumption that granting, outsourcing or public-private partnership contract is not the same as privatizing, that management is that it can count on private participation, and that is not the same as privatizing. Something like that...! It is only that the experiences of this outside world reveal that, in fact, this is privatization and it is really privatization that we are talking about here. And contrary to what you say, that private management is panacea and that everything will do better, the truth is that the world movement of water remunicipalization grows from day to day. Between March 2000 and March 2015 there were 235 cases of water remunicipalization in 37 countries, with an impact on the life of 100 million people, and these cases are mainly concentrated in developed countries, imagine! And why? — there is, then, a question to be asked. This is because, in many cases, this was the answer to the false promises of the private or their representatives to act in the political sphere that the people would always be ahead of profit. Things that didn't happen, of course! Because there is no such as aseptic, non-ideological capitalism and only interested in the correct technical management of things, as you try to paint there. And see, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what has happened in the United Kingdom — it is news of January 2016 — where a report revealed that private water companies made more than 1 million pounds with prices, unjustified and scandalously high. The poorest were the poorest, who saw the annual water weight in relation to their incomes, from 2, 3 % to 5, 3 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the water is everyone's! When it comes to safeguarding a right, it cannot be counted on the kindness or complacency of those who have, above all, objectives focused on obtaining profit and distributing dividends between shareholders. Sooner or later, the privatization or the provision of public water, sanitation or solid urban waste will lead to the degradation of the quality of services, the reduction of investment, will aggravate asymmetries in access and, along the way, will attack workers' rights and increase user prices. The CFP argues that water is a vital asset, with a social and cultural value without price, indispensable for all, so it must be managed by everyone. That is, it should be managed only by public entities, in the logic of a public service that responds to the interests of all and not only that of some. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u5	For an intervention, Mr Jorge Duarte Costa of the Block of the Left has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the years, the privatization of the largest Portuguese company of fully public capital, Waters of Portugal, returns repeatedly to the political agenda. It was from the approval of the Water Law in 2005 that the control of the vast majority of water and sanitation services began to move to the public limited companies of the Water Group of Portugal, through the granting of multi-municipal systems. Multinationals such as Lyonnaise des Eaux or Veolia were already long ago in Portugal and, as a rule, in municipalities with services granted, this was an increase in the prices charged to the authorities, with sometimes gross impacts on the invoices of the municipalities. In 2013 there were already 38 municipalities with private concessions, which cover one quarter of the Portuguese population and are in the hands of Groups such as DST / ABB, Mota-Engil, Sacyr and Fierrocarile Spaniards and the Chinese State Company Waters of Beijing, which controls the concessions of Valongo, Paredes, Mafra and Ourem. in all, almost 1, 5 million consumers are supplied by Spanish and Chinese companies. The Memorandum with the troika strengthened the restructuring of the sector as a strategy. Steps Coelho had included water privatization in the PSD electoral program in 2011, but until the end of its term of office only sold the subsidiary EGF ( General Development Company ), the most profitable in favour of Mota-Engil. The full privatization of the Waters of Portugal would only come after the restructuring, which was approved last April, in the plans of the right. a penalty, the Coelho Pass Government wanted to impose the aggregation of 19 multi-municipal systems in five regional companies, open to the participation of private capital and subject to a new tariff regulation. Even last April, the then Minister of the Environment, Jorge Moreira da Silva, did not hide that « a very large majority of the population will face tariff increases ». By the time the authorities, expelled from management, were reduced to payers of these multi-municipal systems of the Waters of Portugal Group. As is customary, with sub-concessions, there would be, in addition to the increase in rates, the increase in inefficiencies and the degradation of services. The forced imposition of the new aggregated entities was, and I quote, « a real confiscation of municipal goods of public interest », as the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities called it. Many authorities and communities today celebrate the fall of the right-wing government as an opportunity to complete the water privatization cycle. The experience is done and, even if incomplete, it has already made enough damage. That is why it is appropriate to schedule today. The Block always fought for public water. People know that they count on us in this battle and that we will use all the instruments at our disposal, from social action to legislative initiation or the local referendum. There is a large social majority for public water and the strength of democracy will prevent privatization. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u7	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Helena Freitas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The ecological balance of ecosystems is precious for the preservation and sustainability of water resources. All life on earth depends on the water and the vitality of watercourses, a primary condition that makes water a common good, in the full sense of expression. Guaranteeing water with quality and accessible to all is a principle that should guide public policies. We know that the supply of water of lower quality and inadequate health conditions end up reflecting negatively on food security and on the living conditions of many families. We also know that the tariff system is imperfect and that support and distribution infrastructures are still lacking. The Socialist Party's programme assumes as one of the objectives the exploitation and public management of water, including multi-municipal systems for public water supply and sanitation of waste and urban water, recognizing that these are essential essential needs that need to be guaranteed. The achievement of these objectives, for the benefit of the citizens and the safeguarding of the public interest, will be: to reverse the mergers of water companies imposed on municipalities; to integrate the urban cycle of water, in the sense of a link between the supply of water and drainage networks; to renegotiate, together with the authorities, the first-generation concession contracts concluded over the last few decades, at high and low, whose performance is not satisfactory; to promote a social tariff of water, with attention to family aggregates with lower incomes; to configure and make effective a guarantee of minimum services, considered essential to human dignity, in relation to access to certain basic services or of general interest, such as water, sanitation, waste collection, among others. in this particular circumstance of urgency in the river Tejo, I stress the need for a new policy for the protection and sustainability of international rivers and the application of the Luso-Spanish Convention. It says the popular saying that « from Spain neither good winds nor good marriages», in a historical allusion to failed alliances between the crowns of Spain and Portugal, which often compromised national independence. We do not want to say « neither good winds, nor good waters», which would mean another loss of independence, but of essential resources that we have to safeguard. The European Water Directive requires shared management of international rivers and the Luso-Spanish Convention establishes a set of information requirements between the two Iberian countries and even specific flows that must be shared. We cannot continue to fall asleep on this subject, and it is essential to restore dialogue and ensure that the quality objectives and rules set by the parties are met. The evidence contradicts the goodness of silences, as has been seen dramatically in the current situation of the river Tejo. The initiatives proposed by the Greens and the CFP generally come to the meeting of the government's programme agenda, by maintaining in the public sector high water services (captation, treatment and lifting ), by reverting the merger process, by reformulating systems in its structure and by seeking to develop new smaller systems, with fewer losses and energy gains, and respecting the autonomy of the authorities in the decision on municipal systems. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u9	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for us, CDS, matters relating to water supply, water supply, sanitation and urban solid waste management must be based on three pillars: the country's social and territorial cohesion, economic and financial sustainability and environmental protection. From 1993 to today, a path of progress and improvement has been pursued in these areas — the merit of the PSD governments, the CDS and the Socialist Party as well, which have always known how to pursue continued policies without prejudice to the changes in government, which has led to a remarkable development in the sector. Portugal currently has one of the best water supply systems in the world and which for everyone is so recognized. Thus, as far as water supply is concerned, this progress has resulted in almost all of the national territory, but all of this effort, about 20 years old, has brought a major economic and financial imbalance in the various systems that have been created. For this reason, arriving in 2013, the Water Group of Portugal, which owned 42 companies, had accumulated some EUR 3000 million in debt and it was urgent to reform the sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u11	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u12	Thus, a restructuring of the sector was carried out, creating more equitable and scaled multi-municipal systems, which allowed for greater harmonization of water tariffs in Portugal, as there were five tariffs instead of the previous 11 tariffs that existed and balancing price asymmetries between the interior and the coast. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the legislative initiatives that the Communist Party and the Greens present to us today are no more than a recycling of the bills that they have already presented in the previous legislation,... [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] ... being that, signs of the times, in the case of the PCP bill, the Mrs. Communist Members made a small change in their explanatory statement, removing from this the criticisms they made on the previous initiative to the governments of the Socialist Party, Eng. Guterres and José Socrates. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u13	Convicts, but not so much! [[PCP protests.]] On the other hand, it will also be interesting to see how the Socialist Party will vote on these two diplomas. It is that in the previous legislature these same diplomas were rejected with the votes against the CDS, the PSD and the Socialist Party. We will now see whether the Socialist Party honours its history, its merit and its convictions of 20 years, or whether, on the contrary, it will give in to radicalism as a way to remain dusty. In this regard, I quote the words of Mr. Pedro Farmhouse, on behalf of the Socialist Party, in January 2013 at this same plenary session. I would like to quote: « As regards the ban on private companies' access to economic activities of public water, sanitation, waste water and urban solid waste management, we consider it to be excessive until private management practices do not necessarily affect the public interest ». They were words spoken here by the representative of the Socialist Party in January 2013. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u14	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u15	As I said, we now look forward with curiosity to the meaning of the PS vote in this period of management. [[PCP protests.]] Mr President, I conclude by saying that the CDS will always say 'present' when it is called upon to participate in reforms that improve the accessibility and quality of essential public services to be provided to people who pay attention to their own sustainability, and that is certainly not what we are dealing with here today. Finally, Mr. President, just because it's important, and I'll take 10 seconds,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u16	Ten seconds!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u17	...I would like to highlight the important difference between granting and privatizing. The CDS is not in favour...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u18	It's been 10 seconds, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u19	... the privatization of these sectors, i.e. the loss of ownership by the State, but it is in favour of granting these services where territorial, social cohesion and financial sustainability and environmental protection are better ensured by private management. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u20	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Privatisation/nationalisation—that is how the left sees this reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u22	Abrenunciation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u23	The CFP aims to nationalise the waste sector — a privatization that has been very debated and duly justified in this House very recently — and also even seeks to nationalise the management of low water, in contrast to, in fact, the will of the municipalities and the concessions that they themselves have made. The Greens Ecological Party already seeks not to privatize water, when good water, by current law, can no longer be privatized, as you well know. Confused, it seems to me deliberately... [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, I have listened to her very carefully, and she will certainly be able to answer me later. As I was saying, they deliberately confuse the good water with the management of this good, and this can be either public or sub-concessional, and also make considerations incomprehensible to the restructuring of the sector carried out by the previous Government. Moreover, the former Government did, yes, take the challenge of proving that a public asset can have sustainable management and therefore be safe from any intention of privatization. The gentlemen. Members know well that the sustainability of the water sector in Portugal is at risk, as well as all the progress achieved over the decades, and they know - not because the previous government has told you but because, in this House, we and you, all together, have made a deep diagnosis, with hearings to various entities, and that was the obvious conclusion to which we arrived. The former government, between bankruptcy, privatization and restructuring, opted for restructuring,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u24	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u25	... pointing to its economic-financial sustainability and looking at very important aspects, such as territorial cohesion and environmental protection. And the truth is, being able to privatize, he didn't. Perhaps your problem is another, your problem is that the government that you support does not offer you the same assurances. And if so, I can already understand,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u26	Come on! You got it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u27	... since we all know that the only strategic asset that was privatized in the water sector in Portugal was Aquapor, which was privatized by a government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u28	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u30	If they are concerned about the Socialist Party's government action, it is already perfectly understandable, because, who does not restructure, actually creates effective conditions for future privatization. There are the real advocates of privatization! As we have a Prime Minister who still thinks he is President of the House — in fact, in the debates until he deals with his predecessor by Prime Minister — as we have an Environment Minister who still thinks he is President of Port Waters and who affords himself the luxury of making a unilateral reversal of a restructuring, which was the saving table of such a fundamental sector,... [[Protests by BE member Jorge Duarte Costa and the Member of the Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] ... above the will of some municipalities to the will of the country and to the national interest (and remember that they were only 29, in 200, the municipalities involved ), and as we have a minister who goes to the newspapers to say that he will revert, it is certain that the shortage of exploitation of high water supply systems will have to be resolved, but does not say how he will do it, nor does he discuss the issue before, is therefore a minister who will have to explain himself and, therefore, the PSD Members today submitted a request to the Minister to come here to explain himself in all these situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u32	It has already exceeded your time, Mr Bruno Coimbra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u33	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in this pseudo-governmental fury of the'res' — of retreats, of retreats, of the rewind — which are retreats that cause delays, it is not enough to overthrow what is being done, it is necessary to know what one wants to build next. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u34	For a second intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is curious that we are watching today, for it seems that the right is a macabre clique that, instead of twisting for the ball player, who, in this case, is the public service, play, and play well, is twisting so that he plays badly and gets injured.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u36	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u37	Perhaps, what you want is for your hand player to enter the field, which is the private service! That's your problem! [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we all agree on the need for water to be in the public domain, then why don't we put this in law? Oh, my God! What's the problem with doing that? Oh, my God! It is because, perhaps, if we do not turn from the intentions to the law and the hell of good intentions is full, that means that they want to leave the door open for, at the first opportunity, they can move on to the question of the privatization of water seriously. That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u38	Speak of water privatization in Setúbal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u39	Setubal? Oh, my God! Don't be a liar, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u40	Setubal? Oh, my God! You have to be serious, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u41	You've outlived your time, Your Honor. Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u42	I shall end, Mr President, by saying one last word: Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, be serious when he talks about Setúbal, because we did not vote in favour of privatization, but you voted in favour! That is the point. You voted in favour of water privatization. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u43	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u44	Mr. President and Mr. Members, even in distance and even to the microphone, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira always presents a set of lies that is not good for him. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Are you, perhaps, insinuating or affirming that the water in Setúbal was privatized by the management of the CDU? Oh, my God! Mr. Deputies, be ashamed! You have voted in favour! Do you remember?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u46	We voted against! Shame on you, Mr. Deputy! Setubal is just a very concrete example of how the privatization of water is extremely negative and you have contributed to this! [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] And that is what we do not want to happen at national level!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u47	It was 11 years of absolute majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u48	But you don't lie to be right when you know you're wrong. Do this over and over and you're starting to get a little upset, Mr! [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u49	Well, let's see one thing: the PSD and CDS gentlemen always say « But we don't want to privatize the water». Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, do not worry because we are going to put in the text of the law the expression 'public management', so that you may rest. That's what they want, that's what's gonna stay there! And then you will certainly vote in favour. [[PSD protests.]] You say: 'We do not want to privatize the water sector'. But why don't you want to put that in the law? Oh, my God! Why don't you want to put public water management in the law? Oh, my God! Why does that make such an impression on you? Oh, my God! For this is precisely the guarantee that no government will remember, from here to the future, to mark this country by a process of privatization of water or by a process of private water management. in the past legislature, they said: "Don't worry, we don't want to go that way," but they never wanted to put that in the law, and it's this step that is going to take today. And the Greens are proud, in the common position, that we have signed with the Socialist Party, to have entered this matter, black and white, as an agreement that should be implemented in this legislature, and we believe that the country will win with it, in the present and in the future. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PCP and the BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u50	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the Bureau will reflect, at the end of the week, on whether to « upset» is a parliamentary verb. [[Laughing.]] Mrs. Members, completed the debate of the projects of lein.o 15 and 116 / XIII ( 1. a ), we move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists of the joint discussion and the generality of the projects of lein.o 120 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — The fourth amendment is made to the Advertising Code, approved by Decree-Law No 330 / 90 of 23 October, imposing restrictions on advertising to minors of certain foodstuffs and beverages ( PS ), 118 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulation of the advertising of food products for children and young people ( PAN) and 123 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates advertising to food products addressed to children and young people by amending the Advertising Code ( The Greens ). To present the PS bill, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party takes up, in this Parliament, a topic which has already been addressed in the previous legislature and which has allowed approval not only in general of these initiatives, but also the establishment of a working group and the holding of an extended debate with the actors of the various sectors covered by the measure. In fact, what is intended, in the first line, is to respond to the real problem that we have about the incidence of overweight and childhood obesity among us. There are 30 % Portuguese children to present overweight rates today that are not compatible with a healthy diet and life and more than 20 % are obese. In fact, in view of the numbers that the world health organization has been revealing, as to the future incidence of other diseases caused precisely by inadequate eating habits and the incidence of overweight and obesity in younger ages, it is essential that we take measures to guide and train decision-making in this area. The history of hearings was particularly enriching for parliamentary work. We have heard the directly affected sectors, such as the press and advertising, we have heard the agri-food producers, we have heard the protection of consumers, we have heard the nutrition specialists, who have brought us irreplaceable elements, to frame this debate. We also had an opportunity to discuss whether self-regulation by the sector itself would be more or less advantageous than the legislative initiative we discussed. In fact, there are today, at the initiative of many of those who are the advertisers and those who are the companies that advertise in the sector, already commitments to limit advertising in certain segments, in certain target audiences, which in some situations already cover almost 60 % of all advertising investment. in our perspective, this hearing and these works did not distance us from the objective of altering the Advertising Code. That is, if self-regulation is welcome, it also seems to us that it is not enough to cover the whole advertising market. And if these companies have in fact given good examples and have self-connected themselves to limits, it seems to us that they must also in some way be rewarded and work in a context in which the whole sector is, at the same time, linked to the same rules. We don't intend to invent the wheel. Much of the proposals that are drawn up in this bill are responses that other legal orders, that other systems, have finally adopted, with a view to minimizing the negative effects that advertising may have on minors in relation to products with high salt, fat and sugar content. Therefore, what we want is to regulate advertising in publications addressed to young people. In other words, we intend to limit advertising within 30 minutes before and after programmes for the children's public; also in television programmes whenever, looking at the audience share, it is found that it is higher by 20 % the audience of a public under 12 years of age, applying precisely those same measures; and then having objective criteria in the setting of advertising. As we said, it was a work that resulted from hearings and the participation of civil society. We maintain complete openness to re-edit this extended process and also to accommodate the other solutions if, in the context of the parliamentary debate, they appear better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u52	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, dear citizens: Healthy eating habits involve immediate health problems and, in the long term, proof of this is the growth of chronic non-communicable diseases in our country. About 1 million Portuguese people have diabetes and 2 million suffer from pre-diabetes, and 25% of all hospital admissions are caused by this disease, representing an annual cost equivalent to 1 % of GDP. Cardiovascular diseases are responsible for at least 34% of deaths in the Portuguese population. In Portugal more than 50 % of adults are overweight — about 1 million obese adults and 3 million pre-obese adults. Portugal is among the countries of Europe with the highest number of children affected by obesity: 33 % of children between 2 and 12 years of age are overweight, of which 17 % are obese. Obesity represents 4, 5 % of health expenses. In times of crisis, food-related prevention strategies are an effective and inexpensive way to avoid disease and reduce public health burdens. In fact, by changing eating habits we are working in the field of prevention and improving the health of Portuguese people, also contributing to reducing public spending and mitigating negative economic impacts. Diseases developed through an unhealthy diet represent high burdens for both individuals and health systems. Marketing should continue its purpose without, however, contributing to exposing highly harmful diseases to our health and, consequently, to our economy. Spots and advertising films appeal to the consumption of foods poor in nutrients, but rich in ingredients harmful to health, such as saturated fat, trans fats, added sugars, salt, among others, all associated with the development of chronic non-communicable diseases. We must not, nor can we, stimulate the consumption of products which are clearly negative to the health of Portuguese people, especially children and young citizens, who are still starting their lives and defining behaviours, particularly when decisions are taken by companies, whose interests are purely economic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u54	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor to present the Green Bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens represent today in the Assembly of the Republic a bill that regulates advertising to food products addressed to children and young people, thus amending the Advertising Code. That's right, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is true that this matter has already been discussed in the past legislature, that a specialized work has already been done, which, in my view, must be pointed out here, has already been heard a number of entities, but, at the end of the legislature, the process has expired and it was essential to resume at the beginning of this legislation, in order to bring it to a good end. The Greens therefore intend to contribute through the re-presentation of their bill. The truth is that advertising aims to bring its recipients, precisely, to consumption and is well directed to the target audience. There is therefore targeted advertising specifically to children and young people, particularly with regard to food products, often surrounding the image of these food products with other accessory products, such as toys, games, out there, in order to lead the child to want both that food product, thereby increasing consumption. It happens, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that many of the food products that are the subject of this advertising have a very high content of fat, sugar and salt, developing in the child a eating habit for these products. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must also look at the country, the reality and the society we have, and the truth is that it is today, supermania, characterized, especially in the young public, by excess weight, by obesity, with all the consequences we know and which are perfectly evidenced, from the medical and scientific point of view, such as, for example, diabetes or cardiovascular diseases. So we have the responsibility to act in a preventive sense. If it is true that there is an individual and family responsibility here, there is also a responsibility of all sectors of society and also, from a political point of view, of political actors, in order to contribute to this prevention. And in this sense, the Greens are precisely presenting a bill that prohibits the advertising of certain food products—just those that contain this high salt, fat and sugar—with the exception of, of course, advertising that promotes healthy eating habits in accordance with the recommendations that we believe should be stipulated by the Directorate-General for Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u56	Mr Jorge Campos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the legislative initiatives of the Socialist Party, the Greens and the PAN, and by saying that the Left Block Parliamentary Group accompanies the concerns expressed in these initiatives. It is obvious that today it is relatively consensual in Portuguese society that we are facing a situation where public health is at an obvious risk. And it is clear that, in this regard, we will not have great differences, so good eating habits are necessary. But I would like to introduce here another element, which, by not moving away from the essence of these projects, which is the amendment of the Advertising Code, leads us or allows us to address these problems in a more transversal way, as, moreover, is also evident in the legislative initiatives that have come to us. There is a study by an American doctor at Harvard University's School of Medicine, Susan Linn, entitled Children of the Child Absorbing Child, who realizes that a very significant part of family expenses are done according to what children end up imposing. And, in the case of the United States, these expenses amount to $600 billion. We also know that children, in general, are at a stage of biopsychological development that does not allow them to understand an advertising message, decoding it. The question I would like to introduce is complementary to those presented to us in the projects. in the same way that advertising induces consumption and leads children to consume calories excessively—make idea of a cinema session where the programming itself was altered according to the children's audience, allowing them to ingest all those exorbitant amounts of calories in popcorn and soft drinks—the question that arises is what the school does with advertising and how it works so that students can generally deal with it. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a message has always two contents, it has a manifest content and it has a latent content, and we must ask ourselves - and there is, at the initiative of the Socialist Party, for example, a measure to remove the publicity 500 meters from the school perimeter - about what is being done in schools in order to solve this problem of the child's relationship with advertising. Therefore, an image and an advertising message have two contents, one manifesto and one latent, and manifesto content is what is there and latent content is not immediately evident, but obviously induces behaviors.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u58	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u59	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is the kind of concern that, in our view, it is important to introduce in this debate the burden of dealing with these problems not only with entities most directly related to the regulation of advertising but also with the educational authorities themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u60	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u61	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, in any case, it is obvious that these bills deserve our full agreement. [[Congratulations from BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u62	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills of the PS, The Greens and the NAP that we now discuss, on advertising to products with high sugar, salt and fat levels, are based on concern about the increasing levels of obesity found in the Portuguese population and, in particular, in childhood obesity, which in most cases will remain as obesity in adults. As the proponents say, this matter had already been discussed in the previous legislation and, in this discussion, the CFP Parliamentary Group accompanied the drafts, voting on them favourably. Obesity will result in multiple factors and have serious consequences, either individually or collectively, including increased morbidity, personal suffering and health costs. The projects point out as a line of work the limitation of advertising, i.e., the use of children for the consumption of foods with high sugar and fat levels. This is an important perspective of the problem, since fierce competition and the market economy are improving the creation of needs to sell what we do not need, and it is therefore important to place limitations on it. But I would like to address here, in this discussion, other causes that contribute to this increase in obesity. First, poverty emerges as a preponderant element of obesity. If in the past fat was synonymous with wealth, to eat much, in contrast to the poor who did not have the resources to feed properly, today fat is related to poor food due to economic insufficiency to buy quality and healthy products. The cheapest products are normally processed foods with higher fat, salt and sugar levels. Another relational cause is linked to the annulment of a philosophy of disease prevention and health promotion for the benefit of a more curative and less preventive approach. The absence of a policy of health promotion in general and, in particular, the shortage of intervention strategies aimed at children and young people focused on the adoption of a healthy diet, compete, in the perspective of the CFP, in order to increase the problem of obesity. A final element of the cause of obesity, particularly children, is not disconnected from the framework of the teaching system in which there is a gradual abandonment of the perspective of integral education of the individual and in which the components of artistic education, physical education and well-being are lowered for the benefit of the ratios of competitiveness and the search for individual successes. We want to say with this that obesity in general and child obesity in particular are also the reflection of political options, namely the choice of concentration of wealth, the impoverishment of Portuguese and the attack on the National Health Service and the inclusive public school and for all. Thus, the CFP monitors measures to combat childhood obesity and will therefore vote favourably for the bills currently under discussion and will also engage in the recovery of Portuguese rights and incomes and in the defence of the social functions of the State, particularly in the areas of health, education and social protection. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u64	Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is customary to say that, apart from the obvious and different political and ideological positions, here or there, in certain matters, that the various parliamentary groups that make up this House have about certain matters in particular, it should always be up to politics and politicians to solve or find solutions to the problems that affect our society. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today, we analyze three legislative initiatives that discuss, in the specific case, a problem that affects our society and, in my view, we are discussing projects that deal with this problem in the best possible way, i.e. on the basis of the discussion of public health and on the basis of the discussion of a strategy for the prevention of diseases that strikes our society. I also recall that these initiatives, as has already been said in this House, come in the path of a broad debate which was generated in the previous legislature and which was based on some initiatives of the PSD Parliamentary Group dealing in particular with the fight against diabetes and childhood obesity. at the time, these bills contained restrictions, in particular on the sale of fast food in school, on the offer of toast containing toys or images with children's celebrities intended for young people or children, and also restrictions on advertising on television, at a time normally viewed by Portuguese youth, which involved foods with high sugar content, salt or fat. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the initiatives that are being appreciated, and for us, the PSD Parliamentary Group, they are all well-considered and are therefore valid initiatives that deserve our appreciation. in the case of the NAP and the Greens initiatives, you could consider that they are somewhat ambitious, that is, in our view, the NAP leaves out the restrictions on the marketing of meals with a offer of toasts or toys or such offer or reference to children's images or celebrities, and in the case of the Greens the initiative does not refer to advertising to the marketing of beverages. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of the Socialist Party initiative, we consider it more complete, however, the ban on advertising less than 500 m — why not 200 m and why not 100 m? — of school institutions, it seems to us, in this very specific context, a little too abusive and restrictive. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will maintain our enthusiasm in the discussion of this subject and, of course, in the field of expertise, we will meet there to also make our contribution to the path we have done in the previous legislature. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u66	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a matter which is not new in this House and which refers to the importance of public policies in the field of health and therefore, as in the past, the CDS accompanies them with all interest. It is, in fact, worrying about the number of Portuguese children who are overweight and obese, but we also know that the main cause of this problem is life habits, essentially sedentaryism and food. We believe, therefore, that in this matter all that is spent on prevention is an investment in health. with regard to the bills here, there are some differences that we intend to highlight: the initiatives of The Greens and the NAP focus only on the prohibitive and punitive aspect, although the Greens project limits advertising to the generality of food and makes no reference to beverages or school premises, while the NAP diploma aims to limit advertising only to products rich in sugar, fat and sodium, but also to school premises and other places attended by children and young people. The Socialist Party project is more comprehensive. It also has the punitive issues referred to above, but prohibits « advertising and commercial communications in any event in which minors participate, including sports activities. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, I ask you to evaluate this proposal well, because the vast majority, if not all, of youth sports clubs depend on sponsorships to survive and, often, these sponsorships are food brands and also food supplements for sportsmen, who are energy foods. This PS bill, as it is, may have the effect exactly opposite to what is intended and end with many sporting events and even with some modalities, including with school sports, unless you find any money in the State Budget to fund these clubs or tell families that they have to bear all the cost with the modalities practiced by their children. The CDS advocates a more pedagogical, awareness-raising and regulatory approach, which is also reflected in the articulation of the diploma when it states that "advertising should be clear and objective and not relate the consumption of the product to potential health benefits", for example. We understand that families cannot be irresponsible and that the State cannot replace families. This conviction is corroborated by the findings of a study carried out by the Institute of Public Health of the University of Porto, made in children of pre-school age and which is referred to in the report of the National Programme for the Promotion of Healthy Food, 2014. This study concluded in particular: that more than half of children consume soft drinks and nectar daily; that 99 % of children have a sodium intake above the maximum tolerated level; that 65 % of children consume cakes and sweets at least once daily. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about pre-school-age children, four-year-olds! Thus, their consumption habits will certainly not be influenced by advertising, which refers us to the importance of the awareness, training and food education of the family in the first instance. We are therefore available to work on these projects in the field of expertise. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u68	For a second speech, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank all the comments and suggestions referred to in the debate and reiterate our total willingness to work in the field of expertise in order to improve these legislative proposals. In fact, in terms of the area of limitation of the surrounding educational establishments, it is a matter that we can review and adapt to the local reality of each site, and the main objective is to ensure that advertising does not have the characteristics we find today. in our perspective, it is also fundamental, as Mr Jorge Campos said, that we can introduce into the curricula, for example in the discipline of Education for Citizenship, the subject on how to read advertising and give children tools to be able to perceive the message transmitted and not to be negatively influenced by a message that can sometimes try to be manipulative. As a final note, I would like to say that, despite being sensitive, I understand the question that has been raised regarding sporting events and sponsorships, but it still seems to us that, in certain circumstances, we must in fact draw the line on the sand with some relatively clear characteristics, because sponsoring sporting activities that are promoting healthy lifestyles and then, at the same time, continue to allow advertising to foods or beverages with very high sugar levels, very saturated fries with a tremendous load of salt, this is potentially contradictory. I do not say that Mrs Patrícia Fonseca is right, i.e. that there is no need to take account of the need not to harm the sporting activity that may eventually depend on some kind of sponsorship, but what is true is that the range of food and beverage products that may eventually be placed in the places where these events take place may be more refined than what we currently have. So, once again, we express our complete willingness to, with the constructive spirit with which we were here this morning, achieve a regime that protects children and which, at the same time, ensures that we will not harm neither the advertising sector nor the agri-food sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u70	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further requests for a word, the debate on this point is closed. The Secretary will take note of an initiative she has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u71	Mr. President and Mr. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted, draft resolution No 138 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — improving the quality of service provided by the Centre Hospitalar do Médio Tejo ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u72	Mrs. Members, the next item on the agenda is the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 21 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures on academic beaches ( BE), 122 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen measures on academic practice ( CDS-PP ) and 124 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to the Government in the context of academic practice ( PS ). To present the diploma of the Block of Left, Mr. Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since 2008 the Left Block has presented and defended here in the Assembly of the Republic, mechanisms that combat violence and abuse in academic practice. This debate and this issue are not new, either in Parliament or out there, in colleges, and the fact is that today it is consensual in Portuguese society to be urgently caught up with this scourge, regardless of the more or less adopted views of these practices. in recent years, cases of violence associated with the beaches, from north to south of the country, and some of these abuses—heavy jokes, say some—reported on newspapers pages, allowed for visibility to a reality that goes far beyond known cases and in court. We don't need to go back too long. In 2014 a group of students died in Braga in beach activities; the case of Meco is escapulous. These cases shocked the country and the academic community. And if it is true that there is a Criminal Code in Portugal, it is also true that if there are no complaints mechanisms, then these situations are not in practice applicable to the Criminal Code. The praxe cannot be an interruption to the rule of law. And, therefore, we propose here, in this House, once again, a set of measures and mechanisms so that we do not let this scourge continue and get worse. We urgently need a national study on the reality of praxe in Portugal, which is public on a Ministry's website ; we also need information leaflets on praxe, in addition to those that already exist - more information is more democracy; we also need a network of support to students who allow psychological and legal monitoring to those who request support and report violent or unconsensual praxe situations; we also need a formal recommendation aimed at the governing bodies in the sense of these taking on an attitude that does not legitimize violent beaches, either inside or outside the institutions; it is also urgent to convert into an obligation on the part of higher education institutions to conduct reception activities to new students of playful and formative character, ensuring at each school a cabinet to support academic integration. I also welcome the parliamentary initiatives of the PS and the CDS, which we are accompanying and which are also opposed to the idea of fighting the scourge that is now in the arena. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u74	To present the CDS-PP diploma, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is absolutely true that this issue is not new and it is also true that this subject returns to the parliamentary convivio sometimes in the face of unacceptable events and sometimes even in the face of tragic events such as those mentioned here in this debate. It is good for Parliament to take a decision on this matter and to reflect on it, in addition to these tragic events. It is also true that the CDS has a position in this matter, if we want, it even has a doctrine, which is known, which is clear, that it has not changed and that today it has expression again. What is our position on this matter? Firstly, I would like to make it clear that we are neither, nor would it make sense that we were, against tradition, so to speak, or even against the existence of academic rituals of integration of students. We have, moreover, respect for this and have, over time, had several Members at our bench, including today, who are probably linked to the oldest tradition in Portugal, which, as is known, is that of the Coimbra Academy, where many of those who have gone through these benches have formed, therefore knowing this reality. If we are not against tradition, we are radically against any practice that, the pretext of a tradition or academic manifestation, may have degrading, humiliating or sexist content. We are radically against any practice like that. But on the other hand, let us also be clear that it is not up to us, it is not up to our training and our thinking to impose any kind of policy of taste. It is not up to university autonomy, it is not the freedom of students themselves to be Parliament, or to be a parliamentary group, or the government to say « this taste is good», « that taste is bad », « these practices are healthy because they are supposedly modern or progressive and others are unacceptable because they are more traditional ». We do not accept, nor do we want to impose any policy of taste. on the contrary, we believe that it is in the freedom of students that these practices must be based and based. Tradition may not even be what it was, but it is somehow respectable. But if tradition is respectable, it should also be remembered that the first time in the history of Humanity, that someone manifested and banned this kind of tradition happened somewhere in the 14th century, in 1342, I think, when the King of France himself, already at that time, manifested himself against abusive practices in relation to students of the old University of Paris. So this is a very old problem. It is not from evolution, nor is it from antiquity that there are abuses; the existence of abuses has been manifested since the beginning. What we have to say and decide in a vision that aims to be demanding, that it is meant to be rigorous and that it does not want to be a director has to do with five very simple principles. Firstly, I refer to the principle of respecting tradition as a positive form of integration of students into academic life. Secondly, any form of abuse, on the pretext of this tradition, which may degenerate into humiliating, sexist, degrading or otherwise, should be vehemently combated, reinforcing campaigns which, following a proposal made here by the CDS, have already begun to exist, but which can of course go further and be strengthened against the violent practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u76	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u77	I'm done now, Mr. President. Thirdly, best integration practices, networking of the various existing offices should be ensured. Fourthly, and most importantly, the absolute freedom of each student to participate or not should be guaranteed if he does not want to participate in the same practice. Fifth and lastly, not wanting to create a new criminal type, I would like to say that any behaviour that may constitute an illegal or even a crime must have rapid, immediate action mechanisms that prevent such situations from occurring. We follow the concerns of the other parliamentary groups, and we think that, within committee, we will achieve a good solution and good work. So we will make it possible both for the PS project, for the Left Block project. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u78	To present the PS diploma, Mr. Diogo León has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we talk about academic praxes, we deal with a phenomenon with evidenced complexity and which today has a practically transversal implementation to the Portuguese higher education system, but a notoriously heterogeneous practice of institution for institution, faculty for faculty, course for course and, just like all phenomena with this amplitude and diversity, involves multiple realities and, precisely, it is important not to fall into generalizations. Just so that there is no room for dubious interpretations in this debate, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group recalls that we are not talking about vote of greeting or vote of repudiation to this practice, nor are we today expressing partisan positions militantly against or in favour of academic practice. We are reaffirming that the public authorities cannot remain indifferent to the perversions identified by this phenomenon, given what we know today. We know that, when there are inclusive factors, solidarity, promoters of social relations and the integration of the student into the community, in some cases also coexist physically and psychologically violent practices, obviously excessive and unqualified, attacks on individual dignity, which are already a problem recognized in Portuguese society and which is urgently needed to give possible answers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the 21st century in Portugal, the practice with abusive and violent practices cannot be the oldest bullying tradition in our country. With this draft resolution, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are insurging ourselves against this violent practice and against the abusive practice that transcends, consciously or unconsciously, the normal context of social relations between colleagues and friends, without, too, impregnating ourselves of excessive paternalism. Because the praxis, freely organized by students who are at the same time responsible and conscious citizens, who refuse fanatisms of any kind and understand that the play dimension can never justify the personal dignity of whoever it is, have a space in the Portuguese academic tradition, provided they are of voluntary accession and that they are not, under any circumstances, a factor of discrimination or exclusion. Because in a modern and progressive society, and in the context of higher education that is more democratized, internationalized, prestigious and, at the same time, attractive to Portuguese young people, all of us citizens, if on the one hand we have to ensure that students can have their positions, interpretations and opinions on academic practices, on the other hand, regardless of opinions and adherence or not to this practice, we have an obligation to safeguard that all students have the right to be recognised as equal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the resolution we bring here today is clear in the effort that is required of the Government to act and articulate efforts together with higher education institutions and academic associations in the field of prevention of violent and abusive practices, because it is preventing and clarifying students who best ensure the moderation and good sense of all and ultimately their safety and protection. We also propose that the Government, in the spirit of action, monitor and, if necessary, demystify what needs to be demystified, conduct investigations to better understand the experiences experienced by students in higher education. With this draft resolution, we have as our ultimate objective the non-responsibility of absolutely no one and the obligation of all to contribute to the complete elimination of any abusive, degrading and potentially criminal practices that may be practiced and that in no way dignify the beaches and academic tradition in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u80	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I welcome the legislative initiatives we are debating. On this subject, already discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, the position of the Portuguese Communist Party is also known and based on the principle that you cannot confuse any and any action of integration or reception of the new student, more or less inserted into what is commonly called the academic tradition, with violence. There are, yes, phenomena of violence in various ways: social violence, personal, physical or psychological violence mainly about the new student, in this context. But confusing the prax — it is the most commonly used term — with violence does not help to solve this problem either. The projects we are discussing today make precisely this distinction and aim, according to the interpretation of the PCP, to create responses either in the prevention plan or in the response plan for when something goes wrong: prevention in schools that support, create other solutions, alternatives, that in the pedagogical sense eliminate practices that may be violent or humiliating from the initiatives of reception and reception to new students and that, on the other hand, create a line of response for when some student feels violated in their rights or feels humiliated or victim of some manifestation of violence or collective bullying, which is what often ends up characterizing this type of ritual, let's say so. For the PCP the question is simple and will have as a response mechanisms that not only respond to violence in praxe, but to violence in the school context in general and to the creation of a context of good coexistence between students and between the academic community in general, i.e. more means, especially in this case, human resources, so that an effective network that does not put the psychologist at the university headquarters when campuses are spread across various areas of one or another district, which makes it difficult, for example, to access the student to psychological support, for example, or even ultimately to legal support in case of need of a complaint. We share the idea that there is nothing to change in the criminal context, that is, the violent manifestations that are held in the context of academic tradition are crime within or outside the arena. Therefore, what is needed is to create mechanisms for each student to be aware of the process and of what is the limits of legality, as well as to be aware — and we believe that this is also important — of the non-response of saying 'no', because it cannot be accepted that, at the beginning, there is a kind of sub-liminary coercion that imposes on the new student the obligation to participate in those rituals. These rituals are particularly violent because they also often gain the dimension of a ritual of initiation to an elite. Therefore, we are convinced that more means to combat violence in school, more psychology in school context, even in higher education, accompanied by a policy of democratization and of combating hierarchy worship in higher education should also be contributions to eliminating the problems these draft resolutions refer to. The CFP again welcomes these diplomas and is available for the debate between parliamentary groups to also contribute to a text that responds to various concerns. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u82	Mr Duarte Marques has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The matter of praxes goes back to this Parliament after a great discussion that took place in the past legislature, following very serious cases in the field of beach and academic tradition. It is true that we were able to generate a great consensus in this bench and in this Parliament to repudiate what was the stupid plage, the violent plage. The previous government started an alert course, with a campaign aimed at young people, spreading that the praxe should be inclusive and non-violent that and should be voluntary. I think there have been positive results from this campaign. What's important is that all the benches were united in order to denounce and distinguish the acceptable praxe from stupid and violent praxe. Fortunately, the current government and the Socialist Party in this matter follow the same line of the past and, in this case, there is no reversal. Since there is an extended consensus and, in principle, we all agree, I will not choose to discuss each draft resolution in concrete and understand the main differences. I think we need to take advantage of this moment and space to, benefiting from the visibility of the Assembly, make an appeal to young people, remember the young people who are in 1. the college year and also those who are at the end of their secondary course that praxe is not mandatory, that praxe should be integrative and, above all, should start a course in academic life that should be of happiness, construction and future. We cannot confuse the praxis that is done in conjunction with the academic tradition. That's not prax, that's cowardice, that's stupid! The practice, the true academic tradition is the one that is integrative, the one that welcomes the student, the one that integrates the student into a new academic course, the one that welcomes him, the one that creates new friends. We can't confuse those who practice praxe under coronation with a veteran. Don't! The one who practices praxe under coercion is a coward, because a veteran is the one who integrates, is the one who educates, is the one who helps to have a more effective path in academic life. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is also appropriate today to distinguish here the one that is the good place, because this House always comes the bad place, but for this country outside there are many examples of inclusive, supportive practice, done in favour of the community in which we are inserted. And these good examples, of thousands of students in this country out there, are always hidden behind those who are the cowards, the predators. That is why I think this Parliament should take advantage of the opportunity to highlight those who practice true integrative praxe, the praxe that respects tradition and the praxe that is not stupid. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u84	For a second speech, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The truth is, Mr Telmo Correia, that we do not work here with a policy of taste and that is why we agree to work on a policy that combats violence, based on the facts presented to us. The idea that violence is not a taste is totally true, it's a fact and that's why we have to attack, we have to fight. What we propose here, as has already been said, is not to change the law, is to create the possibility that the law will be applied. If there is a Criminal Code and that Code is hardly applied, because there are no complaints instruments, then we want to create these complaints instruments. It is also important, and on taste policy, to comment on one of Mr Duarte Filipe Marques' statements that « praxe should be...». We do not do this reading or this discussion, we have not come here to say what the praxe should or should not be, we have seen here what the mechanisms to combat violence should be, whether it is in the praxe or out of it. And, in the debate that we are working today on the academic arenas, we want to end this violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u86	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u87	It seems also important to me — and I will conclude, Mr President — that the debate on good practice and bad practice opens up exactly with this debate and with these draft resolutions, because, if it is true that we can make judgments of value on who is well-intentioned and who is ill-intentioned, we should also pay attention, for example, to many of the codes of practice that oblige students who do not want to be on the platform to sign statements, with explanatory evidence, to say exactly why they do not want to be there, which is unacceptable. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u88	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the debate on the draft resolutions on academic practice, so we will start the debate on the fourth item on our agenda. First, however, I am going to give the floor to Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Emilia Santos, to give us another initiative that has entered the Bureau. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted, draft resolution No 143 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of territorial coverage and equity in access to screenings of population-based oncological diseases ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u90	Mrs. Members, we will proceed to draft resolutions Nos 53 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent measures for the creation of additional vacancies in the 2015 Medical Hospital Competition ( PCP ), 123 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend the rules and conditions for access to specific training in medicine ( PS ) and 128 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures guaranteeing access to specialized training for all physicians ( BE ). To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the doctors present here, of the 114 who are on the basis of the initiative presented here by the CFP. The Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party today brings the discussion to a legislative initiative that aims to respond and overcome the problem with which 114 young doctors are confronted. On 4 December, the country was confronted with the fact that, for the first time since the medical careers were created, 114 doctors had not been given access to specialized training. This happened because the number of vacancies was less than the number of candidates. It is legitimate for the Portuguese to ask: "But why did this happen? How can there be 114 doctors who have not had access to specialized training, with so much shortage of specialists, from the beginning of general and family medicine? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This situation inevitably stems from the options taken by successive governments, particularly by the former PSD Government / CDS-PP, with regard to health policies and the SNS : mergers, mergers of services and valences in hospitals, closures of proximity services, temporary exit of SNS doctors and especially senior doctors. As we have already said several times between 2010 and October 2015, they left the SNS, only by retirement, more than 900 senior doctors and almost 2,000 graduate assistants, professionals who are responsible for the follow-up and tutoring of doctors in specialized training. These policy options led to the withdrawal of educational fitness in many services and units of the National Health Service and, therefore, less capacity to welcome young doctors who started specialized training. But the 2015 competition is not the only reason for this worrying event. Other incidents and problems occurred and, despite all appeals by doctors involved in the competition, student associations and structures representative of doctors, the previous government did not suspend the competition. More: the PCP was aware that proposals were submitted by various health care units, including primary health care, to train doctors, who were rejected. Despite the efforts made by the CFP to understand this situation, particularly within the Health Committee, we have not been able to establish reasons, and we also need to work on this. The CFP does not accept or can accept the arguments we have heard from various entities, in the sense that the training capacity in the SNS is being exhausted. Again recently, at a meeting with the board of directors of a hospital responsible for a significant part of the training, we were informed that this same hospital could still receive more users. Now, because we cannot allow medical training to be disqualified in Portugal, because we cannot allow a set of undifferentiated doctors in Portugal, meaning that the reduction of the rights of these professionals and also problems in the level of health care that will be provided to the population, we propose urgent action to solve this problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u92	To present the PS draft resolution, Mr. João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Health Service is one of the most important achievements of democratic Portugal. The Socialist Party recognises the democratization and universalization of access to health as an inalienable right for all citizens. over the last decades, the country has made a remarkable collective effort, in order to train and specialize more doctors, mitigating a vast and complex problem with which we still confront ourselves today. However, with the entry into force of Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 and the scope of the regulation, serious constraints were created on access to specific training in medicine, commonly referred to as a specialty. Also in 2015, for the first time, 114 candidates stood at the edge of placing access to the specialty, which should be of concern to all political agents. This is indeed an unacceptable situation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is important to highlight the training course of a doctor in Portugal, which begins with six years of higher education, following the completion of the common year and soon thereafter of the specialty. In order to access this last stage, it is necessary to carry out a national serial test in November, the placement process of which takes place in June of the following year, when, as a rule, the candidates already attend the common year. According to the legislation in force, all candidates who took the test in November 2015 and who started the common year already in January are prevented from, if they do not enter a specialty in June—for lack of a vacancy or option— from repeating the same test in the month of November immediately following. With the rules in force, the proof can only be repeated if a candidate leaves the common year until 31 May, without knowing whether he will be vacant or will be placed in the specialty of his preference. This is also an unacceptable situation of arbitrariness. But worse: with the legislation in force, all those who are attending the common year and, for some reason, do not enter a specialty, are obliged to abandon this training cycle, which obviously does not make any sense. We are faced with an imminent blockade of the system of access to specific training, by promoting an extended and unjustified interruption in the training cycle of young doctors, by encouraging the formation of undifferentiated doctors, and also by camouflaging the number of young doctors who do not have access to a professional strike. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the other hand, who are attending the specialty and want to repeat the national proof of serialisation today have two alternatives: to terminate the contract by 31 May, and to access 95 % of the total number of vacancies, or not to opt for termination, subject to only 5 % of the total number of availability. With the rules in force, many candidates choose a speciality vacancy in June, aware that they will give up on it in May of the following year. It is important for the PS to correct this regulation, to the extent that it generates entropies in the system, and can even lead to the committing of some abuses, which can and should be prevented. These cases, defrauding the system, weaken the National Health Service itself, by distorting the expectation of training doctors specialists in a short time horizon. And this problem, Mr President, is particularly important when, as has already been mentioned, 114 candidates have been excluded from access to a specialty. For us, it is urgent to promote the link between these 114 professionals to the National Health Service. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude, without prejudice to a more comprehensive reflection on the course of training of a doctor — a reflection we consider timely and necessary — it is important to act now to avoid serious problems and constraints in the short term. Our commitment in this matter is unequivocal, being the PS available to deepen this discussion, safeguarding the excellence of the training of Portuguese doctors, but also their right to access with dignity and without administrative interruptions to the profession and a specialty. For PS today, it is important to look after the future of the National Health Service, so that it will continue to be a major design of all Portuguese, also of the youngest citizens of the country and of course of the future doctors. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u94	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: for the first time in Portugal, 114 doctors were prevented from accessing their postgraduate training and for the first time 114 newly trained doctors did not have access to a boarding school vacancy, the same is saying that they were prevented from accessing a medical specialty, were prevented from accessing their specialization. for the first time, Portugal is creating a generation of non-specialist doctors, undifferentiated. In the future, they will be dutiful doctors, called only when it is necessary to strengthen some service, some hospital emergency in public or private hospitals, but they do not have a specialty. This reality is at least paradoxical when we look at the needs of our country. in a country where there is so much lack of specialists, in a country where so many hospitals lack orthopedics, anesthetists, urologists, radiologists, etc. , in a country where there is so much lack of family doctors, it is paradoxical that this country itself affords the luxury of wasting the specialization of 114 doctors, it affords the luxury of wasting 114 new doctors specialists. But that's exactly what happened and that's exactly what's paradoxical, that's exactly what we should intervene about, and that's what we should find a solution. To address this problem, it is appropriate to ask: one, could there be more vacancies for medical admission? Two, does Portugal need more vacancies for medical admission? The answer is 'yes, clearly yes' to the two questions. Yeah, there could be more vacancies. Furthermore, year after year, hospitals demand the opening of more vacancies, but they are not implemented. For example, I will say the following: still in the last year, the Garcia de Orta Hospital required a vacancy for ophthalmology, which was not open; the Algarve requested the opening of several vacancies for general and family medicine, which were not attended; the Guard district requested more vacancies for general and family medicine, which were not attended; the Hospital Center of the Thamega and Sousa wanted the opening of a vacancy for pneumology and was not opened. That is, there is a possibility of more vacancies for medical admission within the National Health Service (NSS) and, yes, there is a need for more medical hospitalization, even as a way to combat and counter the escape of doctors from the National Health Service. There is, moreover, a vicious cycle that needs to be fought: the regions that have suffered most with the escape of doctors are those whose hospitals today cannot open vacancies for medical admission and are therefore those that have less tools to fix new doctors and to meet the difficulties they have. Therefore, the draft resolution of the Left Block either an urgent solution, i.e. the creation of vacancies for the 114 doctors who have been rented from the boarding school, but also wants the Ministry of Health to guarantee the fitness and training capacity in the regions and hospitals that have lost it in recent years. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u96	Mr Simão Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand that the SNS is one of the fundamental pillars of a state of democratic law, a state of the world. And if, for us, this is an essential premise, we also consider that specialized medical training and the evolution in the career of young Portuguese doctors are also an essential premise, an essential basis of this very pillar of democracy and the Portuguese state — young doctors, who are present here today in the galleries and who take advantage of it to greet. We appreciate three legislative initiatives that aim, above all, to discuss changes to the health care system and which, in general, result from the excess of candidates in relation to the number of vacancies existing in 2015 for medical care. Mr President, in the view of the PSD Parliamentary Group, some are looking for responsibilities to previous governments, when, in fact, previous governments, not only the PSD and CDS-PP, together with the Central Health System Administration (ACSS ), have done everything to ensure that the number of vacancies for medical admissions and, above all, to access the specialty is adequate to the number of candidates for the same specialty. It is good to remember, in fact, that last year ACSS insisted, several times, with the National Medical Board and with the Medical Order itself, that this adequacy should be made. It is recalled that these are the entities to which it is necessary to define the training capacities of health institutions. I recall that, at the beginning of the opening of vacancies, we had about 1304 available for access to the specialty and that after the government and ACSS efforts, the vacancies were increased to 1569, i.e. there was an increase of 265 vacancies. That said, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to appreciate in particular the initiatives brought to Parliament and this House. The CFP, in its good style, only takes advantage of an existing problem, a serious problem which no one denies, at least the PSD Parliamentary Group, not only to propose amendments that do not strengthen the SNS at all, as they disorganise their own services. Come on in, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as Portuguese society is concerned, the Portuguese Communist Party even reiterates and proposes that never — I stress, ever — specialized medical training can be done in private bodies or, even in the social sector, in that typical hatred that melts in relation to the private initiative and that we have been accustomed to in the parliamentary debate for a long time now! [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u98	The Left Block, although less extremist, continues to transport and to present premises which, in our view, make it impossible for us to achieve this same initiative. Finally, the Socialist Party project, in our view, is the most balanced of all, is a project that depends much and almost exclusively on what is to be the constructive and permanent dialogue between the Minister of Health, the National Medical Internal Affairs Council and the Medical Order, to which the training capacity of health institutions can be defined. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, by praising the kindness of the initiatives presented by the Socialist Party here, they will only have political practice if the Order of Physicians, the Portuguese Government, in particular the Ministry of Health, implement such proposals for the specialization of young Portuguese doctors. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u99	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Legislative initiatives are being discussed today that recommend changes in the conditions of access to specialized training in medicine. It should be remembered that for us, CDS, the topic of medical training has always been particularly expensive. We remain medical training as a critical factor of success for obtaining good quality care that Portuguese citizens lack. in this measure and recalling what we have discussed widely in committee, here we want to emphasize that these are the competent health services, their leaders and the Order of Physicians that define the training capabilities that may not compromise this same quality. The rigor of good medical training requires consistent planning and does not deal with demagogy, facilitation or hasty measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u102	It was this concern about the formative quality of young doctors who led us to present in 2012 a draft resolution, which, it is worth remembering today, allowed many doctors to be able to carry out their boarding in private hospitals, which provide assurances of quality formative offer, in a step that respects freedom of choice and ensures that they are not wasted by pure ideological prejudice training resources of unquestionable quality. Already in committee we discussed the circumstances in which, in 2015, the National Serial Test for access to specific training took place. We then receive guarantees that ACSS has published a map of vacancies, in accordance with the annual proposal for training capacity by the competent authorities. It should be recalled here that we do not accept, in this debate, arguments and expressions that disqualify the concern that the Government has had in recent years with the conditions for access to medical boarding schools. This is because, at this committee meeting, we had the confirmation that the vacancies for both the admission of the common year, or the specialized medical hospital have been increasing since 2010, with the highest values recorded in 2015, in a gesture consistent with the increase in the need for doctors in areas such as general and family medicine and that nothing has to invest in medical training. In 2015, as has already been said, it was the first time that the number of candidates exceeded the training capacities presented by health institutions, which also led, for the first time, to the existence of about one hundred doctors who were not placed. in the current context of health, this situation does not stop worrying us. For us, it is clear that the indifference of doctors is not a desirable path and that we will have to find solutions to this situation, although without compromise on the quality of information, the freedom of choice of candidates, the rights of candidates already placed and the real shortcomings of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u104	I want to end by insisting that human resources planning and management in health must be a priority, as the CDS has always warned, and that demagogic and facilitating solutions do not fight for the best interests of the users and then for the doctors themselves. For us, we insist, doctors serve their patients and the priority of the health system and the SNS focuses on the needs of citizens. We will have to start a dialogue path and we are available to help find solutions in this area. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u105	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very quickly, I would like to say - in relation to what has been said by the Member of the PSD, who said that the candidates were far superior to the vacancies and that there are 114 undifferentiated doctors. It should be remembered that hospitals requested 1664 vacancies for training skills and only 1569 were attended — and this has happened year after year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u107	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u108	Now, this only confirms what the Left Block has said, that is, there can be more vacancies for medical boarding, that there is a need for more vacancies for medical boarding, which only supports reality, only supports the project of the Left Block. Thus, it is indeed possible to create more vacancies, mainly ensuring fitness and training capacity in the regions and hospitals that, today, more needs of specialists doctors. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u109	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u110	Mr President, I have requested the floor to tell the PSD Member that, yes, we are in favour of continuing training in the National Health Service, because this has enabled the quality of training of our internationally recognized doctors. But it is also important to say — and you may not have heard, or the CDS-PP bench — that there were entities and units of the National Health Service that showed the availability and need of this training and to welcome these doctors, but it has not been attended. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr President, what it is necessary to do is not demagogy, it is to solve people's problems — that is why we are here — and to strengthen the National Health Service. The proposal we present today is precisely this: to solve the problem of these 114 doctors, but intends to go further by strengthening the public response, by strengthening the health care provided by the SNS to the Portuguese population. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u111	Mrs. Members, there are no more entries, so we have reached the end of the discussion of draft resolutions No 53 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), 123 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 128 / XIII ( 1. ( a). Despite the fact that there are still 10 minutes left for noon, I wonder if anyone is opposed to the immediate start of the vote. [[Pause.]] Once there's no objection, that's how we do it. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 207 presences to which 7 are added by the Members. Members of PS António Gameiro, Helena Roseta and Palmira Maciel and PSD Amadeu Soares Alberaria, Carla Barros, Manuel Rodrigues and Marco António Costa, making 214 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the voting. Let us then begin with vote No 38 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Despite the death of the former mayor and association leader José Sousa Gomes ( PS ). I call on the Secretary, Mrs Idália Serrão, to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Born in 1940 in Almeirim, José Sousa Gomes died a few days ago, at 75 years of age. Trained in Accounting and Administration, José Joaquim Gameiro de Sousa Gomes was a high school teacher in Alpiarça and Santarém, having chaired in this city the Executive Board of the High School Dr. Ginestal Machado. He was President of the City Council of Almeirim between 1989 and 2013. Twenty-four years at the service of the development of the municipality of Almeirim and the effective promotion of the well-being of its people, in which it met the basic needs of the population building the water supply and sanitation networks, without leaving, in parallel, to create the infrastructures supporting sports practice and the realization of cultural activities, which has systematically encouraged and developed at the headquarters of the municipality and in the rural parish, and which have contributed to the recognition of Almeirim as a municipality with excellent conditions for investing and living. José Sousa Gomes was president of the District Federation of Santarém and a member of the national bodies of the Socialist Party. He chaired for more than 20 years the extinct Association of Towns of the Lezíria do Tejo ( AMLT ) and the Urban Community of the Lezíria do Tejo ( CULT) and, until leaving the autonomous function in 2013 he chaired the Intermunicipal Community of the Lezíria do Tejo ( CIMLT) and the intermunicipal company Waters of the Ribatejo. He was also an associative leader in several collections of Almeirim. A man recognizedly disciplined and promoter of commitments, rigorous in management and audacity in ambition, would be a reference to several generations of autoarchs and associations. To honor your memory, the Assembly of the Republic directs its deepest condolences to all your family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u113	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 39 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Despite the death of former MP João Gomes d’ Abreu Lima ( CDS-PP ). I ask the Secretary, Abel Baptista, to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Mr. João Gomes d’ Abreu de Lima, of the House of the Hill in Ponte de Lima, former Member of the Assembly of the Republic during the first four Legislatures, died last January 26. Born 1922, in Moxico, Angola, he was a lawyer and business administrator. He was the first President of the City Hall of Ponte de Lima, elected in democracy in 1977. A man of an ancient character and education, with a vision of the future, has dedicatedly developed the oldest village in Portugal, attracting innovation and entrepreneurship and preserving, at the same time, the traditions of his land. He chaired the government until 1986, where he was always a generator of political and social consensus, having re-entered the candidacy list, being elected vice-president in 2001, who served during the term of office. in the following elections, in 2005, he was elected a member of the Municipal Assembly of Ponte de Lima, his president in the last year of his term of office. Member of the Political Committee of the CDS, elected at the Congress of Porto, was by this candidate and elected member party, by the circle of Viana do Castelo, on 25 April 1976, having remained parliamentary in this House in the following legislatures until 1987. in this Parliament, he was a member of the Committee of Internal Administration and Local Power of the I to the IV Legislation and of the Standing Commission in the II Legislation, and was always a member of the management of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS. Commander of the Order of Industrial and Agricultural Merit, its qualities were naturally recognized and are now clearly remembered. Democratic and Christian, with a wealth of values and politics of enormous proximity, Dr. João Abreu Lima is in the history of Ribeira Lima, where, with dedication, he took care of the land and its own. The Assembly of the Republic presents to the family of Dr. João Gomes d’ Abreu de Lima, friends and limians the condolences for his death. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u115	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence in memory of the two personalities. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members of the Commission on Economic Affairs, Innovation and Public Works, respectively, were submitted applications signed by the PS, PS, PCP and BE, on a low basis to the Commission on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, without a vote on draft resolutions 73 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Towards the creation of a set of national and Community financial support, tax incentives and social security incentives for foreign producers ( PSD ), 118 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government dynamize the measures necessary for the promotion and valorisation of others ( PS ), 120 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defend and promote the production of others ( CFP ) and 127 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the protection and promotion of others as ex-books of transmontane gastronomy ( BE ). The PSD request that the Commission be discharged for a period of 60 days and those of the other parties for 30 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u116	Mr President, if there is no obstacle on the part of the House, the PSD shall reduce to 30 days the time limit for evaluation in the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u117	All right. in this case, we shall vote together on the requirements, respectively subscribed by the PS, PS, PCP and BE, below the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, without a vote for a period of 30 days on the above legislative initiatives. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The requirements are down to 6. the Commission for a period of 30 days. If there are no objections, we shall proceed to the joint vote of the applications submitted by the PS, the PCP and the BE, which shall be lowered to the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a vote for a period of 60 days on the drafts of lein 110 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Promotes the establishment of an administrative committee to regulate the debts of the extinct House of Douro and the situation of its employees ( PS ), 57 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Decree-Law No 152 / 2014 of 15 October 2014 on the House of Douro ( PCP ) and 121 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Regulates the heritage of the House of Douro ( BE ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The requirements are down to 7. the Commission for a period of 60 days. The vote on draft resolution No 139 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a )...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u118	I am sorry to interrupt, Mr President, but considering that draft resolutions 140 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and 141 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) are identical to draft resolution No 139 / XIII ( 1. ( a) I believe that they can be voted together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u119	All right. Mrs. Members, let us vote together on draft resolutions 139 / XIII ( 1 ). ( BE ), 140 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( The Greens) and 141 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 165 / 2015 of 17 August 2015 which regulates the Baldies Act, approved by Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, as amended by Law No 89 / 97 of 30 July, and Law No 72 / 2014 of 2 September [ Parliamentary assessments n. 9 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( BE) and 3 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, if there are no objections, we will vote together on the requirements, signed by the PCP, the PS, the PS, and the BE, of discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralization, Local Power and Housing, without a vote, for a period of 60 days on draft law No 108 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Suspends the application of the supported lease scheme ( Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 September ) ( PCP ) to draft resolutions No 114 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the results of the application of Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December at the end of its first year of validity ( PSD ), 119 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conduct an assessment of the application of the housing-supported lease scheme in coordination and collaboration with the competent entities ( CDS-PP ) and 126 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of maximum income limits supported by the effort rate to prevent exponential increases in income supported by the social districts managed by IHRU ( PS ) and Bill 122 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the lease scheme supported for greater social justice ( First Amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December 2014 ) ( BE ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 91 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March ( Law consolidating legislation on the rights and duties of the health services user ) ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the PCP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the Greens' abstention.]] We shall also vote in general on Bill No 95 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March ( Law consolidating the legislation on the rights and duties of the health services user ) ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the PCP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the Greens' abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u120	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u121	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u122	Mr President, it is to inform that the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u123	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 125 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defends the regulation of the right to accompany pregnant women during all stages of labor ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] If no one opposes us, we shall proceed to the joint vote on the requests submitted by the Greens and the CFP, respectively, to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without voting for a period of 15 days on the projects of lein. 15 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes the principle of non- privatization of the water sector by amending Law No 58 / 2005 of 29 December ( Approving the Water Law ), with amendments introduced by Decree-Law No 60 / 2012 of 14 March 2012 and Decree-Law No 130 / 2012 of 22 June ( The Greens ) and 116 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Prevents the mercantilization of public water supply, waste water sanitation and urban solid waste management ( CFP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 120 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The fourth amendment is made to the Advertising Code, approved by Decree-Law No 330 / 90 of 23 October, imposing restrictions on advertising to minors of certain food and drink products ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, the vote against the PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira and the PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 118 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulation of the advertising of food products for children and young people ( NAPs ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 123 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates advertising to food products addressed to children and young people by amending the Advertising Code ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u124	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u125	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u126	Mr President, it is to announce that the CDS board will present a statement of vote on the initiatives of the PAN and the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u127	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u128	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u129	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u130	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u131	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u132	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u133	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u134	Mr President, I will make a declaration of an individual vote on the last votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u135	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now vote on draft resolution No 21 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures on academic beaches ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 122 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen measures on academic practice ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 124 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to the Government in the context of academic practice ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 53/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent measures for the creation of additional vacancies in the 2015 Medical Internship Competition ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 123 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend the rules and conditions for access to specific training in medicine ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u136	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u137	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u138	Mr President, it is to inform that with regard to this vote, the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u139	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 128 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures guaranteeing access to specialized training for all physicians ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u140	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u141	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u142	Mr President, it is only to inform the Bureau and the House that, with regard to the vote on the last three diplomas, the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u143	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 97 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defend the construction of the new public central hospital in Évora ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 116 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defend the construction of the new central hospital in Évora ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 129 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the new central hospital in Évora ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u144	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u145	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u146	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will present a statement of vote on these two draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u147	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u148	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u149	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u150	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u151	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u152	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u153	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u154	Mr President, it is for the same purpose again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u155	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 91 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — To resume the negotiation of ACEP concerning workers of the Institute of Registers and Notariado ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the proposal for a law No 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Special social support programme for the third island ( ALRAA ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the proposal for a law No 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increased social protection in maternity, paternity and adoption ( ALRAM ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, we shall vote on an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which I ask the Secretary, Mrs Emília Santos, to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-05.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of 1. the Central Section for Criminal Instruction of Braga, Investigation Process No. 963 / 13.6TABRG, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees issued an opinion within the meaning of the Assembly of the Republic to authorize Mr. Hugo Pires ( PS ) to intervene in the framework of the reference car. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Even before the end of the session, I announce the agenda of the plenary meeting on Wednesday, 10 February, beginning at 3 p.m.: at the first point, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 6 / XIII — Repeal of Laws No 134 / 2015 of 7 September on the payment of moderate fees at the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, and 136 / 2015 of 7 September (First amendment to Law No 16 / 2007 of 17 April 2007 on the exclusion of illegality in cases of voluntary termination of pregnancy) and the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 7 / XIII — Elimination of discrimination in access to adoption, civil sponsorship and other family legal relations, making the second amendment to Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May, the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May, the vigorm. third amendment to the Code of Civil Registry, approved by Decree No 121 / 95 of 1 June 2010 of 27 June, The second item on the agenda will be a thematic debate on science, scheduled by the PS. We are thus finishing our plenary session. Good weekend to all the Members and to all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[It was 12 hours and 20 minutes.]]
