ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u1	Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I declare open the Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLII Anniversary of 25 April. [[It was 10 hours.]] [[The Academic Orfeon of Coimbra, placed in the B Tribune, played the national anthem, which the House, in the end, applauded.]] [[Then he played José Afonso's "See Well" song, having the House applauded, with the members of BE Domicília Costa and José Moura Soeiro standing.]] In representing the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u2	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Constituent Members, ladies and gentlemen. Members, distinguished representatives of the Diplomatic Corps, High Civil and Military Authorities, Distinguished and Distinguished Guests, My Ladies and Gentlemen : When I think of democracy I think of a place of freedom where diversity and difference live. And so that these are not abstract places, populated with inflamed memories and aesthetically ornamented words and slots of content, I seek to challenge them as individual rights and social rights. The opinions clarified, open to welcoming new visions of the functioning of the world and the functioning of each of us in the world, emerge from access to information. Far beyond the traditional trinom — freedom, equality and fraternity — we do not see democracy as something consolidated and static but, yes, as a movement that evolves only in the logic of the informed collective. And this collective awareness has enabled movements of citizens who have created real hypotheses of direct democracy, complementing, at various levels, a representative democracy with a participatory democracy. The process of democratization has no end. The governance of public and private life requires an adaptation to the greatest challenge of our time and which has more to do with the tensions arising from conflicts of interest and its resolution than in actual opposition between the state and society, which is becoming increasingly dissipated. This is a social, political and cultural system that tends to share authority, replacing unequal relations of power, democracy goes beyond the sphere of the State, entering through family, professional, civic, intercultural, educational and demerchantizing life and social relations. The realization and happiness of citizens cannot continue to be only proportional to their productive capacity. Let us look at the case of Bhutanese democracy, too young and culturally distant, I know, but which was born from a principle of good governance that closes in itself the ideas of efficiency, transparency, responsibility and professionalism, integrating new indicators that assume a character of greater importance in the country's economy and development and that create bridges between progress and tradition, complementing the indicators exclusively economic, such as GDP, with others who seek to detect the levels of mental, emotional and physical well-being of the populations. The political acceptance of these new perspectives on individual and collective well-being depends significantly on the agility of governments in the allocation of their resources for higher goals, with a real commitment to the change of collective consciousness, which we already see born here and there. It is time to change the criterion of the set of indicators of public success. For this we need to put the human reason at the service of development and adoption of a more true and humanist definition of wealth, happiness and genuine progress, which covers the values by which we must fight together today and which allow those who come after us also to enjoy abundance and prosperity. in the celebration of the 42 years of April 25, which I have the privilege of accompanying in the House of Portuguese democracy, reinforces that the political agenda also has a heart that recognizes that all forms of life together are part of a global ecosystem and that space, soil, energy, plants and animals are not to be used by human beings. And this is the principle that inspires us and through which we believe that we can rewrite our own destiny towards a more sustainable and equitable society. Because another world is possible, and as the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bhutan has advanced: « The only way to sustain an illusion is when it is shared by all»! [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u3	In representation of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u4	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Justice, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Members, Valuable Captains of April, Ladies and gentlemen. Guests : April 25, 1974, an early morning of so many days and so many years. So many days and so many years it took to arrive this April this morning. Days and years of hunger and persecution, but still resistance. Days and years of censure and silence decreed, but still hope. Days and years of exile, wars and opposed destinations, often without return, but still dreams and utopias, desires of justice, though watched, dreams to transform, though controlled, collective seats of freedom and peace, still silent. But it was a great will that was there, a great, very great will, but silenced, because there was always someone in the eye. A hidden, guarded, protected will, in an empty pocket, in a broken coffin, in barefoot, in the eyes of a hungry child working in the sun at any factory in one of the owners of our country. A desire felt in a sense of embrace of two friends who find themselves in any corner of exile or in a toast to better days of comrades who unfortunately the fate has joined, in the crossing of the bullets of wars strange to their interests and their desires. April 25, a day built of so many other days, of so many other years that it took to get there, but we arrived. We arrived in April and May and the rest of our future, with this will and this strength, with this smell of nails and desire to be a person, to be free citizens with rights and with the right to live in a more just country, where the greatest premise was the distribution by all of the wealth produced and the natural resources of all sustainably shared. It is this collective will to build a future for all, in democracy and social justice, that it is important to continue. A future that looks at the environment and quality of life as fundamental rights of all, a condition of well-being, balance and health and not as mere goods to fatten the profits of a few. A democracy that faces the ecological crisis that we live in and that is compromising the environment and the sustainability of the future itself. A crisis felt at the level of dehumanization of cities, in the destruction of the forest and the rural world, in the disorder of the territory, in the desertification and erosion of soils, in the contamination of water, in the disappearance of species, in the loss of biodiversity, in the violations of environmental rules, in the waste of energy, in food security and sovereignty, in the increase of greenhouse gas emissions, in global warming and in climate change. A future capable of returning citizens to confidence in democracy and institutions that have just closed down, without being able to understand the signs of discontent and revolt that they are generating. A democracy that does not only lament poverty and weep injustice, but that seeks to counter them, that does not suffice with the consecration of rights, but that gives them life, that makes them walk, that is able to materialize. This is the challenge we face and this is our commitment, with April, with the people, with the people and with the country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, throughout our democratic history we have been closer to April, but today, and this April, we can say that we have also been further away. in fact, this April, this today, is a return today. And this April is also an April return. It can be shy, but it does not fail to be a return, a return, of course, to constitutional normality, because the Constitution has been respected again and the budgets of the unconstitutional state are now things of the past. A return to democratic normality, because the interferences and disrespect for democratic local power are already there. But it's a return, too, to respect for people. Today, instead of discussing how much is cut in wages, reforms and social support, we discuss how much is returned to families. Instead of discussing how many holidays are removed from the calendar, we discuss how many are resettled. Instead of discussing what the universe is going to be or the volume of increasing moderate rates, we discuss what the universe of people exempt from this charge will be. But it is still the return of the affirmation of our sovereignty. The Stability Programme, which traveled in the « remote-controlled carriage » to receive the divine amen from Europe, before being discussed between us, became discussed in the right place and before being sent to Europe. And finally another return, which certainly confirms all the returns I have just mentioned: the return of the April military to the House of Democracy. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the PAN.]] A return that, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, I warmly welcome not only the courageous Captains of April but also their desired return to the Solemn Session of our Revolution. As we can see, there are already some returns, but it needs more, much more. It is necessary to combat unemployment and job insecurity, restore the most favourable treatment principle for those who work and promote collective bargaining, combat regional asymmetries and desertification, work for sustainable mobility, invest in railways, strengthen public services, open closed courts and bring back the extensites, more fiscal justice and tax financial operations carried out in offshore. Quality public investment is needed to make the economy move, to make the country produce and create wealth so that we can respond to the needs of Portuguese and international commitments. And if it is true that, 42 years ago, the Portuguese have been able to return to their destiny, to make a Revolution to bury fascism, they will also be able to free themselves from the current constraints to our development, from the beginning of the budgetary treaty and the debt, whose renegotiation continues to be imposed as an indispensable condition for their payment and development of the country. In conclusion, and because our Constitution has been a reference to the Basic Law of the Country for 40 years, to the text which gave expression to the dream of April and which has been so badly treated in recent years. Despite the various revisions, our Constitution continues to contain high levels of protection and social justice. And if there were any doubts, it would be sufficient to pay attention to the importance of the Constitution to block a part of neoliberalism that has tried to impose on us in the last four years. In fact, if social regression was not worse and social inequalities were not even more pronounced, it was not because the PSD/CDS government did not try it, it was because our Constitution prevented it. its content enshrines the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and social rights, such as the environment and the quality of life. in the fundamental principles of economic organization, the Constitution states that economic power is subordinated to democratic political power. It enshrines the principle of the rule of democratic law and points us to a path: the construction of a freer, fairer and more fraternal country. This is the commitment of The Greens: to continue to fight for this path suggested by the Constitution. And if the new parliamentary configuration allowed us to say good-bye to the inevitability, it would even be irresponsible on our part not to contribute to the returns that allow us to approach April. There is still much to be said, but much has already been built on this short path, which the Greens are proud to help us to put things right. Long live the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic! Long live April 25th! [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u5	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Rato now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u6	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court, Captains of April, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests : Today we commemorate 42 years of the April Revolution, a revolution that inaugurated the time of rights in the life of a people, of so many people who had never known them, but who in their lives so much missed them. Rights won with the strength and courage of so many women and men, built in small and great struggles in the fields, in factories and services, in schools and universities. So many joint wishes that were to be dissolved on April 25, 1974 and in the People's/MFA alliance. Conquests of the revolutionary process that led to profound changes in society: the end of colonial war; political democracy and political parties; the liquidation of monopoly capital; nationalizations and agrarian reform; the democratic local power; freedoms and guarantees, including trade union freedom and the right to strike; women's rights; youth rights; national sovereignty. Conquests enshrined in the Constitution and which therefore made it itself, of the Constitution, one of the fundamental achievements of the April Revolution. The Constitution which has the mark of the struggle of the workers and the people, which projects today the values of freedom, democracy, social justice, peace and sovereignty. Constitution that, precisely for this reason, by the content it projects, has always found in front aggressive winds. Strictly, since the phase of its construction, retrograde forces have not complied with its content and scope. in fact, they have always recognized it as an obstacle to their interests and to the recovery of lost power. thus that successive changes have always resulted in the impoverishment of their project of progress and social justice. over time and at various times, the Constitution has been and continues to be attacked, because, in fact, despite mutilation, the Constitution remains the guarantor of many economic, social, cultural and political rights and this is reason to continue to be the target of attack by many who defend and execute policies that have penalized the people and the country. This is evident from the past four years of PSD / CDS government, where the disrespect and repeated violation of the Constitution, the attack on its rights and principles has resulted in the impoverishment of the lives of thousands of Portuguese and the democratic regime itself. hence the defeat of PSD and CDS, on October 4 last year,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ...and its withdrawal from power also means a victory of the Constitution, in the path of the replacement of essential values that the right policy has deeply despised. A victory of all those who, over four painful years, have never lowered their arms, have never given up and so much fought to stop the closure of health services, schools and courts, to stop cuts in wages, pensions and rights, in family allowances, in the transit of transport. They both fought and fight to defend dignity in the lives of all and each, a better life and a more just country. A victory for all who have fought and fought to defend and fulfill April. Therefore, when we celebrate 42 years of the Revolution and 40 years of the Constitution, we reaffirm our commitment to always: to respect, defend and work to ensure that the economic, social, cultural and political rights enshrined in the law and in everyday life; that formal recognition of the rights correspond to dignity and sovereignty; that equal work correspond to equal wages; that stability and security in employment correspond to the eradication of precariousness and that a permanent job corresponds to an effective bond; that the articulation of professional, family and personal life corresponds to the reduction of working hours and 35 hours per week; that the fair distribution of wealth corresponds to increased wages and pensions; that poverty and hunger be part of the past; that education, culture and leisure be a right of all and not only those who can pay; that we do not waste the energy and creativity of thousands of young people forced to emigrate in recent years, to escape unemployment and poverty; that we should be happy by the right to be able to become. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The seriousness of the situation that the country has gone through and through makes it even more evident the importance of finding, with the Constitution, the solution to these problems; it becomes even more evident and necessary to develop a patriotic and left-wing policy that fulfils the Constitution; the subordination of economic power to political power; the justice and economic and social cohesion of the entire national territory; the protection and fulfilment of workers' rights as a pillar of democracy; the guarantee of equal opportunities between men and women at work, in the family and in society; the protection of the principles of equality between States; the peaceful solution of conflicts and non-interference in the internal affairs of other States; the disarmament and dissolution of military blocs. It is urgent and necessary to ensure the country's economic independence, based on the use of national resources, by recovering indispensable instruments for the economic, budgetary and monetary development of trade relations and the strengthening of the productive sector and national production. It is urgent and necessary to promote the creation of employment with rights, the recovery of wages and pensions, the defence of the social functions of the State and public services, the strengthening of public school, the National Health Service, social security. It is urgent and necessary to safeguard and promote Portuguese culture and the cultural identity of the Portuguese people, to decisively reject interferences and impositions coming from the European Union, harmful to national interest, which have resulted in ever more impoverishment, social inequalities and concentration of wealth, more dependence and less sovereignty, in less capacity to build a path that affirms the full right of the Portuguese people to decide on their own destiny. We therefore strongly condemn deliberate attempts to prevent the recovery of rights and incomes, such as, still recently, blackmailing not to increase the national minimum wage. Threats and blackmails from those who have always protected and benefited those responsible for the crisis, nor have they forced a people to condemn poverty and backwardness. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this new stage of national political life, with the removal of the PSD/CDS government and the new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, we have an obligation not to take advantage of any opportunity to regain dignity and rights. We have an obligation to respond to the wishes and aspirations of a people who deserve and have the right to live in a free, democratic and developed Portugal. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] We have an obligation to hold on to this renewed hope and trust of the women and men of this country. We have the obligation, yes, to affirm April, to defend the Constitution and to carry out the project that it enshrines, because fighting for its values is not only the task of the generation that has accomplished them and has conquered them. So here we are, the new generations, with our dreams, our aspirations and our struggle to project April in the future of Portugal. May April live! Let the Constitution live! [[PCP, PS, Os Verdes and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u7	Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u8	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Justice, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Former Presidents of the Republic, other Civil and Military Authorities of the present State, Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Mr Núncio Apostolico, Mrs. Representatives of the Diplomatic Corps, Ms. and Mrs. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have signed two dates this year, the 42 years of 25 April and the 40 years of the Constitution. All those who did on 25 April 1974 and confirmed it on 25 November 1975, thus contributing to Portugal being today a democratic State, a full member of the European Union and a democratic country in NATO, the CDS pays tribute. We also mark the four decades of the Constitution. We must also pay tribute to the courage of the members of the CDS who have voted in favour of all the provisions of a Western democracy, but have voted against — and have done well! — all provisions which print an ideological, collective and socializing mark to a text which should all serve. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And the fact that today the Constitution is different, by the seven revisions made so far, gives us historical reason. Today too, of course, we remember all those who were persecuted, or even exiled, for opposing the old regime and those who, in the hope of an opening and a spring, who would fail, sought to reform the regime and open up Portugal to Europe. We also invoke all those who were persecuted during the Prec (Revolutionary Process in Course), which intended to lead the country from one dictatorship to another,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u9	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u10	... and all those who, without guilt or responsibility, as a result of late decolonization and nothing exemplary, were forced to abandon their affections and their possessions and start a new life. We therefore pay tribute to all those who, before and after 25 April, have fought any form of totalitarianism and have defended freedom as a value in themselves and as an assumption for the prosperity we still seek. Having said this, we must remember the past, understand the present and design the future. Remember that these four decades of Democracy were difficult, but they were worth it. We started from occupations of wild lands and nationalizations, in the name of a revolutionary process that the majority of the Portuguese people never desired and that delayed the reforms that others, in time, did or were doing. We guaranteed national cohesion and strengthened the democracy that led us to European integration, even without the preparation we wanted. We have benefited from Community funds that have allowed the construction of infrastructures that have changed the face of a country that is still divided between the coast and the interior but which have added less to the competitiveness of human resources and the knowledge that the country has, and here there are many lessons to learn and mistakes to regret. We have spent years of easy credit that have improved living conditions provisionally, but few have realized — and the CDS has noticed — that the state was indebted gallopingly and the families too, which we paid painfully. We therefore suffer from the crisis of sovereign debt, recession and unemployment, especially the younger and the long-term unemployed, as we thought it would not happen again. But we never forget it: we knew how to have dignity in difficulties, to resist and, as often as in our history, to make weak forces and every difficulty a challenge. And that is how we should try to understand the present. We understand that the world has changed and changed quickly. We understand that the economic crisis, which has devastated and still lasts in Europe and which is at the disposal of so many of us, is only overcome with confidence, growth and investment. The world of globalization does not fit either to address or to rigidity. We must understand the human tragedy that is persistently before our eyes, in which hundreds of thousands of people, every day, giving their lives as a witness, fleeing the horror of war and looking for Europe as a refuge, and recognizing the dramatic inability to respond to the Union. We must understand the danger and risk of the new threats of climate change, which cannot leave us with cross arms, or a terrorism that makes barbaria its method and the liquidation of our way of life its objective, recruiting its operations in European soil. We realize that Portugal, Europe and the world face challenges in the present, that the past did not foresee and that the future certainly did not recommend. It is in this context that we mark another year of April 25 and four decades of the Basic Law. In front of us, the immediate challenge is the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme for the next four years, which we will still discuss this week and which binds us in and out. 40 years ago, the CDS was alone in the vote of the new Constitution, then, but time gave us reason. I do not know whether we will be alone or with this proposal and in this request for a vote on the Stability and Reform Programmes, but I know that today, as many Portuguese understand us. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u11	They realize that many sacrifices have been made so that Portugal could overcome the cycle of adjustment and troika and that we cannot waste the path we have made and much less throw away all that, with pain, surely, we have achieved. Unfortunately, this Stability Programme is not credible in projections, not prudent in public finances, not ambitious in confidence and is very worrying about investment and therefore about growth and hope in employment. It could, and should, be improved in time, and the only way to do it is to discuss it, review it and vote it, because it is precisely when the country most needs hope that the Portuguese will realize that the promises of a new time, a new cycle or a new era, are denied by the reality and coldness of the numbers: of the growth that decreases; of the domestic demand that falls; of the investment that does not start; and of the exports that come down. However, Mr President of the Republic, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, other authorities present and Mrs. Members, if this is the immediate challenge, let us never lose sight of the structural national objectives that consensus should allow them to continue, regardless of the succession of governments and legislatures. Only the achievement of these objectives, in consensus, allows a better country. Public debt is still very large and we have to reduce; business financing is critical and we have to improve; productivity is decisive and we can do more; demography is the condition of sustainability of social systems and therefore we need constant and courageous policies that help families. These are, in our view, some of the objectives of the future, in the future and for the future of Portugal. But there are other commitments we must also pursue: to build a democracy that is not at the mercy of demagogy; to have representative and credible institutions that are immune to the populism of the moment; or to have regulatory authorities with independence, yes, but that are effective and democratically fiscalizable, because their mistakes are paid by all of us. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is also important to build a society that is able to recognize the values that lead to progress, where individual responsibility is not hidden in a collective and anonymous irresponsibility, where the primacy of merit and the remuneration of effort are the rule and not the exception, where freedom of initiative is promoted and innovation encouraged and where the authority of the State is not diluted in the facilitation of the immediate, in the name of a misleading egalitarianism that undermines the requirement as essential value of a modern society. Mr President of the Republic, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, My Ladies and gentlemen : Here are some challenges, objectives, and commitments that we must overcome, overcome and seek. We must do so with hope and confidence, confident that the challenges are not easy, that the objectives are not simple and that, above all, we cannot repeat the mistakes of the past. Long live Portugal! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, standing up, and the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u12	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u13	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of Justice, Mrs and Mrss. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Captains of April (again at Home) : About 20 years ago, in an association of students, we celebrated the Portuguese revolution on their anniversary. The motto was: « April 25 is our age». The official commemorations then called us "the children of the Revolution", but we, then students in struggle, called for another status: that of her brothers. As long as we live, we'll always be at the age of 25 April. It was also in those days that we learned to invoke the Constitution in our defense. For those young people, the word "Constitution" was even more than the theme of ancient paintings, landscapes of walls demolished by absolute majority. We only met with the Constitution when, it is known how, we came to hear the principle of teaching tends to be free of charge, that the collection of propines came, then, to violate. We discovered that not everything in the Constitution is respected, but we also found that we had the strength of a text that, in its commitments, would always disturb the old powers. A proudly written text by a people standing, just arrived from the revolution, this journey in time that, in a few months, brought Portugal to the 20th century. over 40 years, defended and attacked, injured and altered, the Constitution maintains its objective: a society of culture and work, pluralism and equality. And while there is a powerful, financial or bureaucrat who accuses her of being an obstacle to progress, the Constitution breathes. But what would she say—we ask ourselves, 40 years later, of the life of her constituent people? Forty years later, our democracy shrinks under the pressure of a European Union born in the elite, imposed, treated after the treaty, ignoring the peoples. The irresponsibility of this Europe is today: Portugal has been forced to specialize in concrete, banking games and large commercial areas, to now be treated as a debt colony, a people condemned to severe punishment, measured by magnifying powers that no one has elected. « They must change the Constitution and the electoral law » – says a President of the European Central Bank, whose mandate seems to be to respond to what no one asked him. Forty years later, we carried the burden of a failed elite. The dictatorship families, recycled in this income and casino economy, continue to make us lose what we could not waste. Let us remember your names: Spirit Holy Spirit, Mello, Champalimud, Queiroz Pereira. They are the same families of trade, industry and political police, of the rocks and farms, together with the most recent oligarchs of privatization, and today pass their luxury failures and our misfortune between Switzerland, Panama and the public safes. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And we can even find them providing with the plutocrats who have appropriated themselves to the independence of countries coming from the end of the colonies, also 40 years ago. The people imposed a democracy on them, but the owners of Portugal are still too much like their past. For this reason, Portugal now lives an unbelievable expectation. They wanted to convince us that impoverishment was more than inevitable, it was a good, the virtuous strategy: to live always worse, because that is the only way you deserve to live. And yet democracy has spoken. in recent months, 40 years later, different forces, with different mandates, made a path of dialogue and joint commitments. They have denied that, in free elections, not all votes are useful and have chosen their starting point: the devastation of recent years cannot be prolonged, the impoverishment must stop, not one step further! The decisions taken in the Assembly of the Republic in these months — from the timid recovery of wages to the replacement of emergency social support, from the annual rise of the minimum wage to the lower energy costs for the most vulnerable — are the best tribute that can be paid today to the Constitution in its 40 years. After all, it is respect for work and the right to a dignified life. to those who tell us that these goals are unattainable, that the accounts can never hit right, we thank the advice. But be careful: the accounts that matter, the people will adjust them, with economic fraud, with the spread of work, with the policy of virtuous impoverishment. by the Block of Left, these are the accounts that we will make, every day, so that there is respect for who works and who is reformed. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] We owe this to those who and those who have dedicated their lives to social justice, to whom he has given us freedom here and who we will never forget. But I must, above all, those of the low, those of today who have been forced to emigrate, I must do so to those who live in the distress of precariousness, unemployment and poverty. These are the legitimate creditors of the country, because, in a true democracy, the first creditors are not financial institutions or obscure funds. in a democracy, it is the social contract that prevails, the constitutional contract of the state with its people. To respect it, we must regain sovereign capacity, defend Portugal and bring justice to the economy, beginning to pay the unbearable debt to those who, living in deprivation, do not know or live in democracy. As long as this historical debt is to be collected, no one expects the Left Block to be reduced to the « tender of the 40 ». No one expects us to be converted to the inevitable or finally embedded in the role of sad children of the Revolution that has passed. on the contrary, we are her age, we are her sisters and her brothers and it is with her that we came to meet. Long live April 25th! Long live Socialism! [[Congratulations from BE, the PCP, The Greens and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u14	In representation of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr. João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u15	Mr President of the Republic, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court, High Civil and Military dignitaries, Mrs. Members, Ladies and gentlemen, Portuguese and Portuguese : Just 42 years ago, the Armed Forces Movement redeemed the freedom of my grandparents, my parents and others who, like me, were born, growing and experiencing the opportunities of democracy, from openness to Europe and to the world we were missing. It is with this feeling that my and other generations look at the decisive gesture of the captains and soldiers of April, today returning to this House, and it is with a debt that I am here, on behalf of my Party, on behalf of my Parliamentary Group and on behalf of the Portuguese Socialists, to say "Thank you! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] I belong to a generation that did not live the fight against the dictatorship of Salazar and Marcelo Caetano, who did not suffer in the skin political persecutions, which did not experience the restriction of the most basic freedoms in Portugal. in my generation, I am among those who refuse to lose that memory. But open the "Porta da Liberdade", Portugal has struggled in recent decades. We have, of course, passed the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which came into force just 40 years ago. I would like to pay tribute to the constituents of the Second Republic, women and men who conceived a country before their time and gave the word of law to the construction of a just, free and fraternal Portugal,... [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]] ... not hiding the differences in the scope of the consensus that allowed the adoption of a progressive and defining text of our identity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The celebration of liberty should be an opportunity for reflection and an area of border. And how difficult it is to face the present and the future, when we look around and realize the galloping growth of inequalities. It is not easy to understand that some are becoming increasingly poor and others are getting richer. It is not easy to accept that one's salary is little more than 500 euros and that of others more than 50 000 euros. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] It is not easy to accept that an elite throws immoral fortunes into tax havens, when the ordinary citizen can hardly afford the daily expenses. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Nothing can justify that we accept as normal what is not, nothing can justify that we accept as normal what cannot be. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unemployment, precariousness and emigration represent a trilogy of the denial of social rights. Unemployment is a primary condition in the generation of inequalities. Body precariousness reinvents slavery in contemporary times. Forced emigration destroys life projects of hundreds of thousands of young people, to whom it has been said that they do not take place in Portugal — they are the'refugees' of our economic and social disability. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] To this country several times deceived, to this yielded Europe and to this decentralised world of humanist references, I say 'No! », we have to say « No! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The voice of young people has been too often behind in recent decades and the problem of young people with politics lies in something extraordinarily simple: in the results of government action. Today, Portuguese can find in the Government of your country an unquestionable will to correct inequalities, to give back hope to a wounded people, and to regain the solidarity of other times for Europe. To return credibility to politics, it is urgent to point the way to a new ideal of justice, not in the way sacrifices are demanded, but in the way wealth is distributed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What I am ambitious for my generation is a decent society, founded on three « D», which is not those of the Revolution of Craps, but which also refers us to the field of action: Defending, Dynamizing and Challenge. Defend our history, our culture, language, territory, human capital and those who have less resources. To dynamize the economy, institutions, social movements, qualifications, decentralization and regional autonomy. Challenge, challenge prejudices, conservatism, neoliberal cartilage. To challenge citizens to be more participatory and thus to honour April. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With 25 April, each Portuguese and each Portuguese, irrespective of living in Lisbon ( the capital), in Maia ( my municipality), in the village of Rio de Honor, in Bragança, in the Serra de Monchique, in the Algarve, on the island of Corvo, in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, or in Porto Santo, in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, are entitled to be treated as the same. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I proudly carry a nail in my chest, but I also learned, in this House, that this is not a sufficient condition to fulfill April and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. To meet April is to provide everyone with the opportunity to overcome the inequities we face when we are born, regardless of who we are, where we live, whom we love and what we believe in. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Freedom is the reason for our presence here, today and now, but freedom and equality do not distance us. Today, more than ever, in a country with so many asymmetries that we must fight, freedom and equality are approaching us. Long live April 25th! Long live Democracy! Long live Portugal! [[Upstairs of the PS, standing, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u16	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Teixeira da Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u17	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, Mr. President of the Supreme Court, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. President of the Supreme Administrative Court, Mr. Ombudsman, Mrs. Attorney-General of the Republic, Mrs. Deputies and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, High Authorities, My Ladies and gentlemen : in this celebration of 25 April we want, first of all, to honor the Portuguese people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u19	...that, out of an authoritarian and conservative regime, he managed to take the fate of the country into his hands and avoided new totalitarian experiences.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u21	The role of democratic parties was then decisive to contain the threat and the struggle for democracy continues to live in the memory of those who lived those troubled but exciting times! I also want to pay tribute to all the military and civilians who participated courageously on 25 April, with responsibility and humility and with a sense of service to Portugal, in particular those who are no longer among us. To the anonymous majority of these unknown heroes I want to lend profound recognition to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] We celebrate a day that gave us freedom and democracy. Freedom, this word that we have heard and invoked, however, contains the most complex concepts that exist. It is a strong but also fragile concept, such as democracy. Difficult and fragile concepts that know many forms of subversion, under the cover, so many times, of an apparent normality, accepted and anesthesitant, that in a way tear the corrode. to those who have returned freedom and democracy is not only gratitude, it is also the responsibility that is extended to all of us and to the future, a collective responsibility that no one is free of: the responsibility to combat all the phenomena that overthrow freedom and democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u23	The first of these phenomena is certainly indifference, indifference to others, towards public things and political participation, when others must be our reason for being and the public thing is of all and not just some, often for illegitimate purposes. [[PSD applause.]] There is also intolerance or, better, all types of intolerance. Intolerance to those who carry differences, intolerance to the right to difference, intolerance to the right to freedom of expression, intolerance to those who think differently, because no one is a holder of truth or even of the exclusive good. There is also the trivialization of the concepts of freedom and democracy, to the point of forgetting what they really mean. How often are freedom and democracy not invoked in the name of ideals and intolerant, totalitarian, subversive and unjust practices? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] How many times is freedom not invoked, as well as democracy, while acts that benefit purely installed or installed interests are practiced, purely obscure interests? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u24	There is a lack of transparency in our public life. Social consultation was replaced by a three-fold agreement in the darkness. Where is union freedom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u26	There is a lack of transparency in public life. There is a lack of political scrutiny by this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u28	Democracy and freedom are defended, not by mere invocations, but by daily struggles. Freedom does not only have an individual dimension, although in its exercise it is very hard, because it involves a permanent fight against suffering and injustice. Responsibility, social and intergenerational cohesion, qualifications of people and institutions are required.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u30	The European Union must be a genuine community of true democracies who together decide to move forward in a more solidarity way, accepting common rules to achieve a set of goals of peace and prosperity for their peoples, which would otherwise not be attainable, and today facing numerous challenges, that I allow myself to underline the immense humanitarian crisis of migrants. There are challenges: the stabilization of North Africa and the Middle East, the advance of populist movements, xenophobia. A country that is committed to and benefits from them must comply with the rules that they impose, without which we have long gone back to an economic and financial situation without exit. Politics can be seen as a nest of ideas and projects, but also of words, reason and emotions. But, in a quality democracy, words should be used with responsibility,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u32	... the speech must be inclusive and not ostracizing, the discussion must be serious and substantiated, the argument anchored in demonstrable relations of cause and effect and, in the words of politics and politicians, the public good must remain above all, above the mere games of exercise of power in the short term. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u34	Therefore, it is shocking how in recent years we have seen the return of a kind of child and histrionic discourse, with a childish and simplistic logic, that it is the idea that the policies of absolute need and salvation, adopted by the previous Government to rescue Portugal from the pre-failence situation that arrived in 2011, would aim at the impoverishment of the country, while the policies of the current government would allow, in a magic blow, to solve in two sentences all the problems of the country. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] Pure democratic infantilism! I recall that in 2011 the State was in pre-banking, intervention, unable to finance itself to cope with the most unsuited expenditure, such as the payment of wages and pensions and the maintenance of the essential tasks of a social state. That's exactly what it was all about. The importance of good policies and a good economy for the functioning of social democracy does not need to be demonstrated, it is enough to think that various economic rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic can only be exercised if we have productive investment, education of excellence, quality human capital, scientific, technological and business innovation and, as a result, creation of sustainable jobs and significant growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u36	Without growth we walk towards economic development and a miserable society in which everyone will claim in vain. If there is no rigour in education, we are expected to have a society of ease and mediocrity. If the effort and merit of the Portuguese workers and pay their taxes with incentives for social mobility and community recognition are not rewarded, we will be facing a society blocked and voted on to failure.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u38	However, mistakes and irresponsibilities in the name of demagogic objectives are rapidly being made shockingly, but they are very expensive and for a long time at the expense of enormous sacrifices by the Portuguese, as witnessed by the bitter experiences experienced in previous political crises.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u39	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u40	The drive to take and maintain power leads to the sacrifice of long-term interests in favour of quick-impact demagogic measures, but which quickly become exhausted, when the sustainability of the social state is threatened.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u42	If we continue to witness the speech of intolerance, the intellectual dishonesty of arguments and justifications and even the persecution attitudes of recent times, including the creation of artificial conflicts, for reasons often as small as personal revenge, with assault on public administration or independent regulators, if they continue to look suspiciously at parties and opinions that do not align with the bottle of the current power, as if everyone in this Chamber feels true! , to the left of the Socialist Party were merely tolerated, so the problem of democracy in Portugal could become deeper and lead not only to a crisis of confidence in institutions but also to a crisis of confidence among Portuguese people in each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u44	What we need most is that we have strengthened confidence in each other and that the economy and society can maintain and consolidate the path of recovery. The PSD has always been a deeply reformist party and is available to present new ideas in order to create a better and more welcoming country for all generations. Reforms are as important as sustainability and honesty, a word that I use rather than rigour, but this dialogue can only take place and bear fruit in an environment of tolerance and not exclusion from anyone that allows a strong consensus on future strategic guidelines. in politics there are always new opportunities and in our political system there will be a need for everyone's effort. This is an essential fact which will be imposed sooner or later, I repeat. The teachings of the great tragedies of the 20th century seem to have been forgotten. Nationalisms and populisms of all sorts again mark the world political landscape, Europe and the demagogic appeals to the national ethos collect accessions and votes. But we also need to draw attention to demagogic governance, based on proposals without sustainability, which lead countries to ruin, as happened in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u45	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u46	The truth, recognized in all international forums, is that the XIX Constitutional Government has made the painful journey through the desert and allowed the returns of income to which it was now possible, although at an incompatible pace with the foundations of our economy and our finances.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u47	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u48	Once again it was affixed to the illusion of short-term gains, especially when certain political forces forget that democracy is also alternance and wage, in case of a new financial and social crisis caused by the shortcomings of the current government itself, in dangerous leaks forward in the name of the alleged irreversibility of the measures taken. Looking outside the euro area, there are emblematic cases of what can happen when irresponsible policies are adopted. But there remains among us those who advocate models of irresponsibility. I say this in order to remember that in democracy there must be alternance and that no one can think that certain measures that are being taken hastily in this House, and that they constitute chimeras, can be considered irreversible, as some seem to make the Portuguese believe, perhaps, to condition them or even frighten them. We're not afraid! in the midst of these external and internal risks is also worrying the arrogance in the exercise of power to give a normal look to a situation that has nothing normal! The PSD will continue to defend the Portuguese, exerting strong but responsible, constructive but critical opposition. The contribution of new proposals will not remove the inalienable duty of reporting intolerable situations. When disagreements in various matters lead to accusations that the opposition parties have agreed with the European institutions and that they are the new traitors to the homeland, the smell of salazarism more baffling and ridiculous slaughter itself upon who makes such statements,... [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] ... that are the denial of a friendly, tolerant and inclusive democracy. [[PS protests.]] Yes, salazarist and baffling! Celebrating April 25 is the celebration of democracy. It is to remember the Revolution of the Claws of 42 years ago and pay tribute to those who participated in it, it is to lead everyone to do everything within their power to promote a social country, which allows for a gradual improvement of well-being, but it is also to recreate a society that accepts and lives with the disparity of opinions, that practices a culture of tolerance, without unnecessary cliques, without diabolization of political opponents, without ideological taboos that, in the second decade of the millennium, sound like old pocs kept in baffish cupboards! This is also to live April! the promotion of equal opportunities, the recognition of merit, social mobility, the need to give confidence to Portuguese in general, to respect among institutions, all constitute flags that the PSD has always defended, but also fundamental ingredients of democracy. Remembering these principles and defending them with courage and sense of state is the best contribution we can make on this day of the party of democracy to honor the Portuguese people and to evoke the always inspiring date of April 25. We fight the demagogues, moralists, radicalisms of any kind, the possessors of truth, the dazzled with power, the extremisms. Humanity has always gone wrong with all this! Long live April 25th! Long live Portugal! [[PSD applause, stand up, and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u49	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of Justice and of the other Superior Courts, former Presidents of the Republic and of the Assembly of the Republic, Ministers, Attorney-General of the Republic, Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, Ombudsman, Representatives of the Republic for the Autonomous Regions, Mr. Vice-Presidents of the Regional Legislative Assemblys, Mrs. Former Prime Ministers, Mr. State Councillors, Mr. Chiefs of the Armed Forces, Army and Air Force Major States, Ms. Members, Mr. Nuncio Apostolic, Dean of the Diplomatic Corps, Members of the Diplomatic Corps, Civil and Military Authorities, Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Mr. Former Councillors of the Revolution, Mrs. Former Constituents, Mr. President of the Association Directorate April 25, Illustres Invited and Invited, Excellencies, My Ladies and Gentlemen : I welcome you to the Assembly of the Republic, welcome you to the Solemn Session of the XLII Anniversary of April 25. This is the first time that Mr. President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, will take part in a commemorative session on this first day of democracy on 25 April. It is also my first time, because I have a double honor or even a triple honor, being President of this House. April 25, both in one day, so many memories, so much today, so much future. If on 25 April 1974 it was the first day of our democracy, on 25 April 1975 it was the date of the first free elections and on 25 April 1976 it was the moment of the entry into force of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and also of the first legislative elections. We entered the consolidation phase of our democratic regime 40 years ago. But let's talk first of the first date: April 25, 1974. Commemorating April is to remember a past of dictatorship that we do not want to repeat and an opportunity to project the democratic, solidarity and developed Portugal that we are building. Just 42 years ago, the Armed Forces Movement put an end to 48 years of dictatorship and opened the doors of democracy, development and decolonization. « (...) We have been talking for so many years. You can only want everything when you didn't have anything, only want the full life who had life stopped(...) » sang Sérgio Godinho. We already know that Portuguese democratization was not a linear process, free of errors or contradictions. No human undertaking is, and much less this would be. In democracy all criticisms are legitimate. They count with me for all critical balances, but never, ever, to diminish the size of April 25. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] I do not forget my generation, the generation of my parents, and all those who suffered the deprivations of freedom, resisted and said 'no', in the name of our freedom and freedom of the coming generations. The memory doesn't go out. So today, as always: thank you very much, Captains of April, how good it is to see you back to this House, which is also your House, the House of Democracy. [[Upstairs, PS, BE, PCP and The Greens.]] in the person of Colonel Vasco Lourenço, President of the Association Directorate 25 April, here present with some comrades, I greet all the April military and I greatly miss those who have already left: Salgueiro Maia, Melo Antunes, Marques Júnior and so many others. [[PSP, BE, PCP and Os Verdes and PSD Members applauded.]] Mr President of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests : 25 April 1976. Just 40 years ago the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic entered into force. 40 years ago, Members from very different political latitudes put their differences on the table. They have sometimes diverged harshly, but therefore they have not been able to draw up the common rules of the democratic system and the programme of rights and responsibilities, which is the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. in the Constitution, above the parties, above the political projects of each one, were values that we all shared, values that unite the Portuguese and that therefore had constitutional translation: peace, bread, housing, health, education, because, of course, at the bottom, the right to a dignified life in freedom. The constituents we have already paid tribute to this month of April have left their contribution in this compass which still guides us today on the paths to the future. Allow me, in fact, to recall this moment of great emotion, so fresh in our memory, that it was to honor and re-encounter, in the Chamber of Sessions, so many architects of constitutional democracy, with different positions and that we have not seen here so long, as, and I will only quote some, Amendio de Azevedo, Américo Duarte, Antonio Arnaut, Carlos Brito, Carlos Macedo, Carmelinda Pereira, Pinto Balsamão, Freitas do Amaral, Jaime Serra, Jorge Miranda, José Manuel Tengarrinha, Manuel Gusmão, Oliveira Dias or Vital Moreira. It was an unforgettable moment for them and us. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] And then the emotion that was to honor, in the main hall, also those who have already left and who leave us a great miss. We have mentioned the President of the Constitution, Henrique de Barros, on behalf of all those who have already died, leaving such a great legacy. It was indeed a moment of emotion, but also a lot of hope in the future of Portugal. The progress of 40 years of the Constitution, at a time when the criticism of parliamentaryism is easy, has also been made by all Members who have represented the Portuguese in this House over 40 years of legislative elections. The great progress of democracy, the social and civilizational advances have all gone through the XIII laws we have already brought and the governments that have formed from them. Today, more than ever, it is good for us to revisit the constitutional spirit of 1975 - 76. Conscious of the strength of the convictions and the reasons for our proposals, we must be able to identify the common ground that we tread, the values that unite us and the strategic objectives that mobilize us. We discussed everything, but everything, and we never try to lose sight of the changes we need to make in order to return hope to Portugal. We discussed everything, but then we tried to speak with one voice in Europe on behalf of the Europe we want: a Europe more focused on social solidarity than on the tenths of public finances. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] In this regard, the question is legitimate: how can it be possible that, after the brutal financial crisis of 2007 - 2008, the pillars of the thought that generated it — deregulation, liberalization, privatization, flexibility — have not yet been definitively relativized and erased, despite all the regret that came to us at that time from the IMF, the World Bank, the OECD, and the European Union itself? [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] If we want more Europe and if we demand more than Europe, let us not let ourselves lose sight of fear or cynicism, let us fight for our Europe to be once again the beacon of human rights to the rest of the world. Let us remember Sophia's wise words of Mello Breyner in the Constituent Assembly: « (...) We must not fear the dangers of freedom. The fear of enemies of freedom and the use they can make of freedom cannot lead us to destroy at the start our poor freedom to invent, imagine, participate(...) ». Today is the day of freedom. Freedom is not a fragility; freedom is our greatest strength. Mr President of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, Portuguese: 25 April 1975, 25 April 1976, days of freedom, days of election. these days I remember a minimum abstention and a maximum joy on people's faces. The contrast with what is happening today, 40 years after the first legislative, presidential, regional and autarchical elections, is too obvious to go unnoticed. We cannot allow the party of democracy to be transformed into a new, although democratic, version of Alexandre O’Neill’s “cabisbacha” festival. I know that there are those who see in abstention a sign of democratic normalization and emigration. I understand these arguments, but I ask more attention to the signs coming from successive investigations into the opinion of the Portuguese, at the level of confidence in the institutions of the country. Let us look at levels of trust in all institutions and not just political institutions, because democracy is not just about parties and Members. Democracy is also a respectable, respected and prestigious judiciary. Democracy needs pluralistic and respectful social communication of ethical rules. [[Congratulations from the BE PS, the PCP, the Greens and the CDS-PP Members.]] The exercise of public functions in sovereign bodies in the Presidency, Parliament, the Government, the Tribunals, as well as the profession of informing public opinion are tasks of the greatest delicacy that oblige us to a sense of permanent social responsibility. We cannot expect Portuguese respect for those who do not respect or for those who do not respect the rules and rules of the democratic rule of law. Democracy is, above all, a regime of rules and values. We therefore see with a positive expectation the way in which parliamentary groups begin to do their part, whether with the announcement of initiatives to reform the electoral system, or with initiatives to strengthen transparency in the exercise of public positions. Regardless of the merits of the political proposals of each parliamentary group, here is a sign of concern and non-conformity, a concern about the quality of democracy and the fight against corruption. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: For a long time we have been talking about the reforms of the political system, many have done so, many have yet to be realized. We know that we cannot ask for the legislative reforms of the political system what it is not possible for them to provide: more economic growth, more employment, more income, better life for all. We know that Portugal still remains a society too unequal and that more inequality leads to less political participation. But we cannot ignore the place where the reforms of the political system occupy in improving the quality of democracy and the performance of democratic institutions. in this area, I think we should abandon the idea that everything starts and ends with the production of new legislation. Why don't we look at the instruments that we already have in our hands and that don't necessarily imply more laws? Oh, my God! Why not bring the digital revolution back into democracy? Oh, my God! As 20 years ago, with Almeida Santos, the Portuguese Parliament must once again lead the process of accession of state institutions to new communication technologies. Social networks, with all their risks, enable people to approach and communicate better, outside where citizenship is increasingly practised today, working with the community to increase the quality of scrutiny to Parliament. Never, as today, have Members justified their choices before their electors. As today, Parliament has never had its doors so open to the community. We must also be able to leave these walls and continue the project, always unfinished, of improving democracy. We need to be a Parliament at the time of our day. For example, for the world's oldest Parliament, the British, who, within the framework of the Digital Democracy initiative, was able to bring together opinions from specialists, opinions from citizens, civil society, political solutions and thus find innovative ways to move towards a new democracy of proximity. by communicating more clearly and transparently with people, by involving them in parliamentary work, Parliament will be giving more power to citizens. We will then be giving more democracy to democracy. Therefore, in dialogue with Members and parliamentary groups, I will soon take the issue of digital democracy to the agenda of the Conference of Leaders so that we can find together the best solutions to address this urgent concern. We have nothing to fear except conformism and routine. by strengthening transparency in the exercise of our mandates or in the way we communicate with the citizens, we will give more visibility to our work and, in the eyes of all, value the parliamentary function. Transparency is not confused with populism. on the contrary, the strengthening of transparency is the best antidote against populism. The fight for the quality of democracy is, for all this, an urgent, permanent fight for democracy in this House. Facing him is the best way of valuing our mandate and honoring the courage of those who made the day of freedom on 25 April. Long live April 25th! Long live the Republic! Long live Portugal! [[PPS, standing, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is with great honour that I give the floor to Mr President of the Republic who will send a message to Parliament. Please, Mr. President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u50	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice, Constitutional Court and other Superior Courts, Mr. Former Presidents of the Republic and of the Assembly of the Republic, Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Attorney-General of the Republic, President of the City Council of Lisbon, Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, Mr. Representatives of the Republic for the Autonomous Regions, Mr. Presidents of the Regional Legislative Assembly, Mr Nuncio Apostolic, Mr. Representatives of the Diplomatic Corps, Mrs. Captains of April, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Invited, Portuguese : On April 25, 1974, of a military movement of young captains, quickly became a revolution. Greeting the Capitans of April, 42 years later, is the duty of all those in Portugal who praise the democracy that their patriotic gesture has allowed to establish. Well done, ladies. Captains of April! [[General applause.]] To greet the People, who took this witness and turned it into the foundation of the social rule of law that we have, is to point out the primacy of popular sovereignty, from the very beginning, expressed in the first election to the Assembly of the Republic, precisely 40 years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u52	The whole revolution, throughout history, is made of several revolutions, as many as lived it, more or less intensely. The 1974 and 1975 Revolution was also made of many revolutions. Looking at the projects of the party forces with seats in the Constituent Assembly, it is possible to deal with several revolutions, which were added to the dreams of other forces without such representation. And, as always happens in revolutionary processes, there were times when primacy seemed to hang for one or some of these projects, to, soon after, the correlation of forces favor different projects. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, promulgated on 2 April 1976, welcomed the possible compromise between various revolutions, after 25 November 1975. This commitment would be reformulated in successive revisions, with particular reference to 1982, on the political regime and the government system, 1989, on the economic regime, and 1997, on the political and social aspects. But as a whole, the Revolution of 25 April 1974, in the compromise version of the 1976 constitutionalism, finally opened Portugal the horizon for four summit challenges, which dominated the decades following it: decolonization, democratization, European integration and construction of a new economy. Decolonization : between 1974 and 1975, late, held in the middle of a revolution, culminating in the independence of the brothers states in the language and in so much worldliness and changing economic and social profiles in the community that we were. Democratization : realized by stages and in which the transition to democratic electoral political power met its full expression six years after 1976. European integration: decided in 1977 and formalised eight years back in 1985. Change of the economy: in very diverse cycles — the first, break-up of colonial ties and nationalizations and expropriations; the second, re-rivatizations to Portuguese hands, with public support; the third, of recent transfer to foreign hands in key sectors, in a context of financial and economic crisis. Four challenges lived almost simultaneously, as no other ancient modern Western European empire had faced, without civil war, with the exceptional integration of 700 000 compatriots, going through paths that the strong European economies had followed in 40 years. When the younger ones, so often, my students and my students, looked at the balance of these four decades or so—with a very critical sense, not to say with almost total misunderstanding—, sometimes I drew their attention to the time they did not know and to what was the course that for all of them is already pre-history. They do not know what dictatorship, censorship, very high infant mortality, compulsory schooling not completed for six years, 1 million migrants in a decade, beginning with the depopulation of a continental interior and of areas of the current Autonomous Regions. It therefore sends the truth that it is recognized that the democracy permitted by April 25 represented an unprecedented reality in our political-constitutional history... [[General applause.]] ... to participate in the central, regional and local power, independent of the courts, in political autonomy of the Azores and Madeira, in administrative autonomy of local power, in fundamental freedoms, in drastic change of health indicators, in democratization in the teaching system, in deep advance in the role of women in Portuguese society, in external openness and circulation of people and ideas, in intergenerational and quality of life concerns and, even in the international projection of so many of our best, without comparison in contemporary history. It is only because the same truth tells us that the four challenges faced in so concentrated space of time had various costs of order, which, coupled with external crises and internal weaknesses, legitimized complaints and frustrations in many Portuguese and Portuguese. And, in particular, in the younger ones, like those of the National Council of Youth yesterday, which symbolically gave me this nail so that today, by recalling the 42 years of April 25, I would not forget how much it is going to be done. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] Post-colonial Portugal must take care of more of the language, value more of the culture, go further in education, science and innovation, give more weight to communities scattered around the world, bet more on CPLP, give to those who have come and integrated our social country the importance in the political country that has been denied them. Democratic Portugal has to rethink the closure of the system of parties and the social partners, to recreate forms of approximation between electors and electors, to be more effective in combating corruption and to be more transparent in public life. It has to go further with women in politics and administrative leadership, young people in generational succession, emigrants and immigrants in civic experience. [[PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP applause.]] Portugal which believes in Europe must fight for a less confidential, less passive, more supportive Europe, more attentive to people and, above all, that does not seem to approve in fact the opposite of what it teaches in the ideals. [[PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP applause.]] Development Portugal has to give horizons of hope, that are not the going from crisis to total uncertainty, without being hostage to debt or intolerable dependence, claiming itself able to grow, compete, create jobs and give the Portuguese future. [[PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u54	Portugal of social and territorial cohesion must be much more courageous not only to recover the middle class or to feed the social movement, but also to combat the asymmetries and the poverty that we must be ashamed of. [[PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u56	It is unfair to deny what we all owe on 25 April 1974. However, it is myopus to deny disappointments, outrages, frustrations with the quality of democracy, with the weakness of growth, with the insufficiency of employment, with the increase of inequalities, with the significant persistence of poverty. The balance is clearly positive for those who have the memory of the 70s, but can start to be worryingly disheartening for those who remember only the 90s and the turn of the century. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The solution does not, however, go through anti-democratic pessimisms, anti-European populisms or constitutionally guilty temptations. I know, we know, these days are not easy. They are neither easy nor uncertain as to growth and security and the lack of global financial transparency, nor in slowness or lukewarmness as to the response according to its principles by some part of Europe in refugees, in foreign and security policy, in the economy or in the capacity to avoid anti-solidary fractures, the most unexpected, nor in recent or ongoing economic developments, which advises permanent attention to forecasts and their financial reflections, without dramas, that the rectification of expectations is a reality that we have used over the years, but with clarity, which is preferable to the denial of the facts. But it is in this picture that we are moving today in Portugal. Fortunately, with regard to the main national objectives, there is a wide agreement among Portuguese people: universal vocation, European membership, essential importance of Lusophony, transatlanticism, defence of the social rule of law, commitment to education, science and innovation, combating inequalities and poverty, greater social circulation and recovery of the middle classes, more and better democracy and superimposition of political power to economic power and, still, as necessary conditions, growth and employment, with social justice, without insurmountable financial imbalances. Fortunately, there are also two very well-defined and differentiated ways of governance in our country at the present time in order to achieve national goals: several in terms of the role of the State in the economy and society; several in terms of priorities for the creation of wealth; different in terms of time and mode of the redistribution of wealth; different in philosophy and political practice. Each of these paths is plural, but wanting to be alternative to the other, with leadership and own proposals, clarification is very healthy and fruitful. Democracy is based on pluralism, debate and alternative. Thus, anyone who seeks an alternative, on one hand and on the other, demonstrates, in permanence, humility and competence for that purpose. We therefore have broad agreement on national objectives, on the one hand, and two different models of governance at the moment, on the other hand, which raises three questions. Does this mean that we will continue in the climate of election campaign? Or is the sectoral consensus of the regime impossible? Or is the essential unity between the Portuguese being questioned by two different government proposals? The answer to these three questions can only be negative to the Portuguese and, in particular, to the President of the Republic, whose national mandate is, by its own nature, longer and more suffrage than party mandates and does not depend on interim elections. No, no, no. Portugal cannot and should not continue to live systematically on an electoral campaign.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u58	It demands political stability, which is crucial to economic and social stability. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, this stability is a sign of democratic pacification that must comfort the Portuguese. No, no, no. The stimulant political pluralism does not prevent sectoral consensus of the regime, some of which do not even need formalization in order to assert themselves on a daily basis, as in health, for example, where what approaches is more and more than what goes away. But this can be, as I have already said, a first step towards consensus only in other areas, from the vitality of the political system to the tracing and stability of the financial system, to the system of justice and social security, possibly with slow but fruitful steps. No, no, no. The healthy counterposition of two government formulas does not achieve the fundamental in the unity of Portuguese. Like he's never touched. It is to look at how Portuguese and Portuguese are experiencing the outbreak of a crisis, certainly one of the most heavy since April 25, 1974. They and they suffered sacrifices, cuts, penalties. They delayed dreams and frozen life projects. They saw family members leave, replaced solid jobs with emergency files. And they joined each other. Children have returned to their parents' homes. You've received children and grandchildren. They changed from land to land and survived together. They joined each other. And so they could and can start to believe in the future. They and they were the great winners of the crisis. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] They continue to think different things, to vote on different lists, to diverge in politics, at work, at local life, at sport. For some, current governance is promising; for others, a achievement. For everyone, however, a certainty exists at this time: more instability, more insecurity, not open paths, close horizons. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] And so they've been living an unimaginable distension for a few months now. in this April 25, 2016, 42 years after April 25, 1974, this lesson is a meaning of life for difficult times to appeal to wisdom. We agree essentially, without at least denying the richness of the democratic confrontation, in which governments apply their ideas and oppositions strengthen their alternatives. Let us exchange emotions for common sense, those who must rule, with volunteerism, but with particular attention to the fact that what is possible is sufficient and, more than that, good for Portugal, those who must contest, firmly, but with the notion that time does not change convictions but can change or condition solutions. Democracy created from 25 April 1974 must be recreated every day in order not to deny or deny the Portuguese future. We all know, too, that we will honor and serve it, renewing what is important to renew, debating what is to be discussed, dreaming what is to dream, but looking at the example of the simplest and humble people, who are the true origin of power, always preserving unity in essence, to think of Portugal! [[General applause, having PSD, PS and CDS-PP applauded standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-24.u59	I declare closed the Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLII Anniversary of 25 April. [[It was 11 hours and 50 minutes.]]
