ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities opening the galleries. If there's no file to read, we're going straight into the agenda. However, before that, I inform the House that two members are being elected to the Board for the Monitoring of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, a member to the National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products and members to the Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Let us therefore start the agenda, which is at first a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, which begins with questions from parliamentary groups. Therefore, in order to put the questions on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u2	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in the first debate we had already held last year, I had the opportunity to congratulate the Government on the prospect of Portugal to be able to guarantee a deficit of not more than 3 %, preferably less than 3 %, which would give us the opportunity to come out of the excessive deficit procedure, if of course, after the evaluation of the European bodies and the communication of March by the National Institute of Statistics (INE ), there was a belief that future budgetary policy would confirm the tendency to maintain the Portuguese deficit clearly below 3 % and, to that extent, allow the Portuguese Government and Portugal to benefit from the flexibility required in the light of the Stability and Growth Pact. Mr. Prime Minister, I can now state that as much as the results that are being known can guarantee us, really, with regard to the public accounts of 2015, everything indicates that Portugal will be confirmed, excluding Banif's extraordinary operation, will have a deficit of not more than 3 % — we do not know exactly the value yet, but it will be a deficit of not more than 3 %. As I recall, at the time, this was essential for the country, which is very important for the flexibility that we can benefit from in the near future, for the purposes of continuing structural reforms. And the government in a way confirmed this perspective in a Council of Ministers, where it announced what measures it would need to take in order to ensure that result. And those measures did not seem to be in the way that it was in fact not at the disposal of the government in its first month of activity. In the meantime, we have heard Mr. Minister of Finance say the opposite of what he has already said at first, that it may be difficult to leave the excessive deficit procedure, given the extraordinary operation that happened with Banif. Now, Mr Prime Minister, of two, one : either Mr Finance Minister is not sure what the rules are, or, being certain of those rules, I believe that his first intervention was correct and what matters is whether, from March, the Government confirms, or not, with the State budget for 2016 and with the prospects for the following years, that Portugal has the expectation that it will remain below 3 %. This will reduce debt, reduce the deficit and thus reduce the costs that still prevent us from growing more than we would like. Mr. Prime Minister recently received the leader of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in another quality and, according to the news, he was given the observation that the interaction with the European Commission was "hard" ( I believe this was the expression used by the social communication) about the prospects of the State budget for 2016. Since there has already been a meeting of the Eurogroup, since the Government will certainly be completing the draft of the State budget which will be sent to Brussels for the week, since it has certainly already set the budgetary limits for the various sectoral programmes and which, at this time, has a notion of what it will present, I ask the Prime Minister if, indeed, the central concern is not in the continuation of a policy that reduces the deficit in what he has permanent and also structural measures removed. Or this question of Banif is currently being used to gain greater room for manoeuvre in the negotiations with Brussels, so that it can be said that, after all, the progress to be made is not the result of progress — to go from a deficit not exceeding 3 % to, as the Government seems to propose, not much lower, 2, 8 % — but rather from 4, 2 % to 2, 8 %, which would perhaps allow a much more significant result, although very little interesting for the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u3	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u4	Mr President, I use this New Year to congratulate all of you and all of you. Members and to wish them an excellent year of 2016. Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I believe that it had already become clear in the previous half-year debate that the government is not trying to exercise the deficit on image issues. So, after several weeks, in which they sought to speculate, saying that we would embolden the 2015 deficit to negatively carry the image of their government and to be able to get more off duty in 2016, I believe I have already made clear in the last debate that this perverse view about our action was wrong and that what we should do was what any government should responsible for. That is, in the 20 days that we had governance responsibility in 2015, we should do everything we could to ensure that Portugal meets the goal of staying below 3% of deficit in 2015. That's what we did. And what I can tell you right now is that we must be pretty sure of achieving this goal. As you know, the final numbers will only be in March, but for what we can anticipate is the evaluation that the INE will make of the 2015 budget implementation, we will put-CL - below 3%. As for the classification of Banif, for the purposes of excessive deficit, this is in progress with the dialogue with the European Commission. We are not doing anything to ensure that it is not classified in such a way as to allow us to leave the excessive deficit procedure, but this is, as you know, a negotiation that takes place in relation to a set of extraordinary measures. As for next year, the scenario in which we are working is that of reducing the deficit to 2, 8 % — that was what was in our macroeconomic scenario, that is what is in the Government's programme and that is our goal. The exit of the excessive deficit procedure implies a reduction not only of the nominal deficit but also of the structural deficit. And, of course, the process of drawing up the State budget will take this into account and the need to do so, all the more so that in 2015, as you know, the budget implementation did not lead to a significant improvement in the structural deficit, and on the contrary. So in 2016 this effort will have to be made and it is in this scenario that we have come to work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u5	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u6	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, the news that is being heard, however, points to the year 2016 for decisions that the Government will take and that the IGCP ( Treasury Management Agency and Public Debt) has already announced that they involve more charges for taxpayers. Therefore, when we start to shed some light on the intentions that are beginning to materialize on the part of the current government — and I am not yet talking about all the reverse measures that have already been adopted, which, through the Government or Parliament, will eventually have a negative impact on the accounts of 2016, I have no doubt about that — they seem to point to the need to use the external financing uptake to finance more deficit and more debt. This is apparently due to the accounts made by UTAO ( Technical Budget Support Unit ), which will entail an increase in debt by 2019 of about EUR 11 billion. And it also seems, in view of what was the expectation drawn in the Stability Programme, that the Government is therefore deciding not to save interest, in particular in anticipation of reimbursements to the International Monetary Fund, more than EUR 500 million over the next three years, 2016 included. At the same time, as it will issue more debt to finance the deficit, it will pay at least EUR 350 million for the new debt and the new deficit. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u7	This means that, even before taking any option on the excessive deficit procedure, the Government has already decided that in the coming years we will be taking over EUR 500 million in interest savings, that the Portuguese will certainly have to pay for another way, and we will pay more interest on new debt and again deficit. My question, Prime Minister, is this: do you consider this to be compatible with the prospects for negotiation with the European Commission on the excessive deficit procedure and on compliance with the rules for 2016? It's just that I don't see how things can be added, Prime Minister. At the same time, it is not possible to say, as you are still here, that yes, we must progress, in terms of structural deficit and nominal deficit for 2016 and in the 2019 perspective, and yet, after all, we create, with the difference that we are making with more deficit and more debt, more charges for taxpayers. from its point of view, the deficit of 2, 8 % in 2016, which corresponds to structural adjustment in the Portuguese economy, Prime Minister? [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u8	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u9	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, that this government has a budgetary strategy other than that of the previous government, I believe it is evidence. That is why this government exists. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u10	It was proposed to do different to get a different result. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It will be recalled that, for several months, we have maintained a divergence on the macroeconomic scenario for 2016 and subsequent years. And one of the essential points of this divergence had to do with the fact that we had a conservative reading of what would be the evolution of public debt for subsequent years. [[PSD Member Pedro Passos Coelho's laughs.]] The honourable Member, who is now laughing at the same lightness, said that we would have a significant reduction this year. And this significant reduction was based on an essential assumption that in 2015 it would have an cash of EUR 3900 million resulting from the alienation of the New Bank. And, since you did not have this cash, this reduction of EUR 3900 million, it certainly means additional financing needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There was something you knew and we didn't know. In addition to the failure to sell the New Bank, by the end of 2015 the State would still have to inject capital in relation to Banif, as a result of the postponement they had made in relation to the resolution of Banif's situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What requires the reprogramming of the advance of the debt amortization to the IMF is no change in view of normal debt management, is simply the fact that, contrary to what you had foreseen and as we feared in our projections, the New Bank has not been sold by the EUR 3900 million and, above all, we had to increase these charges with the injection we did in Banif. That is why we are in the situation in which we are and we have the consequences. Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, in terms of debt, I must tell you that what we have to say is that, contrary to what you have been trying to see over the past few weeks, the so admired markets remain serene with regard to the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And still yesterday, we were able to have a debt position, which was the one that had the greatest demand since the beginning of the crisis and which closed with a search four times higher than the debt it had to place. This, yes, is the good news there is to record. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u11	To continue the questions, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u12	Mr President, I would just like to ask Mr Prime Minister to answer the clear question I asked him: will the deficit of 2, 8 % in 2016 correspond to what structural reduction effort of our deficit? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u13	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u14	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I understand that you do not want to discuss what has happened and today. [[PSD protests and laughter.]] But, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, as from next week, when we present the Budget, you will not miss the opportunity to proceed to the analysis and discussion of the Budget for 2016. [[Answer the question!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u15	There is one thing I can tell you: we will certainly have a reduction of our structural deficit above that you had during the 2015 fiscal year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u16	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u17	Mr President, I see that Mr. Prime Minister, when he doesn't know the answers, he likes to have other discussions. [[PSD applause.]] We will, of course, make the budgetary debate when the government informs us of the draft budget to be sent to Brussels and also when it presents the budget to us. But I will now tell you the following: a structural reduction is certainly not going to do with a deficit of 2, 8 %. But perhaps I can, with the European Commission, convince our partners that our prospects for 2016 are better than those that the government is announcing us, with all the measures it is taking. In this regard, I would like to leave two final comments to conclude. One of them relates to the fact that the Government externally criticized the Banco de Portugal's option regarding the capitalisation of the New Bank. I believe it is risky not to give the option of converting debt to capital in the case of investors.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u18	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u19	I shall now conclude, Mr President. But it seems to me, of course, that the solution adopted was much better than that which had to be in force for Banif. Mr Prime Minister, I ask: given that they criticized this position of the Banco de Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u20	He's Banco de Portugal's lawyer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u21	... what was the alternative that Mr. Prime Minister was defending for the recapitalisation of the New Bank? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u22	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u23	Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho, on structural deficit, what we can know is that in 2015 the structural deficit under its management has increased. Repeat: structural deficit in 2015, under its management, has increased! As for the structural deficit for 2016, it will verify the evolution that we have when we present to it the Budget, whose discussion will be held at its own time and not when the honourable Member wants it to be. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] And the very moment is when we present the Budget. [[PSD Member Pedro Passos Coelho's laughs.]] I see that you are having fun with the matter, but I can tell you that if there is something that should not have fun is the result that you achieved for the structural deficit in 2015. This should not be fun, nor should it be honored. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member is perhaps one of the people in this Chamber who is in a better position to know exactly what is the situation of our financial system and what was the situation that the government received at the time it took office. For example, he knew that in December 2014 the European Commission had agreed with his Government a solution for Banif which did not imply either resolution or money injection in Banif.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u24	Answer the question: what was the alternative solution for the New Bank?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u25	Perhaps he also knew well that the accounts that were made in August 2014, about the perimeter of what should be the New Bank and what should remain in BES, were not certain and needed further correction.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u26	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u27	I shall conclude, Mr. President. What we told Banco de Portugal, as we said in public, was that we were concerned about the systemic effects of a redefinition of the perimeter of a bank that had already been the subject of resolution. As you know today, since 1 January, the rule in Portugal and throughout Europe is that the former creditors will respond, they are not protected, in a resolution situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u28	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u29	I believe that any creditor and investor who heard in August 2014 the Banco de Portugal and the Government define a perimeter of trust and sacrifice could rely on the Banco de Portugal and the government of then that it would be safe to make the investment that it had made, although certainly had no beneficial effects, but would come to check two years after the accounts were under review and that, after all, what it considered to be protected was not yet and that it was again called to sacrifice. If you think that was a good contribution you left to trust, you're wrong! It was a terrible contribution to confidence in the markets! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Pedro Passos Coelho.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u30	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to ask questions, Mr Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, clarifying the issue of deficit and debt, debt that the PSD has always worsened, then we speak of other dimensions, since debt and deficit we will have the opportunity to speak during the discussion of the State budget for 2016. The right has taken too long to understand what has happened and what has happened, and continues to reveal a strange understanding of democracy. in the beginning he found that, even losing the majority, he could impose on his opposition the obligation of support that could only have from his co-religionaries. thus, I wanted to reverse the election results and assume governmental responsibilities in post-election revenge. He felt that, in spite of a minority, he should elect the President of the House and that the new majority should resign from this process. I thought who had a majority parliament shouldn't rule. You think, now, that whoever happens to you can't decide. [[PSD laughter.]] He believes that those who become rulers should not do more than the previous governments did. No more, no less, no different! If the PS does more, it's snorkeling and facilitating. If we, PS, do less, we are sovereigns and, after all, non-compliant. If we change, if we reverse, or if we do differently, we're revengers. The democracy of the PSD and PP is only good for them to decide and for those who succeed to respect what they had decided. They once won the elections and seemed to want to rule by two mandates and even, in the case, by parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u32	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u33	in the middle of all this, they have little interest, in the past, what they had promised and little interest in the present that others have fulfilled what they promised. They left us a socially destroyed country, economically impoverished, financially blocked and stuck in the bank with a Governor of the Banco de Portugal named « à socapa»... [[P.S.'s applause.]] And they still think we're here to do more of the same, to make things worse. You're wrong, it won't be like that. We assume with transparency and loyalty to the Portuguese commitments we want to meet, which involve undoing what was wrong, restoring what was damaged and weakened and doing what was not done. To undo, to redo or to do is not the void, nor the revolution, is only what happened in the country and that the right has not yet been realized: the change! [[All right!]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u34	And change is natural, it's the result of democracy. The people are not revengers, they are only free to change, and they have changed! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us not undo, do not redo and do not do the opposite of what we have said, rather than the prevailing practice of the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The parliamentary leader of the majority party of the current minority accuses the Socialist Party of being the "PSR",...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u35	It's true! Revenge!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u36	...Revanchist Socialist Party. This is the case for us to answer them, saying that the Social Democratic Party became the "PRP". He had already fallen the "SD" and gained, day by day, a single design: to recover the past. You are the new PRP! And turn around, but just a little bit! [[PSD protests.]] So and so has it been, a complete disorientation of the right. For example, they reverted to the government the holidays they had; then they criticized the holidays that this government was resting; and now they have proposed to restore more than we did. At a certain point, a PSD/PP government decided to reverse the route on the eastern passenger line, rebuilding its own government program. Then they proposed the partial reversal of the revisions they had made, proposing a journey from time to time. And in the discussions that we are now making, they already advocate the complete reversal of all the reversals they have made. The PS executes so just its own commitments! [[P.S.'s applause.]] during the previous governance, PSD and PP were rebuilding procedural and administrative acts that reversed progress achieved with the Simple, not because they had it in their Program but because they just wanted to destroy that earlier positive brand. Now, we will redeploy and do what is missing with the Simple 2016 program, modernizing, simplifying and helping citizens, companies and investors in their relations with the Public Administration. We will still see the right to say that we do or do little. The PSD/PP government, by revenge, undoes the New Opportunities program. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u37	Result? A breakdown of 85 % was found in the offer of adult training. By fulfilling your program, the PS will have to restore what has been destroyed, and it is necessary to restore a lifelong learning system. With the governance of the PSD and PP, the indicators of poverty and inhuman deprotection reached the most humiliating records. The former majority reversed the number of beneficiaries of the RSI (social income of insertion), affecting predominantly children, the number of beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement, affecting one third of the elderly, cutting pensions, undoing the family allowance, leaving almost 80 000 children and poor young people. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The PS, fulfilling its Programme, has already announced the reversal of these measures. In some cases, they say it was little, and in others they say it was easy. Why are they criticizing us? Oh, my God! Do you think humanism is a quality of the weak? Oh, my God! Do you think it would be damnable to reverse the rise in poverty? Oh, my God! Don't! We don't think so! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD/PP government has developed a counter-reform and undoes what it was doing, for example, by introducing the examinations of the 4. it's 6. the years, with the almost general rejection of educational partners. [[PSD protests.]] The results were negative in the real rate of schooling, retention and withdrawal in basic education and beyond. Now it is urgent to reverse this backwardness, to reverse failure, to reverse school dropout. in the case of the tests, the PSD would have already reverted a little. However, the PS design is to reverse and do what is necessary to build the competent but inclusive school. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD and PP government has destroyed, sold and gave everything it could give from the state heritage. Among dozens of cases, the PS, fulfilling its Program, will revert less than half a dozen of these processes. The PSD calls for investors to revolt and for the deterioration of the foreign image of the Government of the country, as if it had not been the right that, not by reverting what it had means to reverse, for example, left the bank at the mercy of the internal and external discredit and, in this case, with an undeniable increase in deficit and increase in public debt. Fortunately, in a demonstration of confidence, yesterday the government issued 10 years' debt in good condition, showing that the right will not destroy the path that the left wants to pursue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I conclude by repeating: it is necessary to undo what has been done wrong, to restore what has been destroyed and to do what needs to be done. All of this is needed by undertaking what the Government has already said it wants — reducing poverty, taking measures to increase the economy and employment, restoring confidence in the state and involving the European authorities in these plans. That is why we are here. That is what we want to see and hear the government speak. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u38	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u39	Mr President, Mr. Carlos César asked the question where she should be put. The question is whether or not to fulfil the electoral commitments? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho's government is breaking his electoral promises. He promised in the election campaign that he would not increase taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u40	There was no bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u41	It rejects its promise in the government, increasing the taxes it has promised not to increase. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He promised in the election campaign not to cut salaries or pensions. And in the government, he undoes the promise, cutting off the salaries and pensions that, in the election campaign, he promised he would not cut off. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The government of undoing the electoral promises was the previous government. This is the government that has fulfilled its commitments to the Portuguese and to the partners with whom it formed the parliamentary majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So the question that must be put is: are we fulfilling or are we not fulfilling? We promise, as a priority, the replacement of income and the updating of the national minimum wage. Are we doing what we're doing or aren't we doing what we're doing? We're doing it! We promise to end the cuts in pensions. Are we doing what we're doing or aren't we doing what we're doing? We're doing it! We promise to end cuts in public officials' salaries. Are we doing what we're doing or aren't we doing what we're doing? We're doing it! It is about our commitments that such a question arises, and the answer is: we are fulfilling what we undertake to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We made a commitment to restore the holidays that had been eliminated. We are fulfilling, because the holidays that had been eliminated are being restored. We were committed to restoring 35 hours as a normal time in public service. Are we doing it or not? We're meeting and the 35-hour public service schedule will be restored. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We were committed to putting an end to the concessions which, at the last hour, the former Government did in the urban transports of Lisbon and Porto to ensure what must be guaranteed: the municipalization of the transport system and that it remained as a public service to the people. The question that arises is: are we fulfilling or are we not fulfilling? Again, the answer is: yes, we are fulfilling what we undertake to do! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The difference is not to undo or not to undo. The first difference has to do with those who fulfill the commitments and with those who break the promises you made in the election campaign. But there is a second difference,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u42	Turn 2010!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u43	...that is to know whether we are changing for change or whether we are changing for better and whether we are changing for a vision that we have for the future of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u44	To the past!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u45	Let us make a comparison: what the previous government characterized itself to do, has not arrived, was to kill everything that was marks of the previous government, even though it is essential for the future of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u46	It was to save the country from bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u47	Do it out of hatred and with the will to erase all that were marks of the previous government. [[PSD protests.]] Does anyone doubt that administrative simplification is a priority for the country? Nobody's got it! But the first act of the previous government was to put an end to the Simplex, for the simple reason that it was a mark of the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Does anyone doubt that it is a priority for the country to improve the qualification of the adult population, re-priority to adult education and lifelong training? No one has any doubts! Because the first objective of the previous government was to end the New Opportunities so as not to give the opportunity to those facing long-term unemployment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] No one doubts about the essentiality of improving our energy paradigm by placing on renewable energy and electricity mobility. Because the first objective of the previous government was once again to eliminate these priorities simply because they were marks of the previous government. This is an essential difference between the previous governance and the action of this government and this majority in Parliament. Nobody's changing for change. It changes according to a vision that you have and changes for the better. Let us take the example of the evaluations. The question is not to end the exams to end the exams,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u48	Aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u49	...the question is to know what is intended to be assessed. Is it intended to evaluate to exclude, delete, retain at the end of the cycle or is it intended to measure the acquisition of knowledge by children at a time when this measurement is still useful and can be used to retrieve knowledge when we are in the middle of the cycle? Oh, my God! This is the change, it's not the change to change. It's changing in the name of a school, which we want it to be inclusive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, Mr. Carlos César, we will change what we commit to change and we will change what needs to be changed, because what we consider is fundamental is to regain our economy, to relaunch job creation, to regain confidence and is to rebuild a country that definitely bets on more growth, better employment and greater equality. That is our plan and that is why we will be working, not for the negative, but for the positive, and fulfilling the programme we have applied for and the programme we have agreed with our partners to carry out throughout this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u50	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u51	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if I may, it was not about this that I wanted to question you, but I take advantage to tell you that we fully subscribe to what you said about education, although I think we should not worry too much about what the right has said, because the right works in a mistake: no one misses Nuno Crato. Nobody! Only PSD and CDS do they think someone misses Nuno Crato. That doesn't exist! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] The exams created by PSD and CDS were challenged by students, by parents, by teachers. The technical report of the National Education Council says that they have harmful effects and narrow curricula. The conduct of these tests is a practice that does not exist in any country that can please its educational practices or the qualification of its population. Therefore, what is now being done is to allow our country to follow the pedagogical practices that are recognized and thus build the path that must be made, the demanding way of having our children evaluated by their teachers—this maximum requirement of proximity against the facilitation of putting someone on the Av. on 5 October, who does not know the children, who is not a teacher, who is not with them, to decide whether they can be evaluated. We're ending the absurd and that's the right way. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] But, Prime Minister, not wanting to anticipate the debate on the State budget, I believe that the issues that are raised on the weight, the effort of the public accounts and the deficit are important and will mark the decisions that we will take. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk abstractly, it seems that we are not talking about anything, and I confess that, after hearing Mr Pedro Passos Coelho ask about the structural deficit without ever talking about anything in concrete, I would like to ask: "But what are you talking about? Oh, my God! What are you talking about? » I think it’s good to talk about the right things, things people understand. An agreement is under way that we have made to stop impoverishment in Portugal which contains measures of justice to return income that are essential. These measures require some effort from the country—it is an essential effort to respond to the people and the economy of the country—but this effort certainly does not compare to the strangling weight of decisions on the financial system in public accounts, and that is what we need to talk about. So, Prime Minister, I want to talk to you about Banif, because there are lessons for the future and there are accounts to work out what has been done. Banif is a bank born and created by the Madeira PSD, dragged and devastated by the PSD / CDS government, but it was this government that sold it. Economist Ricardo Cabral, Vice-Rector of the University of Madeira, made statements and concluded that the recapitalization that was made of Banif will be five times greater than what was needed. In other words, we left Banif with a 40 % ratio to deliver it to Santander. I know that these things are complicated, but people in general are already a little tired — and used to it! — to see so much public money to then see sell so cheap. in this case, EUR 3000 million for Santander gives 150 million, i.e. five times less. The question that remains is: after all, how much was Banif worth when he was sold and what capital ratio did Banif have at the time of that operation? This is to figure out exactly what we're missing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u52	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u53	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, first of all we shall begin with a half agreement: I agree that no one misses Nuno Crato, but I no longer agree that only in the PSD and CDS seats there are misses of Nuno Crato. It's just that there are no misses of Nuno Crato in the PSD and CDS benches! [[P.S.'s applause.]] What they miss is that they're in the government! That's the only thing they miss! It is because the right has the idea that, no longer know whether by divine law or for any other more contemporary reason, its natural state is to be in government and that the natural state on the left is to be in opposition. That is what makes them angry and disturbs them, even today, in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, in fact, they do not speak of anything concrete, but only abstractions. When there is reinstatement of income, are they in favour or against? Do they continue to argue that the path to competitiveness is impoverishment? What is the path to budgetary consolidation? Have they come to understand that the Portuguese, the families have the right to aspire to better living conditions, to be able to recover income and to free themselves from the fiscal suffocation with which they have reached the middle class or continue to talk about abstractions? Do you think it is essential to adopt measures that will enable the economy to be relaunched or that the economy will miraculously be reborn from the structural deficits? That is, in fact, what continues to separate us. With regard to Banif, I believe that the Committee of Inquiry will be able to determine everything, in addition to the fact that it may have access to confidential documentation from which the clearance of accounts results. In any case, I would like to say the following: there is a part of this impact that I would say is essentially accounting and that has to do with how the European Commission imposed the devaluation of the assets that remained with the State through the bad bank. And this depreciation of about 75 % means an accounting record which will be confirmed or not depending on the valuation that can be made over the time of these assets. What I can say is that, having had such a negative impact at the moment from an accounting point of view, this creates, on the other hand, better conditions for a valuation on its future sale. I believe it is important for the Committee of Inquiry to clarify everything to be clarified on this matter, because every day there is news that does not correspond to reality: neither to the effective value of the Bank, nor to the alternatives that actually exist. For example, last week, a newspaper reported that after all there was an alternative offer that would have allowed to find a cost-free solution for taxpayers. But the fact is that the committee of inquiry will be able to verify in the documentation which will be given to it that, on Friday, 18th, at night, the proposal was still expressly non-binding and that on Saturday, at night, it was still conditioned to a due diligence which should be developed over the following months, when the deadline for the resolution ended at 24 Sunday, 20th. Therefore, these alternative solutions had only a small detail: they were not practical solutions in the calendar that existed, depending on the decisions that had been imposed due to Banif's state of decapitalisation and the successive delays which, over three years, the European Commission had given to the previous government and which it simply failed, not taking advantage of the successive opportunities that had been given. And after, over three years, all the opportunities given have been ruined, there are no more miracles to get new opportunities. That's exactly what happened. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u54	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u55	Mr President, Prime Minister, I hope that the Committee of Inquiry will be able to clarify a great deal. We'll certainly ask a lot of questions, and then we'll see. We know that we have differences on this subject, but I do not want to reopen the debate on Banif now. The different positions we have are known and the committee of inquiry will do its work. However, there are conclusions we have to draw, because we have to guard the future. Banif had been involved for a long time with public money, which means that Banif's accounts certainly had to be seen, the fine slope, by Banco de Portugal. And if they were seen by the Banco de Portugal, the European Central Bank ( ECB ) and the European Commission were necessarily aware of them. Now, we have a problem here: either the authorities, the Banco de Portugal and the European authorities lie when they let Banif's hammered accounts pass, or they lie in Banif's assessment before the sale, to force such a large capitalisation with public money. In any case, great luck came to Santander, the second largest European bank. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And for a country in difficulty, like Portugal, it is very difficult to explain that we are going to be the great luck of the great European bank. So the question is now also for the New Bank. The Economic Diary of Thursday reports that it will be to make a new sale to the large Spanish bank. Is that the intention of the government? When are we going to have changes? Will the New Bank be sold as well? It is EUR 3000 million, in fact almost EUR 4 billion public at the New Bank. Will they also serve to capitalize another Santander or the same Santander? When are we gonna have real changes? It is that if we continue to trust the Banco de Portugal and obey the orders of the European Central Bank and the European Commission, we will continue to capitalise the European bank on the account of the Portuguese taxpayers. If nothing happens, what's already happening is that we pay more and more to send less and less. I'd say we're paying to run out of national financial systems. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u56	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u57	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, with regard to Banif, the European Commission had from the first hour had the understanding of its inadmissibility. Therefore, the authorisation given for the intervention made by the Portuguese Government in Banif's capital was always a temporary authorisation and conditional on the compromise of a solution. It is already known the letter from Commissioner Vestagen of December 2014 addressed to then Minister of State and Finance, Maria Luís Albuquerque. in this letter, which, in fact, describes the conversation a few days earlier with Mrs. Minister, the Commissioner says: « From the outset, we say that the Bank is not viable and therefore we give temporary authorization. We looked forward to the various solutions that promised to be presented. » And it was eight, all plummeted. And it was agreed days later that the deadline should be extended further so that Portugal would not lose the benefit of the so-called 'clean exit' of the troika programme, but that after all this and after the resolution of the BES, no further postponement was acceptable. And he describes a process that should have been completed by May 2015 as an alternative to the Bank's resolution. What the government did was simply ignore the successive opportunities given to it. Now they cannot invoke the ignorance of accounts. And it was not only the Banco de Portugal that couldn't say I didn't know the accounts; it was the Portuguese Government, which managed the Bank, which could not ignore the accounts, the state in which the Bank was and therefore the situation in which it was consciously left. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What happened is not the responsibility of anyone else but the government, due to the way in which the Banif file was managed. As regards the New Bank, what we must first avoid is the repetition of the previous scenario, in which, by force of wanting to market up to the elections, they have done so - in conditions which necessarily led to failure, as has happened! Secondly, we must avoid being re-placed in the situation in which we were placed in relation to Banif, if there was a counterwatch where there were already few opportunities to create alternatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u58	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u59	I shall conclude, Mr President. For this reason, what the Government obtained was the extension of the deadline of one year, from August 2016 to August 2017, to the New Bank's sales obligation, so as to give the best conditions with serenity to be found, ensuring the lowest possible sacrifice for Portuguese taxpayers. Madam Member, I believe you share with me the idea that none of us believed when you heard in 2014 the Government and Banco de Portugal saying that this intervention by the New Bank had this miraculous character to protect and ensure that no hundred of the taxpayers would be reached. I think we agree that none of us believed in this story. So it's hard to believe in this story today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u60	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u61	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have often heard that there is an agreement, a parliamentary majority that can be unstable and that is a problem for the country. But we've proven no. We have achieved, by agreement, because we have worked together, because we have been consistent, such important things as people who earn the minimum wage receive more at the end of this month; we have done what we need to do by seriously reducing the overtax, protecting more than 90 % of the taxpayers; responding to the public service with rights; stopping evictions. But the greatest risk to our country is even the financial system and European orders to end our country's possibility of having a national financial system. That is why we have this divergence and we say that the New Bank has to be public. It is that, if it is not public, in some way or another, we will once again be losing national capacity and putting taxpayers' money into the international financial system, we will be protecting ourselves. We need to change the rules as soon as possible, they cannot stay as they are, because if we do not, even if we have the courage to say that the numbers are wrong, even if we do not do as the PSD and the CDS, which not only masked their accounts, as they hid behind the Banco de Portugal to rob the country anymore, here will be the European Commission to do so, and we cannot allow that. That is why we need concrete and rapid changes. We are here to debate them, and here we are also to demand them, as you understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u62	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u63	I would very briefly like to say in just one minute that this week has been discussed and will be voted on shortly — the 35 hours per week for public service is a common commitment of the current parliamentary majority, and it is not the smallest compromise.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u64	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u65	I shall conclude, Mr President. Public servants, in addition to the loss of holidays and holidays, still have cuts in wages and the increase in working hours with hours that are not paid. That minimum of justice must be given, without stopping public services, certainly. But the services where 35 hours will make a difference are those that need more people: we need nurses in hospitals, assistants in schools, guards in prisons.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u67	Delaying the 35 hour schedule does not solve these problems. We are certainly here to do justice and respect those who work in the State. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Elza Pais.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u68	For one question, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u69	Mr President, Prime Minister, on 16 December, in a 15-year debate, the CDS asked him a very concrete question as to whether, after the end of the examination of 4. the year would also eliminate the exams of the 6. it's 9. years. Mr. Prime Minister, first, was upset with the question, but then answered by saying no. And he said: « There is not in our Government programme the elimination of the evidence it has referred to », addressing the President of the CDS. Mr Prime Minister, it has not passed a month and the Minister of Education has just removed the final test of the 6. the year, precisely one of those that you have guaranteed here that it would continue to exist. Do you recognise the Prime Minister who gave Parliament wrong information? That's an honest word! What is the value of Mr. Prime Minister's word in this House? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u70	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u71	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, complimenting him cordially, I wanted to say the following: I answered a question here, I believe Mr Paulo Portas, on this matter and referred to the Government Programme, from which there is no actual elimination of the examination of the 6. year. What is contained in the Government Programme for which I referred is the evaluation of the whole evaluation system. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u72	What is contained in the Government Programme is the evaluation of the evaluation system and what Mr. Minister of Education did, according to the progress of the parliamentary work that led to the elimination of proof of 4. the year, announce a new integrated evaluation model for all basic education, which replaces the elimination tests by the existence of measurement tests in the middle of 1. the cycle, in the middle of 2. the cycle, in the middle of 3. the cycle, concluding with the final examination of the 9. year. That is what the Minister has announced and, indeed, that is what the Minister has already had the opportunity to come to the Committee on Education and Science with particular clarity and clarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] Therefore, Mr President, let us refer the answer to your question to the Government's programme. What we did was comply with the Government Programme. And even more: what we have done is we have done to implement the Government's programme on this point, as in the elimination of holidays, as in the replacement of 35 hours of work per week, as in the increase of the national minimum wage, as in all that you have criticized. I would like to take this time to tell Mrs Catarina Martins that our commitment is very clear with the reduction of 35 hours a week's work and the question that arises in the public service and that, from my point of view, must be resolved in the context of collective bargaining, this year, the application of this new schedule to each of the sectors, because the impact is differentiated in each of the sectors. And, as I said, it is not possible in many of these sectors to make an automatic application, which, of course, requires proper negotiation. But, I am sure, it is my deep conviction that we will be able to put into effect, as quickly as possible, the 35 hours per week for all sectors of the Public Administration, ensuring, as is the case in the Government Programme, that this is done without any increase in costs. In fact, this is possible as long as there is good human resources management. And policy in public service must be a human resources management policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u73	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u74	Mr President, Prime Minister, that does not seem to be yours. When will the uncomfortable question pick up the little friends? Oh, my God! That doesn't look like yours, Prime Minister! It is that your sentence is very clear. And I quote again: "The elimination of the evidence to which you referred is not part of our Government's programme." And the evidence that was mentioned was that of the 6. it's 9. years. You removed an exam from the 6th. the year, which I said here in Parliament that I was not going to eliminate. The word that was given was not fulfilled! [[CDS-PP applause.]] And of three: either you didn't know that the Minister of Education was going to eliminate these evidence, which is serious;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u75	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u76	... or you did not prepare, did not train, did not strive for a debate with the opposition, which perhaps made you a little happier, taking into account the friends of the Left Block, but which is equally serious; or you were disauthorised by the Minister of Education, which is unthinkable, Mr Prime Minister! That is why I have to give voice here to many Portuguese people — parents, students, teachers, school directors — who were first puzzled, then worried and, finally, they were terrified of what they heard about what the Minister of Education thinks and says. And, Prime Minister, do you also think that studying for exams is pernicious? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u77	To answer, you have the floor, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u78	Mr. President, Mr. Member, it's not worth having words games... [[Oh, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u79	Mr. Paulo Portas asked me whether it was the intention of the Government to eliminate the examinations of the 6. the year and I referred it to the Government Programme. And what is contained in the Government Programme, and only, is to evaluate the system... [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u80	...to withdraw conclusions. This assessment was made and the conclusions were withdrawn. The essential question is whether or not we agree with the amendments announced by the Government in the meantime. The honourable Member disagrees, and it is in your right; the Government agrees, and it is also in your right. And why do we agree? We do not agree just to disagree with you, we do not agree only to change the system you have introduced; we agree because the understanding we have is that the process of educational evaluation in basic education should be an instrument for learning rather than an instrument for selecting and retaining students.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u81	And why didn't you say that in the Government Programme?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u82	What we understand is that, firstly, it is good to re-evaluate the evaluation by the educators themselves and that, secondly, it is important to restore the measurement to the middle of the cycles so that the collected information can still serve to improve the learning of those children before they finish the cycle. Therefore, the measurement tests are introduced in paragraph 2. year 5. the year and the year 8, maintaining the traditional exam at the end of basic education, i.e. 9. year. This is what has been announced and this is what is being done. And more: I must tell you that this is, firstly, what corresponds to the international standard, which is common in the OECD countries as a whole, which deserved the agreement of the educational community and which will allow an ideologically oriented policy by your government to stop public school being an inclusion school to become an exclusion school. For us, the evaluation process is not a torture of children, we do not want children to learn for the exam; we want the evaluation to be a component of the learning of children for the knowledge that will be useful to them throughout their lives and not for the day they do the test of evaluation. This is the learning that is worth learning, it is the learning that stays and serves for the whole of life. That is our bet and that is the school we want, a school for life and not a school for the day of examination. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u83	He continues to use his right to question the Prime Minister Mr Nuno Magalhães. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, it's not a pun, that's what you said. You referred to the Government Programme and said that there is no elimination of the evidence to which Mr Paulo Portas referred. That is why, Mr President, I would ask that the Minutes of the previous 15-year debate be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u85	No need!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u86	What is at issue, Prime Minister, is not your opinion or my opinion; what is at stake is your word, it is the word that is either given to this Parliament or not and whether Members can trust it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, when he did not deny the Minister of Education, who said that studying, preparing himself, trying to do so was pernicious, offending thousands of Portuguese who studied, prepared themselves, trained themselves, passed exams and who, with this, got better in life. [[CDS-PP applause.]] These Portuguese are listening to you, Prime Minister! And that is the opposite sign of what Portuguese society now demands, as well as the labour market and the global world, which is increasingly competitive. [[BE's protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to move on to another issue, which has to do with... [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u87	By the way, with permission from the Left Block...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u88	Sir, I'm sorry to interrupt you. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing by please leave the Chamber or sit down.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u89	Mr President, you have to cut off this time in the time of the speaker.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u90	Time will be cut, Mr. Deputies. [[Pause.]] You would like to continue, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, the Government announced yesterday that it will propose the direct election of the presidents of the Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto. This measure is in your Government Programme...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u92	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u93	You see? in this case it is not a question of consistency; it is a question of substance. Mr Prime Minister, does this mean, yes or no, the establishment by decree of two more regional governments, two more regional parliaments and two more regional presidents — of Lisbon and Porto — directly elected? Does this mean, yes or no, reopening regionalisation? And I am asking you a question, which is the most democratic of all. The Portuguese rejected regionalisation massively in the referendum. Do you not think that a reform of these can only be done with the legitimacy of a popular consultation? Yes or no? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u94	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u95	Mr President, as I am afraid I will not have time to answer a next question from the CDS, since there is still time available if Mr Nuno Magalhães already asked the next question I answered at the same time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u96	I hadn't responded to the Left Block in our time!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u97	Mr. Prime Minister uses time to understand and CDS-PP as well. Now it is Mr Nuno Magalhães' turn to use the floor. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u98	Mr. Prime Minister, you manage time as well as you understand. He understood to manage his response time to the CDS also responding to the Block ; I turn my time. So you answer the question or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u99	All right, I'll respond with pleasure. But I will no longer answer the next one because, as you know, I will no longer have time to answer your next question, which will be merely rhetorical. First of all, Mr President, there is a fundamental difference that you will have to get used to: we do what we commit to. We are committed to evaluating the examination process; we have evaluated and decided. The decision is announced and will be put into practice. We are committed to the direct election of the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, as it has long been claimed unanimously by the authorities of the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. Is that a way of doing regionalization? It's not! That is why the Constitution itself distinguishes well the creation of the administrative regions of the organisation itself which can be given to metropolitan authorities in Lisbon and Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u100	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u101	Therefore, what the Constitution distinguishes must not be confused. This is where we will work, that is, within the framework of the democratization of the metropolitan areas, as we have long been committed, as is stated in our Government Programme and as it is unanimously claimed by all the authorities, whatever party they are, from the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. That is what we will do, because we have a rule: we have fulfilled our commitments! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u102	Although Mr. Prime Minister no longer has time to respond, the CDS still has time and can use it as a way of understanding. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u103	Mr President, in fact Mr Prime Minister no longer has time, but I want to say that I regret that he used one and a half minute of the CDS response time to respond to the Left Block. So, Mr. Prime Minister didn't answer because he didn't want to! Mr. Prime Minister, what I asked you was whether or not you were going to make a referendum on a reform that creates a president of a metropolitan assembly, a parliament of a metropolitan assembly, a government of a metropolitan assembly. What I asked you was whether this is creating a new political entity or not. And if it is, you can call it what you want, but it is clearly at least similar to regionalisation. And, I repeat, the Portuguese who voted massively against this same referendum have the right to know. And the question is why, indeed, I did not even give my opinion, which, as you will calculate, is very simple, Mr Prime Minister: is you available to do something as democratic and simple as listening to the Portuguese? That seems to bother you. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to raise two other issues for you. With regard to early repayments to the IMF, the arguments presented here do not arrive to explain the decision. Perhaps the fact that you have decided to slow down the deficit explains the decision because the government needs the money from the early repayments, but the result is this, Prime Minister : Portugal will have more debt for more years and the Portuguese and taxpayers will pay more interest, and higher, that you could apply in reforms, improving areas such as education, justice, social security or health. And it should give a complete, not partial but complete reason for this decision that will affect the lives of current and future taxpayers. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In conclusion, Mr. Prime Minister, I am referring to agriculture, where it is undeniable that there has been a wager won by the previous government in recent years,... [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ... in particular when it requested the reprogramming of agricultural funds by 2020 in order to respond to agri-environmental measures and to maintain investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u104	Electoral campaign!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u105	at the time, the Socialist Party, by the voice of candidate Capoulas Santos, agreed with this measure, but suddenly arrived at the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u106	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u107	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, the Socialist Party, by the voice of candidate Capoulas Santos, agreed with this measure, but suddenly arrived at the government, went back and canceled it. Mr. Prime Minister, this is a mistake, a serious mistake and a mistake for many years. So on behalf of the farmers who will be the subject and victims of this mistake, I ask you to restate and correct this issue. Otherwise, we will return to the years 2009 and 2010 when the PRODER had ridiculous executions, and we will leave the work done, where the PRODER has 100 % executions, which, in fact, was what we left you. Therefore, do not ruin, too in this case, the given word, which must be kept. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u108	It is the time of the CFP to ask your questions. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u109	Allow me, Mr President, to interpret the prevailing feeling of all the banks, a word of solidarity for our Azorean compatriots, who are currently faced with the storm that is taking place in the region. [[General applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the interventions of the CDS, such as the one we have just heard, try to forget what were four years of hell, the four years of PSD / CDS government that have infernated the lives of workers, reformers, our entire people, with the coverage and complicity of the current President of the Republic. The struggle that had to be waged to defeat PSD and CDS was a very painful struggle, because it was also very hard all the measures with which PSD and CDS reached the Portuguese. One year ago, in the first 15-year debate of 2015, the Portuguese began the year with a lot of propaganda from the then PSD government / CDS, but with little concrete thing they could hold onto to affirm a prospect of hope for the year that began. Today, in this first half-year debate of 2016, we find that reality is different: the defeat of the PSD and the CDS has allowed us to open up a path of recovery of rights, living conditions, which, even if we do not solve all the problems and concerns of our people, has already allowed us to implement a set of important measures, such as the recovery of wages, the reduction of taxes on labour income, the replacement of holidays, the opening of the way to the replacement of 35 hours of work for all employees of the Public Administration, which is necessary to consolidate. Positive measures have already been taken for workers and for the people. And it is important to remember, in many cases, the right-wing revenge that we are not inventing new rights here, we are merely putting back what is right, what belongs and belongs to workers and pensioners. [[PCP applause.]] This is where I would like to ask you the first question, which has to do with the increase in pensions and reforms. After years of freezing the vast majority of pensions and miscellaneous cuts of their value, in several ways, particularly in the last four years, the decision to freeze by their Government is clearly insufficient, taking into account the high loss of purchasing power verified. This thawing does not correspond to the actual increase that is imposed, and that we think it would be fair, of the value of pensions and reforms. The discount values are manifestly scarce for pensions up to 628 € and the rest will not have any updates again. Also the increase in solidarity complement, being an important measure, cannot mean the continuation of a path of devaluation of the right to update pensions resulting from discounts for social security. We are therefore faced with measures which are still far from the necessary answers. in fact, we cannot be satisfied with the current situation to which pensioners and the elderly were conducted. You can't the government, we can't! We think it is necessary to raise the incomes of the pensioners and the elderly. The defrosting of reforms must be accompanied by the real increase in its values. And the question I have to ask you, Prime Minister, is this: what are the Government's prospects for measures of effective justice for the replacement of income and the purchasing power of all pensioners and pensioners, of effective lifting of lower pensions? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u110	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u111	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, in fact, said one thing that I would like to stress here: much of the measures we have been taking together are measures that are not new advances, they simply represent the replacement of rights that had been sacrificed. I would even say that, to a large extent, it is about doing something that should even be simple and that it should not be worth much wonder, that it is simply to comply with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, as a fundamental law of our rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is that what we are doing with civil servants and pensioners is just so fulfilling the Constitution, and that is the minimum that is required in any rule of law. This return to constitutional normality is a gain of the greatest importance and we have shared the effort to do, although, I know, not always with the rhythm and amplitude that the CFP would like and, I can add, that we too would like. The entry into force of Decree-Law No 254 - B / 2015 allowed an update of pensions well above that which had existed in previous governments and that would remain if the Government had not changed. And it allowed, of course, to undo that myth that, since the election campaign, the PS government had been preparing to lower minimum pensions. Now, what we did was not only raise minimum pensions like going up all pensions up to 628, 28 €. Compared with the previous regime, this implies 2 million pensioners, compared with the 520 000 previously reached. We would also like to be able to go further, but, before the replacement of wages, the updating of pensions, the updating of bonuses, the updating of the solidarity complement for the elderly and the social income of insertion, the reduction of the surcharge, the concentration that we had to do this year of much of this effort, the fruit of the negotiation we have done, we have no conditions to ensure, at this time, that we can go further than what we have been so far. We would like to go, yes, we would like to be able to recover in future years, yes, but, this year of 2016, with this conditioning, we have no conditions to assume that we will go further than what we went and that we announced to go. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u112	You have the floor again, Mr Jerome de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u113	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have recorded the answer and we continue to consider it to be a battle and a commitment that we must continue to value pensions and reforms. I'm going to ask you a second question. We all know of the haste and diligence of the previous government to take forward, to the limit, and beyond the legal limits, a brutal privatisation package. The previous government not only alienated rights and income, alienated wealth, alienated companies in strategic sectors. And, just as it is necessary to return to the workers and reformed what belongs to them, it is also necessary to return to the country what is in the country, its businesses and its strategic sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u115	of the various privatizations that have been ongoing, stands out that of the TAP, being known the position of the PCP, of frontal opposition to the sale of the one that is the largest known national exporter, whose outcome has not yet been clarified, but also that of the CP Cargo. Recently, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure addressed this issue, saying that the Government would continue in the coming days to the privatization that the PSD/CDS government has been meticulously building. There are therefore concerns about the policy of the disposal of strategic assets, the dismemberment of the national railway sector and, in our view, the continuation of a wrong and harmful path for the country, for the economy and for national production. This process will inevitably contribute to the abandonment of the rail transport of goods in the Algarve, the West and other regions, as in fact it contains the business documents now presented. Mr. Prime Minister, looking at the future of the national railway sector, looking at the country's economy, will we or will we not put an end to this escalation, with the sale of the country to the flaps? We need our production equipment, we need our national production and it is not with CP Load privatisation measures that we have achieved this goal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u116	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u117	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, as you know, there is a commitment by this Government not to launch any new privatisation process and to make a great effort to act on some who had been initiated in the previous government and that we believe they should be limited or reverted. This is clearly the case with urban transport in Lisbon and Porto, the case of TAP, where the negotiation process has come and I believe we will be able to comply — I am confident that we will be able to achieve — what is set out in the Government Programme. With regard to Carris and the Metropolitan, it is clear that the Government's position is not to conclude contracts which were not concluded and which had not been even addressed by the Court of Auditors, ensuring what is essential: its maintenance in the public sphere either as regards ownership or as regards management, a decentralization logic for local authorities, which we find absolutely essential so that urban public transport, whether in Lisbon or in Porto, can be at the service of the people, and to ensure a joint effort that we must make so that public transport is getting more and more passengers, is increasingly a better alternative to individual transport and can thus make a decisive contribution to a civilisational fight of the greatest importance we have, which is to limit climate change. This is a challenge that we face and do not comply with the strategy that has been followed in relation to public transport policy, which has caused us to lose 100 million passengers in the last four years in the public transport system in Lisbon and Porto. Let's reverse this situation, it'll be changed. Regarding CP Cargo, the situation is different because the contract was in a different position and because the evaluation we make is also different. And we believe that the implementation of the contract, which was concluded, is what we can do, within the balance solution we have to find on the different fronts in which we are involved in negotiations in the transport sector. In fact, it is my conviction that in the coming years, the country will have to improve more and more the share of goods that flow through the railway. It is not acceptable for the country to continue to have 96 % of its goods on the road and only 4 % on the railway; it is necessary to increase this interconnecting effort of the railway and its component in the carriage of goods. Therefore, it is essential to link the railway to Sines, the improvements in the Aveiro Line in relation to Europe are fundamental, in this intermodality strategy, a good link, in particular, between maritime and rail transport in relation to goods. As for our view of the value of freight transport, I believe that we fully agree. As regards the conditions relating to CP Cargo, this is one of those points for which we do not agree on either the purposes or the conditions. [[Congrats from the PS and PCP MP Jerome de Sousa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u118	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I remember the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are conducting elections for members of various bodies, including the Portuguese Information System Supervisory Board, the National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products and the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, and who will close the poll 15 minutes after the end of the regiment votes. To put questions to Mr Prime Minister, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u119	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is true that the railway has the importance that you mentioned here. That is why I appeal here to the Prime Minister to move quickly to draw up the national railway plan, which, at the initiative of the Greens, came to the Assembly of the Republic and was approved as a recommendation to the Government. Therefore, our appeal is for the government to work quickly—but of course, of course! — to ensure that this railway plan is drawn up and can be discussed. On the subject of education, Mr Prime Minister, I think we should think about this: how many Portuguese will exist in Portugal who have never taken an examination in 4. year, number 6. the year or even 9. the year? The question is: will you consider the right that these Portuguese are more disqualified? I don't think they'll have the courage to say that until I really think you don't think so. So, what is important is to focus on education is about the learning conditions and the success of learning, depending on such diverse realities in our country. For example, will there be any problem where learning is measured by measurement tests rather than by evaluation tests? I don't think so! But to the right, it seems that what matters is that the examination has to count for the note and that continuous evaluation is not worth anything. Is this not an extraordinarily retrograde view of education, Prime Minister? [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Another point that I would like to raise to you — in fact, I have already raised it to the former Government — and on which I would like to see further chapters in this mandate, is related to asbestos. It was the end of the work, it was an entire legislature behind the previous government to list public buildings with asbestos, and even at the end of the term of office there came the list. But this does not complete what the Law No. 2 / 2011 says, it needs more. It is now necessary to make an action plan, in order to realize, of those buildings that contain asbestos, in which buildings will be done a monitoring work and in which buildings will be done a removal work. I'd like to know, Prime Minister, when we can count on that action plan. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u120	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u121	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, thank you very much for your questions. In fact, the right has a discourse on education that confuses what is rigor and demands in school. The rigor and the requirement at school is not on the day of examination,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u122	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u123	... it's during the learning that we do at school for the whole of our life. Therefore, what is essential is the learning that children acquire along the educational course. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Therefore, do the measurement test number 2. the year is to make the education system more rigorous. And more rigorous why? Because early on, children's education needs can be detected, so that they can conclude 1. the cycle in better conditions than only in 4. the year in which, when evaluated, it is concluded that they had not acquired the necessary learning along their educational course and the only solution is traumatize them,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u124	« Traumatize them »? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u125	...retaining them, separating them from colleagues, interrupting their educational course, raping them, to repeat what they should and could have learned in the 3rd. a is 4. the years if the measurement had been made in good time in 2. year. No, the model we have is not a model of facilitation, it is a model of greater rigour and, above all, of greater efficiency in the learning and educational process of children. That's what has to be at the heart of our concerns. It is the consistency of this model that makes the measurement test exist in the middle of 1. the cycle, in the middle of 2. the cycle and in the middle of 3. the cycle, even in 3. the cycle, completion of basic education, there is a proof of final evaluation. In fact, what the Minister of Education said was not that studying was harmful. What the Minister of Education said was harmful was to impress on the children this pilgrimage idea that it is important to know on the day of the examination and then to forget what has been learned over the course of life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Now, what matters is not learning to be careful. What matters is to learn what is useful and necessary and what are the tools we lead to life. That's fundamental! And all of us who took exams well know what we kept useful and what we acquired very useless and that we had to push to pass the exam, but that had no use in life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u126	On the question of asbestos, what we are doing is just reviewing the map of interventions in order to graduate and prioritize interventions based on the degree of seriousness. The commitment we have made is that the situations called « level four » will be completed by the end of the school year 2016 - 2017, so that we can meet the objective of having better quality and safer schools for those who use them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u127	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia still has time, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u128	Mr President, Prime Minister, be careful, because buildings with asbestos are not just school buildings, there are many others, such as ministries and other public bodies. I would like to appeal to Mr Prime Minister that this plan to be drawn up on asbestos intervention may be made public, taking into account not only school buildings but also other public bodies. I know that in terms of education, intervention is a little more ahead than in other ministries, but it was important that this should be public, because it is a rest factor for people who attend and work daily in these public buildings to realize what kind of intervention is needed or what kind of intervention is going to be done. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u129	I consider this to be extremely important. Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to draw your attention to one more aspect. With regard to the position of the right in this Parliament — and this is very curious — it is very elaborate...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u130	« Tramado»? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u131	... when people do one thing in the government and then in the opposition, they do another completely different to win sympathy, when we realize it's not their full conviction, but it's just to win the sympathy of the population. And, Mr. Prime Minister, this is going to happen several times. It happened, for example, with regard to the Seixal hospital. As long as they were in the government, they never even refused to build this hospital. How good, Mr. Prime Minister, we arrived here and we approved the draft resolution that the Sixal hospital would be built! The right, now, to get sympathy, to win the sympathy of the people, there ended up approving the draft resolution. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u132	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u133	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. The same happened with regard to the East Line. They closed the Line, removed mobility rights from the populations—while they were in the government, they did nothing else! — we have now arrived, Mr Prime Minister, and we have tabled a draft resolution on this matter and I hope that it will be approved tomorrow. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, it is very discrediting to do something in the government and do something else in the opposition. That is why the appeal now also goes to a different way of making politics. Making a policy is truly fulfilling all the commitments that have been made. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and PS Members.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u134	To put questions, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u135	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in Portugal, the tourism sector is a key pillar of your economy. We are also aware of the sharp correlation between unemployment and the increase in poverty. in this sense, Prime Minister, we do not accept that we are completely mortgageting our tourism sector, namely the beaches, with the granting of oil and natural gas exploration platforms along these areas, which leads to a very high risk of environmental disaster. In the event of an accident, Mr Prime Minister, we will see defining unique ecosystems, as well as the main economic activity of the Algarve, tourism, which still works as a lever for the rest of the economic life sectors of the region, which will cause a strong increase in unemployment in this sector and generate poverty. Mr Prime Minister, would you not expect this government to have the audacity to break up with the current obsolete paradigm in which everything is subject to the economy? Is it really necessary to continue to disregard a heritage that belongs to all of us?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u136	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u137	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I had the opportunity, in the previous question, to answer exactly that question,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u138	He didn't answer anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u139	... by stating that we consider it absolutely essential for the country to know its natural resources and to continue prospecting operations and that it must do so and make final decisions, while, of course, assessing the best use of its resources. And the natural resources of the country are certainly those we already know, from the very beginning those that provide us the beaches and the Algarve sun, but also natural resources that we believe may exist and that we need to identify, in particular, the geological resources, know what indeed exists, in which conditions of exploitation exists and how it is compatible with its exploitation with other values that we cannot and should not sacrifice. The Government will continue its prospecting work and there will of course be a due assessment of the costs and benefits of any solution and any steps taken in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u140	As time is still available, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u141	Mr President, Prime Minister, the intention of this government and the former Government is not only and only to know what is below the ground. The contracts I have had the opportunity to read provide for exploration and exploitation of oil and natural gas with techniques that are totally harmful to the environment and to all of us. Therefore, the NAP will continue to struggle for what is the common good, the heritage of all of us. And because not everything must be subordinated to the economy, we do not need this exploitation. [[Congratulations from BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u142	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u143	Mr President, I no longer have to add to the reply I gave not only to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia but also to Mr Heloísa Apolónia recently. That is to say that there are contracts that are in force and must be fulfilled; that there is a prospect that must be and will be done; that it is necessary to safeguard that, in no case, fundamental environmental values are sacrificed; that this should not lead to a change in the economic profile of the Algarve region and the Alentejan coast. So I think we should continue, we should be measuring, we should be evaluating and we should ensure the compatibility of the different values. However, we cannot, of course, call into question contracts that are in force or, of course, jeopardise the non-use of geological resources that can be used by the country, bearing in mind that we cannot sacrifice other essential values.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u144	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister. Thank you for the presence of the Members. Members of the Government who may, if they so understand, leave. Before we proceed to the vote, I ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to proceed with the reading of the file. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the following legislative initiatives: draft resolutions 84 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Impact studies in trade negotiations in the outermost regions ( PSD ), which fall to 4. the Commission, 85 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by complying with Directive 1999 / 70 / EC on the link in the teaching career ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 86 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of Metro Mondego and replacement, modernization and electrification of the Ramal da Lousã ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 87 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Launch of a Cultural Intervention Program in Brazil, following the fire at the Museum of the Portuguese Language of São Paulo ( PSD ), which drops to 12. the Commission ; and draft deliberation No 3 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Composition of delegations to international parliamentary organizations ( RA President ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u146	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, I ask the services to activate the electronic system and then the Members to register in order to verify the quorum. As you know, the touch screen is used, but if it does not work, they have, as an alternative, the mouse on the keyboard. [[Pause.]] I wonder if all the gentlemen. Members were able to register. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic picture records 219 presences, to which 2 are added, of the members of the PS João Galamba and João Torres, by means of 221 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let's start with vote No 27 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Despite the death of former Member Manuel Ferreira Martins ( PSD ). I call on Mr Duarte Pacheco to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died on Monday, January 11, at 71 years of age Manuel Ferreira Martins. It was a Portuguese with recognized parliamentary activity, in local power, in the trade union movement and civic associations and an example according to its coherence, commitment and courage. Militant No 105 of the PSD, the Social Democratic Party, was appointed by this party to the Constituent Assembly and the Assembly of the Republic in I, II, III, IV and V Legislatures. in local power, he was a councilman and member of the Municipal Assembly of Gondomar. in the Trade Union Movement, he served as Chairman of the Workers Commission, President of the Union and National Secretary of the UGT and head of the TSD — Social Democrats workers. A good, supportive, and friendly man broke up. Its disappearance is an irreparable loss for social democracy, for the trade union movement, for local power and for all its many friends who have worked or lived with it. To all, Manuel Martins, an honest man, conveyed knowledge and values of undeniable merit. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 15 January 2016, expresses its sorrow and expresses its condolences to all the family and friends.”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u148	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 28 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Despite the death of former Deputy Pedro Amadeu of Albuquerque Santos Coelho ( PS ). I call on the Secretary, Mrs Idália Serrão, to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died on Tuesday, January 12, at the age of 75, Pedro Amadeu de Albuquerque Santos Coelho. Founder of the Socialist Party, still abroad, and his activist No. 13, Pedro Coelho distinguished himself for his fight for freedom and democracy before and after 25 April. He has been leader of the Socialist Party ever since, growing successively admiration and respect on the part of his comrades and his contemporaries from all parties. Graduated in Pharmacy, by the classical University of Lisbon, and in Industrial Chemical Engineering, by the Higher Technical Institute, having more recently completed the PADE—High Business Management Program by the Association of Higher Business Studies (AESE ), Pedro Coelho also credited himself as a manager of recognized qualities and seriousness. He held various positions where he revealed his competence and professionalism, especially as a manager, especially in the TTCs, Tabaqueira, EP, Telefónica Sistemas de Portugal and Portugal Telecom. Their political action was particularly relevant at the government level in the years immediately following the Revolution. He was Secretary of State for Immigration between 1974 and 1975 and Fisheries between 1975 and 1979. in the Assembly of the Republic, he served as a member, elected by the circles of Faro and Santarém. He was a Member of the Constituent Assembly, as a result of his election in the first democratic elections held in Portugal. Pedro Coelho was also a civic activist, in addition to his party participation, involving himself in the associative movement. He was also a vital member of the General Council of the Fundación Mário Soares and a member of the Board of Auditors of the Fundação Res Publica. in the sports field, he served as leader at the International Club of Foot-Ball and president of the Lisbon Tennis Association and the Portuguese Tennis Federation. Also in the sports movement was highlighted by joining the Higher Council of Sport. Deeply linked to democratic and humanist principles and values, both in its political course and in its civic and professional course, Pedro Coelho has been and will always be worthy of our greatest recognition and an honor for the Assembly of the Republic to have him among its servants. To the bereaved family, the Assembly of the Republic presents the most sympathy».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u150	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence in memory of those personalities. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The vote on draft resolution No 3 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Composition of delegations to international parliamentary organizations ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we now vote on draft resolution No 49 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the new prison establishment in Ponta Delgada ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 79 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new prison establishment on the island of São Miguel ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 69 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by requalifying the current and construction of new building of the prison establishment of Ponta Delgada ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we voted on draft resolution No 75 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new prison establishment in Ponta Delgada ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote of Bill No 18 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Replacement of 35 hours of weekly work in the Public Administration ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u151	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u152	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u153	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u154	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Replies 35 hours per week as a normal period of work in the civil service, making the third amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 180 / XII ( 3 ) follows. ( a ) — Sets the duration of the normal working period of workers in public service in the Autonomous Region of the Azores ( ALRAA ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, votes against the CDS-PP and abstention from the PSD.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 96 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Thirty-five hours for increased job creation and replacement of rights in civil service ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We now vote, also in general, Bill No. 97 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish 35 hours as a normal working time for employees in public service ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill also drops to 10. the Commission. The vote on draft resolution No 45 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures to finance specialized artistic music and dance schools to ensure their stability ( CFP ). Since the CFP withdrew points 1 and 2, the vote shall consist only of points 3, 4 and 5. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 78/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Financing of artistic education ( BE ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] If no one opposes us, we shall proceed to the joint vote on draft resolutions 80/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PS ), 81 / XIII ( 1. ( BE ), 82 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( The Greens) and 83 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 182 / 2015 of 31 August, which defines the procedures for the regularization of the debts of the extinct House of Douro with the nature of the public association, in accordance with Decree-Law No 152 / 2014 of 15 October[ Parliamentary assessments n. 10 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( BE) and 5 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. [[Pause.]] Once no one opposes us, we're going to vote. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 6 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reintroduce the public passenger transport service in the East Line throughout its route ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u155	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u156	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u157	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u158	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I remember the ladies. Members voting, in general, on the proposal for a law No 346 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — Creation of the Children's Observatory ( ALRAM ) was postponed to a next session. We then proceed to the general vote on Bill No 186 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 54 / 2005 of 15 November establishing the ownership of water resources ( ALRAA ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, BE and PAN, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PSD Deputies António Ventura, Berta Cabral, Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa were adopted.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u159	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u160	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u161	Mr President, it is only to inform that the Members elected by the electoral circle of Madeira will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u162	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u163	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u164	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u165	Mr President, it is also to inform that the Left Block will present a statement of vote on the matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u166	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Carlos Costa Neves, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u167	Mr President, I would also like to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-15.u168	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we now generally vote on Bill No 323 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — I have established a family farming support scheme in the Autonomous Region of the Azores ( ALRAA ). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the projects of lein. 64 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Code of Criminal Procedure by limiting the application of the summary procedure to minor crimes ( Twenty-fourth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure ) ( PCP ), 68 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Code of Criminal Procedure, repealing the possibility of judging in summary proceedings crimes with criminal frameworks over 5 years of imprisonment ( BE) and 72 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted by Decree-Law No 78 / 87 of 17 February, eliminating the possibility of judgments in summary proceedings for crimes punishable by imprisonment of more than 5 years ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, submitted by the Health Committee, on Bill No 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — National strategy for the prevention and control of epidemics of dengue fever ( ALRAM ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We have thus reached the end of the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary session is held on Wednesday, 20 January, with the following agenda item: from point 1, there is the urgent debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group on the replacement of social supplements and the fight against poverty. In point 2, the joint discussion of lein.o 17 / XIII projects ( 1 ) is followed. ( a ) — Prevents deliberate cultivation and release in the environment of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs) ( The Greens) and 69 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — It prohibits the cultivation, import and marketing of genetically modified organisms ( BE). Finally, discussion-CL will be, in general, draft law No. 9 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Replaces pension supplements in state business enterprises ( CFPs ). Before we close the work, I would like to remind you. Members who still run the elections scheduled for today's session. I wish everyone a good weekend. [[It was 12 hours and 15 minutes.]]
