ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries. Mrs. Members, as you know, in the context of the discussion, in the speciality, of Bill No 37 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the State Budget for 2017, on our agenda, the discussion of articles and proposals for amendment by the plenary, as well as of articles and proposals for amendment sent to the plenary, available to the Government and each five-minute parliamentary group, which will not be exceeded, given that the work must be done in a way that ends at normal time, and also includes the vote on these rules. Then we will continue with the continuation of the discussion, in the specialty, of that bill. As the government is not yet present, we will take a brief break. We have to wait for the government since it will take part in the first item on our agenda, otherwise we would start immediately. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, until the members of the government arrive, I recall that there are several lawyers we are going to discuss today : four of the CDS-PP, three of the BE, five of the PSD, two of the PCP and one of the NAP. The gentlemen. Members may begin to sign up for time. [[Pause.]] Since the government is already present, we will begin the discussion of the rules of law. First of all, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the fight against precariousness is one of the effective marks of this budget, but also of a majority of Parliament discussing, proposing and reaching conclusions on the execution of this same struggle. Thus, the extension of Law No 63 / 2013, known as the law against precariousness, is a very significant advance in the legalization of real labor relations that are headed by other methods. In addition to the false green receipts, more than 1000 were still recognized with contract. It now extends to false stages and false bags any bounded labor relationship. It is also important to ensure that the contract of employment is not dismissed during the process of recognition, thus adding a security factor that is so often lacking to these workers. Combating precariousness in the state and also in each company is the way, but, of course, it will still have to go further. however, we know that there are those who do not want this path, because, although today they are defenders of precariousness, they do not forget who put them in precariousness. And the vote on the proposal in question will make sure of this: whoever wants to end the precariousness or whoever wants to perpetuate it as a social model. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u3	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this article is nothing more than an attempt to make a political number, in which the radical left says it is the only one who is concerned about the precariousness. With regard to the adoption of this article last Friday, I leave two notes. First, the PSD Parliamentary Group has always fought and will always fight all the bad work practices and will always work in this direction, as was the example of the decisive role it played in the adoption of Law No 63 / 2003, where they effectively combat the bad work practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u5	All right! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u6	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I leave a second note on this article to point out that what they say is not what they do. This article has no rigor and has allowed them to admit bad work practices. Look what you've approved. You have adopted the limit on the abuse of the precarious forms of employment. Limit the abuse? Oh, my God! The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, are you admitting you're abusing the law? Mrs. Members, the abuse of the law is not limited, it is eliminated, prevented and fought. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u7	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here to talk about the CDS' lawyers, and that is the same thing as saying that I am talking about differences, because, in fact today, we are advocating three articles and three concrete proposals from the CDS that show the difference that unfortunately separates us from the government and the parties that support it. The first proposal could solve a very specific problem, that of the elderly who need help, in some cases to do their hygiene or their food. Therefore, we propose that the costs involved may be deducted from the IRS. It is a fair proposal, I believe, and so they also found the Block and the PCP, which at first made it viable. Only this proposal had a sad fate: it was viable for 10 or 15 minutes until the management works and, of course, send it down.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u9	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u10	Today we have a second chance to solve this problem to several families. We are, of course, available for any amendment that you think is important or essential, but please approve this proposal, not for us, but for the families you need. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u11	Second difference: our proposal on the lease. The government, when you think there is a problem, for example in renting, resolves to tax more what is going on well ; the CDS resolves to tax less what it wants to encourage. They are two very different ways to solve a problem and that make the difference well. Third difference: asset revaluation. The CDS knows that it is necessary to bet on recapitalisation and help businesses, but what the CDS also knows is that the ride of this objective, which is good, is not worth everything and, above all, it is not worth approving what is a real PPP (public-private partnership) tax saying 'pay now, solve the deficit problem for two or three years and then the Portuguese taxpayer will pay the bill for the next 10 years' and make a measure for companies that pay contributions, as is the case for energy companies, who will have a special regime and a tailor-made fact. For the purposes of IRC, they have assets assessed in a manner and, for the purpose of their contribution, they have assets evaluated in another way. It is extraordinary that, who speaks in justice, who talks in social justice and who so much cries for help to SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises), now proposes a regime of these. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u12	Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the hypocrisy of the right in tax and IRS matters is impressive. For four years, from 2011 to 2015, they only used the IRS for the largest tax draw on workers'income in Portugal, a mid-class tax draw and a low-class tax draw for families with lower incomes. To the right, the IRS served to be under a blind austerity, in which taxes were brutally increased. It has been the largest tax increase since 25 April. PSD and CDS were unable to look at IRS as an effective opportunity for fairer income redistribution. Repeat: PSD and CDS have used IRS for the greatest tax increase since April 25. Let us recall the main changes that the former PSD/CDS Government promoted in the IRS between 2011 and 2015 : it cut 50 % in the Christmas allowance; it cut in the deductions on health expenses; it cut in the deductions on education expenses; it cut in the deductions on household expenses; it cut in the deductions on food pension expenses; it reduced the unpaid portion of the meal allowance; it increased the tax on termination compensations of work contracts; it reduced the specific deductions of pensions; it changed the steps of the IRS, thereby aggravating the average rate of IRS by 20 %; it increased the maximum rate of IRS by 48 %; it increased the liberating rate from 25 % to 28 %; it imposed on all levels an overtax of 3, 5 %; it introduced the extraordinary contribution of solidarity; and it introduced a highly unfair measure, which was the family quotient. There was a brutal increase in taxes on behalf of budgetary targets that were never met and the tax burden reached its historic peak in 2015. From 2014 to 2015, Portugal was the OECD country which increased the tax burden for low-income workers. For four years, PSD and CDS have brought to businesses and families a moment of enormous fiscal instability: 83 tax changes in VAT, IRS, IRC, vehicle tax, single traffic tax, etc. It does not help to pretend that they did not govern the country between 2011 and 2015, but it does not help to pretend that they do not remember the 2015 Stability Programme that they presented to the European Commission and it does not help to pretend that they do not remember the Government Programme that they presented a year ago. This Stability Programme and the Government Programme supported the maintenance of the supertax until 2019, supported a pension cut of EUR 600 million, supported the decrease in the extraordinary contribution on the energy sector to help companies such as REN, Galp and EDP, supported the maintenance of the supertax and the cutting of pensions, also supported the freezing of the IRS steps and the maintenance of the family quotient, this unfair measure in which the son of a richer family is worth more than the son of a poorest family. These would be your options if they were government today. In fact, if they were still government and if they were still a parliamentary majority today, we would be dealing with the shameful measure that you have always opposed for four years, which was the failure by the Tax Authority of own and permanent dwellings for tax debts. And what is proposed in the chapter of the IRS for 2017? There is a tax reduction within IRS in this Budget for next year. The Portuguese will pay less IRS, 91 % of the taxable persons will no longer pay the overtax of IRS from January 1, there is a deduction with expenditure on public transport and there is an update of the steps of IRS at the rate of inflation, which you did not do during the four years when you kept the steps of IRS frozen from the reform they made from the steps themselves. For the Socialist Party, the IRS must be an inducing instrument of progressive and fiscal justice to serve an increasingly fairer policy of redistribution of incomes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u14	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presented various proposals in the area of culture at the level of artistic creation and cultural heritage, with a view to achieving the necessary path of greater democratization of culture in our country. We therefore presented a proposal for a reinforcement of €925 000 of the money intended to carry out the competitions for support for the arts to be added to the reinforcement announced by the Government to cover and progressively support more and more applications, on the basis of the analysis of the number of candidates eligible, but not envisaged. We also point out the return on a proposal from the CFP to the Literary Creation Support Programme. We believe that access to cultural creation is the greatest dimension of the right to culture, in accordance with the principle enshrined in the Constitution, and support for literary creation should be seen from this point of view. Therefore, we have put forward a proposal for the repayment of these support already in 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u17	Another important measure that we presented at the State Budget was the replacement of freeness at the entrance to national museums and monuments on Sundays and holidays until 14 hours, in order to extend the use of these spaces and encourage the population to their regular frequency. We do not forget the situation of fragility and the need for greater investment in national museums and monuments, so we have seen a compensation mechanism in the proposal presented corresponding to the entries recorded these days. Cultural exploitation and creation are rights with constitutional support that the CFP will continue to defend intransigently. We defend that culture is not a luxury or a privilege but rather a pillar of the democratic regime and condition for the integral formation of the individual essential for individual and collective emancipation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u18	Mr Jorge Falcato, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the academic year 2013 / 2014 were enrolled in public higher education 1167 students with special educational needs in a universe of 301,654 students, i.e. 0, 39%. In view of this percentage of students with special educational needs, active policies are needed to facilitate and encourage the frequency of this level of education. It is necessary for inclusive school to be a reality at all levels of education and to open the doors of higher education to disabled students. The existence of accessible residences, personalized pedagogical support, personal assistance and adaptation of teaching materials and curricula is essential. But this isn't enough! There is at first an economic barrier. We must not forget that the additional cost of living for families with disabilities is between €5100 and €26,300 annually. It's all right to relieve these families of spending with the tips. That is what we guarantee with this proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u20	Mr João Ramos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, the enhancement and increase of national production is one of the vectors of patriotic and left-wing policy that the CFP defends for the country and for this it is essential to value sectors such as small and medium-sized enterprises, family farming or small coastal and craft fishing. in its intervention, the PCP has always sought to value these sectors. To this end, and on a proposal from the CFP, local fishing will start to have a discount on the price of gasoline used in its engines ; on a proposal from the CFP, agricultural gas oil may have a reduction of 3 cents for agriculture with a consumption of up to 1000 €. The CFP has also proposed that small farmers with farms up to 50 will be able to have a discount on the electricity account through the creation of a green electricity scheme, which will also benefit cooperatives and producer organisations. The CFP also proposed that the State directly assume more responsibility in the animal health system through the Budget and therefore proposed a strengthening of EUR 2 million. Similarly on a proposal from the CFP, the Laboratory of the Inter-Professional Association of Milk and Milk and other inter-professional structures of the agri-food sector that are publicly-utilized entities may have access to tax benefits at the head of IRC as have other public-utilitarian entities. These measures will alleviate the difficulties of these sectors and will break with the policies of the PSD and the CDS that need to be done. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u22	Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD presented a set of proposals aimed at regaining investor confidence by giving evidence that the reform of the IRC was, in fact, a national commitment and that Portugal is a country of confidence for companies and investors. We regret that the Socialist Party itself which signed the IRC reform is now the main responsible for fiscal instability and for breaking up a reform that had brought more revenue to the state’s coffers. This is a government without any strategy, which will only satisfy small customers, but which does not satisfy the interests of the country. When countries like Hungary fall to 9 % the rate for companies, Portugal is out of the group of countries with better conditions for investors. Today we give a new opportunity for the Socialist Party to portray itself to honour the commitment, to approve the PSD proposals and to resume the reform of IRC. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u24	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we propose a measure to Parliament which aims to bring about the recent Law No 27 / 2016, which establishes the end of the slaughter in municipal canes as a population control policy, by creating additional conditions so that municipalities can give the urgent response to this scourge that still lives in Portugal. The extent to which we propose and which will be voted on shortly is very concrete: the state's urgent verification of the conditions of the network of Official Animal Collection Centres throughout the country, already in the first half of 2017, and the subsequent investment support, at the value of one million euros, in the construction or rehabilitation of these equipment in most needy municipalities that are intended to apply. Obviously this value will not solve all existing problems. This value constitutes support for executives who genuinely intend to change the paradigm of the management and public relations of the abandoned animal population. in respect of pets, since 2001 it is mandatory for municipalities to be equipped with specific and appropriate infrastructures to implement public policies of protection and animal welfare. After approximately 15 years, it is observed that of the 308 Portuguese municipalities, only 180 have official animal collection centres and, of these, only a part meets the legal requirements for the housing of animals, and many others need restructuring works. But they ask the Portuguese: why are there so many and so many municipalities that do not have a minimally decent channel that guarantees decent treatment for animals, as is the case in the city of Porto, run by an executive who treats animals as garbage? The Portuguese ask: in the municipalities there is money for everything and something else and there is no money to implement public animal protection policies? There is money in the municipalities for the construction and rehabilitation of bull markets, which some designate as cultural centres; there is money in the municipalities for the construction of chicken race tracks, which some designate as sports activities; there is money in the municipalities for the fitting lighting of Christmas; there is money in the municipalities for Christmas cabazes, which are distributed by whom they do not need; there is money in the municipalities for the construction of wave pools; there is money in the municipalities for lunches and dinners-convivials with memories at the end; there is money in the municipalities for luxurious festivals of many hundreds of euros; there is money in the municipalities for large fireworks; there is money in the municipalities for municipal programs of investment attraction, which serve to justify many wrong investments; there is money in the municipalities for the construction of rounds with luxurious sources of light and art of bad taste; there is money in the municipalities for works of dubious necessity. There's money in the municipalities for all this and it's scary! , in many cases, in interventional authorities, and there is no money in municipalities to build a simple channel and to adopt animal protection policies? Oh, my God! Isn't there? There! Of course, there are, but many camera presidents and many councillors continue to refuse to invest in infrastructure and policies that are a requirement of Portuguese. Many executives, as is the disturbing and worrying case of Porto, continue not to follow the change of consciences and the civilizational evolution that takes place in Portugal. There is a lot of talk about the issue of deficit, but there are many cases at the level of local management in which it is noted that there is a lot of care and concern about the immediate, with public charges that do not have a useful return to the citizens. This is a measure that comes by the hand of the NAP and that the Government welcomes that it is its duty to give effect to the law and to want to jointly write another chapter in the history of animal protection and rights in Portugal. And because this civilizational step is not only a political responsibility, but above all an ethical emancipation of this Parliament, we are sure that all parliamentary groups will follow this measure unanimously. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Rosa Maria Albernaz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u26	Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Block of Left brought to this Budget a set of proposals on public school and support for families who have children and daughters in public school. We have presented a set of social response measures in relation to the canteens. We believe that it is a social emergency response that the canteens of schools can give during the holiday period the quality of meals in the canteens, as well as some other measures that we consider urgent. We have also put forward two other proposals, which we have now decided to advocate, because we believe that all benches deserve an opportunity to reflect a little better on them in order to achieve unanimity. They are old family demands and correspond to matters of justice, one of which is related to school textbooks. This government, to ensure free access to education, to ensure compliance with the Constitution, has taken one of the most important measures in recent years, which was the freeness of school textbooks of 1. the cycle. This is a very important measure, that we want it to be progressive and that it takes all the teaching cycles, but, as long as that does not happen, and despite the freezing of the price of school textbooks, which has been another achievement since the government, school textbooks continue to have a very large weight in the family budget, even of some families that do not have such low incomes that they can access to step A and step B of the School Social Action. Still, at the time of buying school textbooks in September, especially in certain cycles in which they are very expensive, these families are experiencing difficulties in meeting this obligation, so that their children have a quality education. For this reason, the Left Block proposes a step C of School Social Action, which in future we think can be extended, but which at present will provide monetary support of about 25 % of Step A in the purchase of school textbooks. This is a very important measure, as it is important a measure of justice so that, once and for all, school meals in the canteens can be deductible to IRS collection. A family that has a child in a private school can deduct in the IRS transportation, meals and everything else, because everything comes only in an invoice, but a family that has a child in a public school has a set of expenses that are associated with the frequency of education but which are not deductible in the IRS. From now on, school meals will become deductible within IRS, and this is an important measure. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u28	Mr Cristóvão Crespo, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this State budget is very bad for the Portuguese, but unfortunately it is not reformable. Therefore, the PSD proposals go beyond that, go to structural aspects that need to be preserved, such as taking up a path of fiscal predictability in terms of IRS and IRC. On the other hand, the PSD proposals aim to strengthen national savings by involving workers in the capital of companies, but the socialist, blogger and communist majority rejects that workers invest in the company they work in. We are also here to denounce the consolidation and aggravation of a large tax increase. The new overtax created used the technique of giving a lighter version of the budget proposal and aggravated it during the budgetary procedure. The amendment exempts those who would no longer pay and severely aggravated 4. the IRS step. Socialists and bloggers are very concerned about offshore people, but they allow reformed disabled people to be severely injured in relation to the rest in IRS. Asset income is considered by 85 % and those reformed by 90 %, so I do not see where the concern of the PS, PCP and Left Block groups is about disabled pensioners. In conclusion, in addition to all that we have been referring to, we cannot forget what was not updating the steps of the IRS, not updating the deductions in education and health with the ascendants and with the dependents. It is, in fact, a significant increase in taxes. In fact, the Socialist Party says that the PSD/CDS government did not update these steps, but, Mr. Members, the values that still exist are those that have been approved in the reform of the IRS made by the governments of the Social Democratic Party. And you are already going into the second budget of the state you are presenting! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u30	You have the floor for one speech, Mr State Secretary for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u31	Mr President, in fact, on income taxes, it is possible to observe, even with some interesting detail, the different options of the parties. But it is also possible to observe another interesting thing, which are the different options of the parties according to which they are, in fact, in the government or in the opposition. Let's start with the option in the opposition. The CDS says: « Our way is to descend taxes». But the CDS route is only taxed when it's not in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u32	in the last year of the government was also.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u33	If we look at the last Stability Programme delivered by the previous Government, we find that none of the tax measures representing loss of revenue were provided for in that document. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Obviously, it is the type of proposals that the CDS makes only when it is not in the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u34	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u35	We will also see what tax reduction measures are proposed on the left and right. The main tax reduction, as Mr Cristóvão Crespo has just mentioned, is the extinction of overtax #2. the step immediately on January 1 and its progressive extinction throughout 2017. We all know that the overtax had, in its original design, a character that contradicts the progressiveity of the tax and even the mechanism of extinction itself was made by reintroducing this progressiveity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u36	That's not true either!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u37	But what are the other income tax measures? The CDS and PSD would reduce the taxation of capital gains, the taxation of capital incomes, the taxation of incomes that workers take from shares. But we all know the steps of workers who are typically paid in actions, we all know that it is not generally a remuneration instrument that is available to all workers. Therefore, the fundamental feature of the proposals on the right is that they are tax reliefs to holders of higher incomes, contrary to those proposals that included both the State budget proposal and the amendments that were approved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u38	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, it is extraordinary to hear Mr. Secretary of State. But I understand you're going that way. I'd like to remind you that the reform of the IRS is, yes, a reduction in taxes and that has been done...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u40	by the former government!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u41	... by the CDS and PSD, by the former Government. But I would also like to remember, since Mr. João Paulo Correia decided to come here, together with the discussion, in general, of the 2016 Budget, to discuss the contribution in the energy sector...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u42	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u43	I find the PS strategy extraordinary when we come here to say that we were defending companies like Galp, REN and EDP while at the same time making it possible to reassess assets, which is a custom-made fact for these companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u44	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u45	... that while they reassess assets to pay less IRC in the future, they continue to have them with exactly the same value to pay the same contribution to the energy sector. It's extraordinary and it's necessary to have a tin...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u46	« Cat hidden with the tail outside»!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u47	...for parties like the PCP and the Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u48	It's a ball!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u49	... that so many times they were talking about this and talking about it in SMEs, now that they can talk about property taxes, they are willing to make any tax bills for large companies instead. It is extraordinary and they need to have the opportunity to talk about it at the same time as they are approving tax PPPs, especially for these companies. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a very concrete proposal, which has to do with elderly people who live in their homes or their families and who need help for their hygiene or food. Our proposal is that these expenses may be deducted from the IRS. It's as simple as this. If they think they're right, vote! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u50	With no further inscriptions, we have reached the end of the discussion of the rules of law. We turn to the second item on the agenda, which consists of voting on the rules of law. We are going to check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 210 presences, which are added to those of the Members. Members Helena Roseta, of the PS, and José de Matos Correia and Miranda Calha, of the PSD, who were unable to register, therefore 213 Members are present. We must therefore proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting on proposal 49 - C, tabled by the CFP, to add Article 109. o-D — Opening of tenders under the Literary Creation Support Programme. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on proposal 171 - C, submitted by BE, to add Article 127. o -A — Extension of the law against precariousness. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on proposal 161 - C, submitted by BE, to add Article 130. o-B — Additional support for the acquisition of school textbooks to students of basic and secondary education. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 128 - C, submitted by BE, on the addition of Article 132. o-B — Students with a disability of 60 % or more. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 114 - C, submitted by the NAP, on the addition of Article 143. o -A - Animal collection centres. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We moved on to Article 144. o — Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons. If there is no objection, we shall vote on proposal 184 - C, submitted by the PSD, in the part in which it replaces Article 10 ( 12 ). the part where paragraph 3 is added to Article 43. the IRS Code. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall now vote under Article 144. the proposal for a law, proposal 341 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, in the part in which it replaces paragraph 1 ( e ) and adds a new point ( c ) to Article 72 ( 2 ). the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 184 - C submitted by the PSD, in the part where a new paragraph 7 is added to Article 72. the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] Proposal 247 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, should also be voted on to add Article 78 ( e ) ( 1 ). the IRS Code. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 148. o — IRS overload. Firstly, proposal 422 - C, submitted by the PS, should be voted on to replace Article 148. o. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, as a result of the approval of proposal 422 - C, the vote on Article 148. The proposal of the law. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 151. o — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons ( IRC ), in which it is important first to vote on proposal 205 - C, submitted by the CFP, amending Article 10 ( 1 )( c ). the IRC Code. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on proposal 181 - C submitted by the PSD, in the part in which Article 14 (3) ( c ) is amended. Article 51 ( a ). Article 52 ( 1 ). Article 87 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the, all of the IRC Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on proposal 218 - C submitted by the CDS-PP, in the part in which Article 87 (1) is amended. the IRC Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 181 - C submitted by the PSD, in the part in which Article 91 ( a ) is amended. o -A of the IRC Code and add paragraph 2 to Article 151. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] It is now necessary to vote on proposal 216 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, to add a new Article 153. o -A — Revokes the new asset revaluation regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue with the discussion, in particular, of the proposal for a State Budget Act of Article 167. Article 217. o. We begin with Chapter XII — Local taxes, Section I — Municipal property tax, Article 167. o — Amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax. Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, an Budget proposes choices, and these are choices we will have to make. And they are to choose to continue with the way of cutting pensions, not to end the overtax for most Portuguese already in January 2017, not to reduce the IRS on labour incomes, as would certainly do a PSD/CDS-PP government, or to summon those who have the most resources — the owners of large real estates — for an effort to promote social cohesion and sustainability of social security. The Socialist Party's choice is clear. So we propose an additional to the IMI to focus on the great real estate. The provision of this additional revenue to the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security is a clear sign that this will be a priority of this Government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this additional of the IMI replaces the unfair tax on the label of the Government of Vítor Gaspar / Passos Coelho, which at the time was presented as the social-democrat measure. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal submitted by the Socialist Party took into account the concerns of the different sectors of the economy, was modelled so as not to make this additional on urban buildings classified as urban industrial or services, thus ensuring the absence of any impact on economic activity. And I stress that even in urban housing, there was care to minimize the effects of this proposal. I also want to make it clear that the overwhelming majority of Portuguese will not be covered by this additional IMI. Its incidence, in the case of a couple, will take place only on assets exceeding EUR 1, EUR 2 million or, in the case of individual taxpayers, EUR 600 000 and still in the first case, ensuring the progressive nature of this tax. On the one hand, economic activity and families are preserved and taxation on large real estate held by entities resident in tax havens is aggravated. The fight against fraud and tax evasion also goes this way. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD and the CDS have torn the clothes in the alleged defense of the middle class regarding this additional IMI. Or they don't know what the middle class is or, in order to protect the interests of the great real estate owners, they went wrong with the Portuguese. Defending the middle class was because they did not allow the scandal that were the penhoras of the homes of the household and the sales of the houses of many Portuguese families. But they did not, when they were government, because this was indeed not a priority of the PSD and CDS. Only the change of government allowed to end this practice. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake is whether we want a more fair and fair society. And this is the pain of the PSD and CDS benches, which behave as defenses of the middle class in the speech, but when they are in the government, they are their main carriages. And that is what hurts them, because they realize that the Portuguese understand this and are no longer willing to deal with this attitude. This is the difference in a social state. This tax precisely preserves the social state and presupposes the distribution of wealth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u52	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 168. o — Addition to the Code of Municipal Property Tax. For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed it here several times. The right was extremely distressed by this tax, with this measure, and began to shoot in all directions. It was the middle class, but after all, it was no longer the middle class; it was the investors, but after all, it was no longer the investors; then the measure was soft, but after all, it was no longer soft. And Portuguese society, in the midst of so much alarmism, began to realize that it does not have to get up every time the right touches the sirens, because most of the time it is not worth getting up, it does not happen, it is empty alarmism of meaning, only to create confusion in society and so that people do not understand what is in fact involved. As we now appreciate it is here and it is very clear. It does not touch the middle class, it is far from being an investment attack and it is not soft with the offshore; quite the contrary, it has the advantage of going directly to the criticism that the right would make and tax more those who already paid the seal tax, doing more than that, because it will tax many who, before, did not pay the seal tax, despite having millionaire fortunes in real estate. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a step that is very important in progressiveity, a very important step in fiscal justice, which is what we want to achieve in the future, with future reforms of the IRS. This is certainly a measure which will need to be reviewed and evaluated in its rates and exemptions, but which will begin and is already a fair measure, because it calls for a relatively greater contribution to those who have relatively more. What we want to ask, after all the criticisms answered, after all the problems solved, is: what is, after all, the excuse of PSD and CDS for not approving this fair measure of redistribution of wealth in the IMI? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u54	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Mariana Mortágua said that it was necessary to lose the shame of going to get money to whom she is amassing money. Management obeyed and, for history, the "Mariana Mortagua tax" was born and, with it, another brutal increase of taxes. on the back of the autarchs they called you an additional IMI, but no, it's not an additional, it's even a new tax. In order to give him a so-called fiscal justice, they have allocated their revenue to the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund, the same one that, irresponsiblely, they will decapitalize to risk urban rehabilitation pension money. But the left is unsatisfied with the tax draw. Therefore, PS and PCP are proposing amendments so that this tax can still be aggravated by 666 %. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The additional IMI never intended to introduce fiscal justice but only to take out a few million euros and penalize, punish, punish all those who one day, by the way, had the unfortunate idea of saving to invest. All this to finance the party customers and ensure the survival of the management itself. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u56	Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it might be appropriate to compare this tax with one that was revoked on Friday, the 28th of the Seal Tax Code. And here we are no longer just comparing ideological proposals, because, at least in the speech, the PSD was in favour of the taxation of real estate assets of more than EUR 1 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u58	It was, it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u59	It was, but I don't know if, in the meantime, it's over. But in addition to ideological questions, it is also appropriate to compare how bad things are and how well things are done. [[PSD protests.]] It is that the previous tax took into account the value of the building, which meant that if 10 people owned a building, they would all pay as if they were millionaires, since the value of the building was not taken into account, but that of the building. And these cases existed. If these 10 people had a real estate of EUR 1 million for rent, because it was simply a building that had not been divided into horizontal property, they would pay as millionaires. More: if they had a building of €999 000 they did not pay, but when the value was 1 million, suddenly the rate was 1 % above all value, rather than a marginal rate. Mrs. Members, there have already been a number of prosecutors who have designated money 28 of the Seal Tax Code as the "new stupidest tax in the world" and it is not difficult to find reasons for it. On the other hand, what do you do with this tax? The total of a heritage, regardless of that being made up of plots of a million euros or half a million euros. And so, only in this way, do we have a real vision of what people's contribution capacity is. But further, Mrs Deputies: if such investment which is made in real estate—and would be wildly taxed in Section 28 of the Seal Tax Code—was made for rent, such was not distinguished from the payment of the seal tax. If I had a building with six apartments to rent or a palace, it was all a sign of enormous fortune. Now, on the contrary, when it comes to renting, when it comes therefore to real estate accumulation for investment, the tax that is paid is deducted from the collection of income taxes. Therefore, this tax is superior to its alternative in all aspects. It is a tax that, unlike the previous one, protects the investment that is made for lease and is a tax that, contrary to the previous one, is actually directed at those who have great heritage rather than those who hold buildings of great heritage value, which may or may not correspond to owners of great heritage. Now, if the PSD maintains the idea that it had a few years ago, that to tax over one million euros was a good social-democrat principle, it has a good opportunity here to reaffirm its accession to social-democracy, voting in favour of this proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u60	The CFP also has the floor with regard to this article, through Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The CFP has fought for the creation of a new tax on high-value real estate as the most appropriate tax measure for large fortunes. Yes, sir. Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP, it is a new tax on great fortunes, it is not a labour income tax, which you have brutally aggravated in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u62	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u63	during the debate of the State budget we warned of the need to introduce improvements in this tax in order to overcome several problems detected in the meantime. The proposals presented by the CFP have exactly that objective. We propose that the IMI additional exclusively affect housing properties, avoiding the negative impact on economic activities resulting from the taxation of real estate assets affected by such activities. We have improved the progressive nature of the tax through the introduction of five steps, with exemption for values of less than €600 000. in the highest steps, above a million euros, we apply higher rates, to avoid the sharp reduction of the seal tax that was already paid by real estate and that will now be extinct. We exempt from tax buildings and land intended for social housing or controlled costs, housing and construction cooperatives. For real estate for housing held by credit institutions and insurance companies we propose to apply a rate of 0, 4 % more than originally provided for. Finally, for buildings owned by offshore entities, we propose a substantially higher tax rate of 7, 5 %. These PCP proposals substantially improve the initial proposal, contributing to making the IMI additional a fairer tax. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u64	We proceeded to the discussion of proposal 227 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, of the addition of Article 168. o -A — Amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ). Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: IMI articles are a very significant expression of what this Budget is and how management managed it, this paradigmatic article being. When we are about to vote on the CDS-PP proposal that the IMI should apply to entities that have no reason for it not to be applied to them, and we see that, in particular the management political parties, take another type of IMI worsening measures, aggravating the IMI for many Portuguese, and want to stay out of this effort,... [[PCP protests.]] ... we realize that this is the price that PS and BE pay for the solidarity of the PCP in the approval of the Budget. That is, in Portugal, the great owners pay, provided they are not political parties. And in Portugal, what is the political party that is the great owner? It's the PCP, that stays out of this effort! [[PCP protests.]] So pay the Portuguese, that the PCP isn't here to pay, it's just here to make the others pay! As for the rest... [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u66	We pay our taxes, you guys don't know...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u67	As for the rest, there was a famous tale by the current President of the Republic, which explained very well one subject and which can be applied at this time and to the issue of the IMI. About the IMI, you could say: do taxes increase? Management says no. But is IMI additional a new tax? It is! And how does IMI's additional tax revenue grow? Grow up! Does social security have a problem? Management says no, that it is perfectly sustainable. But have you invented a new tax to fund social security? They invented it! That money goes all right where there's no such problem? Go! Go! The rich are the ones who pay for this new effort? They're, say the management. But, then, does what you pay the most in the IMI compensate or not what you receive the most in the pensions? Compensate and spare! Millionary pensions rise much more than the real estate owners will pay with this new IMI supplement. So this extra is or isn't propaganda? It is! It's just that the millionaire pensions are going up more — it's going to happen! — a pensioner with the lowest pensions per month. So don't come with the history of fiscal justice. But there is a cluster in these IMI options. [[BE's protests.]] Does IMI additional affect municipal tax? Incidence. So the recipe goes to the authorities? No, the recipe is for the state! Mrs. Members of the management, the IMI is the demonstration of the ambush that is your Budget, which does not make fiscal justice, is not fair with the authorities, is not fair with the people... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ... and the only « banla» that gives is to the PCP, which continues to be a great owner and still does not pay. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u68	Mr João Oliveira has the floor to speak in the context of the discussion of proposal 227 - C on Article 168. o -A, presented by CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u69	To defend the honor of the great owners! It is the communist association of the great owners!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Mr João Almeida has already used us to some lack of rigour and lack of seriousness in his speeches. [[CDS-PP protests.]] But the lies that Mr. João Almeida says cannot be admitted. When Mr. João Almeida says that the CFP will not pay the new tax, he is wrong! And we give a serious lesson to the CDS-PP : we defend a tax that will force the PCP to pay more taxes than those that have already paid, complying with the law. [[PCP applause.]] I'd like to know if the CDS-PP is as quiet as the PCP with respect to the enforcement of the law, in particular with regard to party funding by fictitious people, with invented names... [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] So, Mr. João Almeida, just this note and excused having to hear it: the PCP defends what is right, even when it may be even what is less appropriate for you. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u71	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for the second time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Oliveira, I obviously did not sign up to defend honor, because it only offends who can, does not offend who you want, and the honourable Member is far from having the requirements to be able to offend. [[PCP protests.]] So what I wanted to tell you, Mr President, is that the CFP does not pay, no. Don't pay! The PCP votes against IMI payment!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u73	We paid $29,000!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u74	So don't say the opposite. It votes in favour of the exemption of IMI for the political parties and the IMI which it has so far paid is not from its headquarters. The IMI that pays is a real estate speculation business that the PCP has. [[PCP protests.]] And it is good that the Portuguese, once and for all, know that the PCP, in its heritage, in addition to headquarters, has other real estates, with which it makes real estate speculation and that is why it pays IMI.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u75	We pay, you guys don't even...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u76	Mr President, I am going to tell you something else: do you know why you can tell me what you said about the CDS-PP accounts? It's just that at CDS-PP the payer has receipts. That's why it's fiscal. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u77	The payer has receipts and the payer also has!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u78	No receipts, no taxes! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] You continue to have the only offshore that exists within the continental territory, which is the Front Party, where those who pay do not have a receipt. You don't even have a name to know what you did! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u79	When you do a little silence, we will move on to the discussion of Article 170. o — Amendment to the Single Circulation Tax Code. Mrs Rubina Berardo of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members and Members : Also in Article 170. o — Amendment to the Single Circulation Tax Code indicates an increase in taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u81	So where is he? Sign it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u82	We turn to Article 173. the, for which Mrs Hortense Martins, of the PS Parliamentary Group, applied to intervene. In the meantime, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs asked for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u83	Mr President, if it is still possible, I would like to ask for an intervention by the State Secretary for Tax Affairs on the article immediately before the 172. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u84	This is possible, since we have not yet begun to discuss Article 173. o. Thus you have the floor in the context of the discussion of Article 172. o — Amendment to the Statute for Tax Benefits, the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to tax benefits in municipal taxes, the Government has proposed a profound change in philosophy. According to this philosophy, in a decentralized process, the benefits are granted by the municipalities. With this amendment, it was also intended to solve a set of problems, in particular one, which has been dragged for several years, concerning the claim in some municipalities, or opposition in others, to the fact that buildings located in historical centres classified by UNESCO are subject to taxation in IMI. Our solution is simply that the municipalities, and not Parliament, should decide, on a case-by-case basis, whether this exemption is justified, i.e. whether to pay less tax on those who have real estate in historic centres or, if they want, whether to pay more tax on those who do not have real estate in historical centres, because that is always a counterpart to the exemption. in Article 172. there are two proposals under discussion for which I wanted to draw attention. In addition to being against them substantially, in the configuration that they have, for me, are very serious consequences, insofar as an exemption is made in the law on buildings in historic centres and an interpretative effect has been given since 2001, which means. Members, that all taxpayers who had paid the tax since 2001 could now call into question those settlements. And this would be done automatically with regard to the liquidations of the last four years. This means that some of the municipalities that do not understand that such exemption would be justified would be deprived of municipal tax revenue and, in some cases, would be deprived of such revenue for several years. And, in addition, in municipalities such as Angra do Heroísmo or Elvas, which have pronounced themselves against this exemption, the IMI of this historical center is truly the IMI of almost all the urban tissue and therefore constitutes most of the IMI of these municipalities. I would therefore like to draw the House's attention to the consequences of the adoption of these proposals for amendments to the IMI Code, as these consequences are noted, not for the government's finances but for the finances of these municipalities, which, by means of a compensation mechanism, would be deprived, against their will, of all their tax revenues. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u86	We now turn to the discussion of article 173. o — Addition to the Statute for Tax Benefits. To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are on the last day of debate in the speciality of the Budget, the aim of which is to improve the proposed law which the Government has given us. This is a Budget which aims to be a friend of companies and which strengthens territorial cohesion by reducing the IRC rate to 12, 5 % for businesses operating in the interior territories. I remember that, already in the past, the PS has defended a lower IRC rate for SMEs, taking into account our business fabric, and therefore a rate of 17, 5 % was introduced, up to 15 000 €, throughout the national territory. However, this budget introduces positive discrimination by passing this rate to 12, 5 % for companies operating in these interior territories, which need effective support to provide greater development. For us, territorial cohesion and social cohesion are essential values of public policies, because we know the country and the real difficulties of people and certain territories, and we know that, of course, this measure would also have to cover micro-enterprises, so we present this amendment proposal. We do different because we have another way. The former Government ended with the status of tax benefits for the interior, created by the Socialist Party, and in this PSD and CDS budget do not present any proposals in this sense. Where are the PSD and CDS proposals to reduce the IRC rate to the inside? Oh, my God! Where are the proposals that introduce positive discrimination in these territories? Oh, my God! Where are the development support for such low-density territories that you are. Have you guys talked so much about the specialty? Zero proposals, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] In fact, I remember that the only proposal I have found is a proposal called IRC Restart. I still thought that with « IRC Restart » we would even be restarting, from the PSD point of view, intervention policies in low-density territories, i.e. in the interior territories. No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Pure deception! This proposal for IRC to begin with concerns a proposal to find a special status in the surrounding areas of large metropolitan centres that present situations of relative poverty. Well, what are we on? Is your look still more of the same? Oh, my God! We believe that the low-density territories, which are 2 / 3 of our territory, deserve positive discrimination. The PS continues this policy, which has already begun in the past, of intervention for the development of our country and it has all, with the least, with the companies that also have the most difficulties and with 2 / 3 of our national territory. The country, to be developed, needs everyone, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u89	I would also like to point out that this budget includes the railway investments provided for in the 2020 railway plan, in particular for the modernisation of the Beira-Baixa line and the West line, and it is a budget that decentralises and transfers competence to authorities in important areas such as education, health and social action. I recall that the investments that allow to move forward with the requalification of schools and health centres in our country were stopped by the previous government. We need to remember they've been stopped but now they're going to start again. This is to start over! Now they're gonna start over. [[PSD protests.]] This is a Budget that strengthens the network of shops and citizen spaces in the national territory. I cannot fail to mention a measure already approved at this headquarters with the votes of the Socialist Party at the level of the PEC, which will benefit many small entrepreneurs at the same time that finally starts the path of a new formula of calculation based on the technical and scientific coefficients of the various economic activities. These are measures aimed at our small entrepreneurs and aimed at encouraging investment, strengthening the capital structure and recapitalisation of enterprises — so necessary! — which we have proposed in this budget for tax benefits. Of course, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we agree with what he referred to here in relation to historical centres. In fact, we cannot accept proposals that apply this retroactivity, exhausting resources from the authorities. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying that this is a budget that assumes the need to continue the path started a year ago, with a strategy of trust and proximity to people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u90	We turn to Article 174. o -A — Tax benefits for the conservation and reduction of energy consumption. To speak on behalf of the Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens present in this State budget a number of proposals for encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises, including micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. I call it small economy, but it represents an enormous contribution to the country's economic dynamics, and this support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises can also be associated with environmental objectives, which are of extraordinary relevance to the country. The Greens therefore proposed to the Government that a lower rate should be established at the level of the State budget for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the interior in order to be able to stimulate this activity in a territory which has been completely voted on for abandonment. In fact, there is a need to stimulate economic activity within the country and, as we know, regional asymmetries have the particularity of having very serious environmental, social and economic consequences. The Greens also present, and that is the article which is now at issue, a proposal for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to benefit from their energy efficiency. Therefore, companies that bet on this energy efficiency must, in the Greens' view, be subject to tax benefits. It is environmental taxation in a logic of encouraging good practices so that we can achieve goals that are desirable for the country. In addition to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the Greens also tabled an amendment to the proposal for a State budget law, which proposes that the time limit for reporting invoices to the Tax Authority be 8. However, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises addressed the Parliamentary Group of the Greens, and I assume that others too, saying that this period is clearly insufficient and will cause serious damage to them, insofar as from 8th day they pay fines. What The Greens propose is that this deadline should go to day 20. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members who have made an amendment to our own proposal, because we first thought that this deadline could still be gradual, but micro, small and medium-sized enterprises felt that they did not and brought this issue to our Parliamentary Group. So what we propose is to establish as a deadline the 20th day. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u92	We moved on to Article 180. o — Amendment to the general system of tax infringements. To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent years, Portugal has successfully stopped the fight against fraud and tax evasion. It is recalled that in 2013 Portugal was in 7. the place in the countries of the European Union which had the lowest rate of tax evasion and it is also recalled that in 2014 Portugal was of the countries that had the lowest tax evasion and evasion. We thought this was also a design of the current government, but in fact it had a hard turn-around in the 2017 Budget proposal, as a proposal was introduced that aims to decriminalize tax fraud. Well, of two, one: either it was a lapse on the part of the government and it was not its intention to do so - it is therefore a case of manifest incompetence - or it is then more serious and this shameful attempt to decriminalise tax fraud was effectively deliberate. Well the government may try to change its hand, but the truth is it was the PSD and the CDS-PP that presented a proposal for an amendment aimed at curbing this which would be a real national shame. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u94	Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To say that the text presented describes tax fraud, Mrs Deputy, is intellectually unworthy of any Member and a little more unworthy of a Member with professional responsibilities in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u96	Mrs. Deputy has to go back to the fiscal law chair!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u97	Honestly, I must say that I see with some concern that some people think that posterity does not record what they say and that one day their professional competence will not be affected by such nonsense. [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u98	You have to be educated!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u99	Madam Member, what was at stake in this proposal was very simple. in the context of the automatic IRS, as is evident, it is not possible to assess as tax fraud the mere non-confirmation of the elements that are submitted by the Tax Authority. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] In other words, explaining to everyone: if the Tax Authority makes the settlement, it puts the data, and I simply do not confirm, in this context, it is not possible, nor desirable, to qualify as tax fraud the fact that it has accepted the data delivered by that Authority. That is also what the Government's proposal does. The Public Prosecutor's Office in statements on this matter, when the question was raised, clarified that it was ridiculous and that, of course, no investigation was decriminalized or prevented. The Socialist Party's proposal sheds light on this issue, but does so with the common sense that is lacking in the PSD proposal. Mrs. Member, in the IRS automatic, clearly, I cannot apply a fine of tax fraud when someone simply looks at your statement, sees that they paid €6000, does not notice that you received €6500 and trust that statement. in the PSD proposal this would continue to be punished as a crime. It is this kind of behaviour, Mrs Deputies, that the PSD proposal aims to criminalize and that, in the context of the automatic IRS, I will apologize, you cannot and should not criminalize. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u100	To speak by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, this bench thought that after what happened here last Friday with a member of the government, the government had learned to behave and to address the Members of the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Shame, Mr Secretary of State, is when they lose their reason or when they do not have it and resolve to insult the members of Parliament, elected by the Portuguese people. [[PS protests.]] It is a shame and only those who have a very heavy conscience because of their behavior can do so. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u102	For an intervention, Mr President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Affairs States has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the accusation that has been made to the Government is insulting. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u104	It's not when they want it! What the Secretary of State did was explain the insulting nature of the accusation which was made to the intention of the legislative amendment —... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u105	...it's not "Oh", it's like that! — explaining exactly what the amendment was made. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u106	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is no reason why there should be an incident about these interventions and, therefore, we will continue. We turn to Article 187. o — In addition to tax rates on oil and energy products. Mr Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as regards the ISP (oil products tax), this is another tax increase but with at least an artimanha curious. They say they slightly increase the price of gasoline, slightly lower the price of gasoline and still have the distinct can to say that this is neutral, from a fiscal point of view. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u108	Lata? Oh, my God! That's offensive!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u109	No, that's not offensive, it's sublime language! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u110	This is obviously a lie, because public data show that 80 % of fuel consumption is made of gas oil. So, the morals of history: this is another tax increase... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u111	I'm asking the ladies. Members who have listened to the speech of the honourable Member. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u112	...and it's another heavy bill that families and companies will have to pay by the end of the month. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u113	Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Fernando Rocha Andrade, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u114	Well, nowhere does the State Budget report say there is fiscal neutrality in this area. on the contrary, the State budget report states that there is an increase in revenue in this area and, in this respect, the budget report is immensely transparent, as has already been explained in this House at least twice. [[PSD protests.]] What is neutral in this matter? What is neutral is that this measure is taken together with a change in the regulatory environment, in particular, this measure is taken together with an amendment on the level of incorporation of biofuels, as has been widely reported, i.e. the increase in the incorporation of biofuels at a higher rate than in Spain, would only lead to an increase in the price of fuels. What the State Budget report says is as simple as this: if we stop the increase in the incorporation of biofuels and increase the ISP by 2 cents, in the consequences for the final price, which is what interests consumers, the whole of the two measures is neutral, i.e. it is possible to increase the tax by changing the regulatory mechanism so that there is no effect on the price. The fiscal neutrality, Mrs Deputy, will excuse me, is not claimed at any time from the State budget report. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u115	There have been several protests by the Secretary of State that have not first been addressed to the Bureau as usual. The Bureau reports on these small details, given, at last, the frenzy of the discussion, but thanks that, next time, it does not begin its intervention by a 'good', although it accepts that it is a positive parallelism. We are now discussing a new Article 187. o -A— Elimination of the increase in the tax on petroleum products. Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, this tax on oil products is itself a tax bag and has only one objective: to pay the electoralism that permeates this State budget. If that is not the case, if the intention is, as I have heard this morning, to protect the country's interior, to protect micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, to protect mobility, to protect economic growth, to be able to incorporate other measures in terms of environmental sustainability, then what you have to do is to vote in favour of the CDS proposal, to eliminate this increase in tax. That is exactly what will protect the economy, will protect families, companies, institutions, the interior of the country and will allow up to change that measure of professional gas oil, which is a clear ambush, in some border areas, without any criteria, in fuel stations where there is no conditions for heavy transport to supply. In fact, we are faced with only one tax bag, which has no gain for the national economy and has only one purpose: to pay for the electoralism that is in the State budget. We do not agree with this and therefore we are expected to vote in favour of the CDS proposal, which proposes the elimination of this increase in taxes. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u117	Is it 2015? Is this all about you? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u118	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing the proposal 157 - C, of the BE, to add an article 189. o -A — Contribution on EESC-free energy producers ( Extraordinary contribution on the Energy Sector. To speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We live in Portugal, the extraordinary situation of having a renewable energy production in a special regime, which has a remuneration above Spanish market standards, and which, taking into account the data of Renewable EDP, makes the overcost for electricity consumers in each year be at home of EUR 500 million for excessive profit compared with the Spanish market. This is amazing and deserves a reflection. This is the same sector that continues to be exempt from any contribution to face and reduce the tariff deficit in Portugal. This is what the Left Block proposal implies: opening a debate and doing a work to design a measure that is designed according to the characteristics of renewable energy producers and that can fill this gap, which is so serious, which would allow us to have strengthened means to reduce the energy costs of families and to deepen the results that have already begun this year, with regard to the reduction of the electricity tariff. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u120	The Government has the floor, through the Secretary of State for Energy, Jorge Seguro Sanches.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : I would like to welcome Mr Jorge Costa's speech and share with the House a reflection on the EESC's question, which is a contribution made by the previous Government in the previous legislation. I think we all know what has been done, what has been wrong and that this government is correcting, but I would like to say that I do not understand that it is not about the renewables that we should make these corrections. We are applying very strict criteria with regard to electricity billing and what is paid by consumers. this year has been achieved in a projection for the coming year, the lowest price of the last 10 years, below inflation for the first time. But we do not understand that we should do it about renewable energy, because we are talking about national production. Despite the profitability, as Mr Deputies say, and we recognise that it is often excessive in relation to what investments were actually made, we believe that we should create a regulatory stability framework in the system that allows more investment in the sector to take place. I would like to share with the House what I think is a very positive outcome in the solar sector. This government has already authorized 380 MW of solar energy without subsidies, because the country has a great potential in the solar, especially in the south, which must be placed in a sustained way at the service of our national electricity system. This was possible because investors felt that, in Portugal, we did not alter the investment rules in the electricity sector, unlike Spain, which has many conditions similar to Portugal. And I want to tell you that these investments which are happening in Portugal — particularly in Alcoutim, where there is the most recent and most important central Europe, with 200 MW — have much to do with this work that is being done and the government's confidence that it has been giving to energy investors, especially renewable energy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u122	We are now considering the new Article 190. the -A - Process of general evaluation of the rustic buildings presented by the CFP. Mr Mauricio Marques, from the PSD, has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We are in the presence of a proposal without any sense. I would say more, it is a counterproductive proposal for what you want. We have identified as one of the problems of forest and agricultural planning the lack of size of the property, i.e. we have a problem identified, the minifundia. Now, we are trying to discriminate against buildings over 50 hectares and this is a disincentive to parceling, a disincentive to forest planning and is counterproductive to everything that needs to be done in the Portuguese forest. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u124	We are now entering Chapter XVI — Other legislative amendments of a fiscal nature. To intervene on proposal 298 - C of the CDS-PP, to add an article 191. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 67 / 2016 of 3 November, which proves the special programme of reducing State indebtedness, has the floor Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this amendment, the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group wants above all to meet three very concrete objectives to protect small and medium-sized enterprises and to protect families in this extraordinary State debt reduction regime. The first amendment is to extend the deadline of this scheme, since it is the Ministry of Finance itself that has recognized that there are several failures on the platform and that several taxpayers who try to adhere to this scheme cannot do so. For this reason, it makes sense to extend the deadline of this scheme until the end of January 2017, in order to enable companies and families to raise the capital needed to join this scheme. A second amendment, which is also very relevant, is the one that serves to protect families and taxpayers in the most fragile individual name, which often have debts to the State of a performance nature, i.e. social benefits that they received improperly, and that in previous schemes they were able to adhere to the same scheme in order to be able to pay in benefits over the following years. Now, in this case, clearly, the Government has taken an option against these beneficiaries, not allowing them to accede to this regime. A third amendment is to remove the minimum limits which are being imposed on businesses and families, since this minimum limit, often, can harm taxpayers who already have a lot of difficulty — individual workers, green receipt workers — and who are out of this scheme by imposing minimum limits of €200 or more than €100. We therefore propose these amendments, bearing in mind that from the outset the Government told the Portuguese that this was not a measure to meet the 2016 deficit. If I had said otherwise, until we could understand it, but it was the Government itself that clearly said that this has nothing to do with the 2016 deficit and therefore there is no reason for the government not to accept these amendments, because they protect the Portuguese, especially the weakest, in their relationship with the tax administration and the administration of social security. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u126	Let us move on to the discussion of Article 192. o — Addendum to Law No 82 - D / 2014 of 31 December, as amended by Law No 7 -A / 2016 of 30 March, contained in the bill, which has to do with the amendment of environmental tax standards in several sectors. Mrs Rubina Berardo has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are before another article containing an increase in taxes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u128	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Rubina Berardo for the precision with which she always announces, at all times possible, the identification of an increase in taxes. But this pedagogical task is manifestly incomplete, and it is incomplete because the honourable Member does not have the care and attention to register to report whenever there is a reduction of taxes in the State budget for 2017. It could have been registered to take note of the reduction in tax for companies located in the country; it could have been registered to note the reduction in the excess of IRS; it could have been registered to note the reduction in the extraordinary contribution of solidarity; it could have been registered to report on the tax benefits at the home of IRS for investment in startups; it could have been registered to note the elimination of customs VAT; it could have been registered, on the basis, to note that overall, we have a reduction in the tax burden for the second consecutive year and we have a reduction in direct taxation on work from 6, 8 % to 6, 7 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This, indeed, would be the alert and signaler that would be useful for people to understand what is involved for the second consecutive year: overall, we have a reduction in the tax burden. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u130	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u131	Mr. President and Mr. Members, a simple correction to this last intervention: UTAO and the Council of Public Finance say that the tax burden is not low, the tax burden remains with the new taxes that the government creates. Secondly, what happened, in relation to the overtax, was the creation of the overtax. The law passed in Parliament extinguishes the overtax on 31 December and what you are doing is creating a new overtax of IRS for next year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u132	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To restore here the truth about the statements now made by Mr Duarte Pacheco, I mean that the report of the Public Finance Council says that the tax burden has decreased from 2015 to 2017, i.e. from your Government to 2017, through this State budget. And this report was made before the submission of proposals in the field of specialty, because with the delivery of proposals in the field of specialty, decidedly, the tax burden also goes down from 2016 to 2017. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u134	Mrs. Members, let us then turn to Article 197. o — Amendment to Decree-Law No 198 / 2012 of 24 August, contained in the bill, related to measures to control invoices and other documents. Mr. Carlos Santos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Making the system efficient, efficient in management, speeding up procedures, modernising, deburocratizing must be the functions of a government when preparing and implementing a State budget. Unfortunately, this government is not in the right direction. What we have seen, increasingly, is the breakdown of private investment because of the lack of confidence of companies and citizens in the policies practised by this government. It launches unfair taxes in an arbitrary and destructive manner on corporate capital and on productive investment in Portugal. And it all started with the reversal of IRC's proposal to stimulate corporate capitalisation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a social market economy, the capitalisation of companies is made by withholding profits not distributed or by increasing the capital of partners, current and future. This government believes that the capitalisation of companies is made through the recapitalisation of banks, it believes that the banks will recapitalise the companies. Mr João Paulo Correia and Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, although they have noted some tax cuts, they have forgotten to note that this Budget and this Government are unfortunately telling investors not to invest in Portugal and the citizens not to save. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u136	Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the issues of capitalisation and demonstrating the importance that the Government attaches to this objective, Mr Carlos Santos Silva will look at the changes that are made to the system of conventional remuneration of social capital, which, as the law states, is not effective, for the simple reason that the conventional remuneration whose deduction is admitted is lower than the remuneration of the debt whose deduction is admitted. Even when the legislator said that he was encouraging capitalisation, it was not really; now, yes, it is now. And it is important to point out here that this is one of those measures which, as Mr Delgado Alves has pointed out and Mrs Rubina Berardo could have pointed out, means a reduction in taxes. It is a reduction in taxes for companies and productive activities and, already, it is a reduction in taxes for capitalised companies, as is done in the investment support tax scheme, where there is a reduction in taxes for investment firms. And all the difference is when tax reductions are chosen, between tax reductions to capitalised companies and investment firms, rather than indiscriminate reductions, whether companies invest or not. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u138	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 200. o — Amendment to Law No 98 / 97 of 26 August. This is the Law of Organization and Procedure of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this budget we are again faced with a proposal which will, if approved, leave the Court of Auditors bound in situations of proven existence of an illegal financial act in an authority, a rule of which the Court itself disagrees, as well as the Attorney-General of the Republic. The aim of the proposal would be to equate the responsibilities of autarchs and rulers. Now, a Government of the Republic is a sovereign body that depends and is controlled by the Assembly of the Republic, which has legal and operational mechanisms for this purpose. By the way, municipal chambers have no parallel to the government, because they have much less robust mechanisms of effective supervision. If the objective is to equate, then it is leveled above, increasing the accountability criteria of government members, rather than diminishing those of the autarchs. An amendment in this area requires weighting, with an autonomous legislative process and not a foolish one, in our view, « lei-cavalier ». To make unattainable presidents of chambers and councillors, provided supported by favourable technical opinions, while technicians themselves who issue these opinions may be, civilly and criminally, responsible, is, dangerously and perversely, creating distrust and opacity in the functioning of democracy, favoring all kinds of populism. Our path is another: whoever has power has to take responsibility for his exercise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u140	Mr. Miguel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u141	Mr President, we have just been informed orally by the Bureau that the PS has withdrawn a proposal for an amendment to Article 199. o -A, and hence the confusion of my registration right now. We have not yet received the formal withdrawal of this amendment. And why? Because this proposal that the PS had submitted concerns a novel of a mysterious tax of 5 % on complementary diagnostic and therapeutic means and on medical devices whose fatherhood no one wants to assume. Moreover, the disappearance of this proposal itself is also involved in ignorance. This is a tax that ceases to be, has existed again, has disappeared, and now we don't know if it will even exist again. And why is that? I explain, Mr President: in the State budget report, the Government described an extraordinary contribution of companies marketing medical devices, like what happens to the drug sector, and the PS presented a proposal for an addendum in which it actually creates this tax of 5 %. However, on Friday, at a meeting of the Health Committee, the PS also orally assumed that it would withdraw the creation of this tax and, strangely, announced that it would present a legislative amendment to the proposed by the Government. I think it will normally have to be the government to make this proposal. So, we're here at the contingency to figure out exactly if there's going to be a 5 % tax or not. In any case, Mr President, whether or not there is a need, your need describes exactly the very dangerous and very weak situation in which the sustainability of the National Health Service lies. Data from the Directorate-General for Budget last week show that there is this concern and, more than that, they reflect the slightness, irresponsibility and lack of security in decisions which the Government and the parties supporting it, in particular the PS, take when presenting new taxes. It is the same lightness with which they are removed and the lightness with which we are now confronted to check whether or not they exist. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u142	Mr. Miguel Santos, as there was no one registered to use the word on the proposal submitted by the PS to add an article 199. o -A— Extraordinary participation of suppliers of goods and services of the National Health Service, the Bureau did not do what it would do if there were any inscription, which was to explain that this proposal had been withdrawn by the Parliamentary Group of the PS. Still on Article 200. Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand that the position contained in the proposal for a law on autarchs — the equivalence of the authorships with the members of the Government, with regard to sanctioning liability, within the supervision of the Court of Auditors — is justified. And when this principle is challenged, of two, one : or if you are understanding that the members of the government are financially irresponsible, which is not true, because there are mechanisms to monitor the responsibility of the members of the government, or then a generalised suspicion is being heard about the autarchs, which, from our point of view, is not fair either. We therefore believe that this proposal does not protect the supervisory regime, either on the holders of sovereign bodies or on the holders of local bodies. from our point of view, the bill makes all the sense. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u144	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the conclusion of a proposal tabled by the Block on the Left, to add Article 200. o -A— Revoking rule under the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns. Mr Pedro Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Law on the Financing of the Political Parties and the Electoral Campaigns in force provides for various tax benefits to political parties. The benefits to political parties within IMT and IMI are unjustified, are benefits on effective heritage, do not presuppose social gains and cause injustice. They are unjustified, incomprehensible tax benefits and even propitiating the rules of proportionality in the financing of the parties themselves. And that is what becomes very little democratic. The end of these tax benefits to the parties does not undermine the recognition of its importance in Portuguese democracy; rather, this recognition is conferred on the parties by the Constitution and it is good not to question this assumption of our democracy. But it is also necessary and essential to recognise the citizens, the foundation of our democracy. For this reason, it is essential that the Portuguese recognise that the parties are advocates of fiscal justice, from the very outset in their own behaviours, and without misconceptions. Ending with the exemptions of IMT and IMI on the heritage of the parties is assuming that an unjustified privilege is corrected. This is good for democracy and, therefore, it is good for political parties. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u146	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 201. o — Amendment to Law No 30 / 2003 of 22 August 2003. It is the law that approves the model of financing the public broadcasting and television service. Mr Pedro Pismão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The budget of the Ministry of Culture is a disappointment and remains largely constituted by the funds for RTP. But so far, in this budget, there is confusion. And there is confusion because the contribution to audiovisual, CAV, which has been paid since 2003 and delivered directly to RTP, is now being handed over to the Ministry of Finance, which creates two risks: that of the governance of RTP and that of the independence of the public television service itself. The PSD does not agree with this and has submitted a proposal for CAV to be transferred every month to RTP and for no possibility of retention or seizure by the Ministry of Finance. This is because we do not want to run the risk of affecting the governance model that is stabilized in the RTP, because we do not want to question the financing model that is stabilized in the RTP, because we want to respect the work that has been developed, in respect of the credibility of the RTP itself, and because, above all, we place the interest of Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u148	To speak on the same article, Mr Jorge Campos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: It is true that important steps have been taken to ensure that RTP fulfils its mission and proof of this are the measures taken by the Government as well as the legislation produced in the Assembly of the Republic, in order to enable, from 1 December, free access, via terrestrial digital television, to two more public service programme services. There is, however, much to do to ensure the principle of universality: it is necessary to improve the quality of service provided, to monitor technological innovation and to create new services, to promote arts, culture and knowledge, to value workers, to create a company of true public service culture. Therefore, it is clear that RTP cannot be subject to recurrent financial shocks that have affected it in the past. You must receive the contribution to the audiovisual in time and time, being notified in due time to this effect. The Left Block Parliamentary Group therefore proposes an amendment to the way in which the public service is financed, so that the Directorate-General for Budget automatically transfers revenue to RTP on a monthly basis and in its entirety on the contribution to audiovisual. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u150	On this point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it should be clarified that this legislative amendment results from a proposal by the Court of Auditors which seeks to counter traditional mispractice in the Portuguese public accounts, which is that there are taxes and contributions which are collected and which are not recorded in the normal accounting mechanisms. It was therefore essentially to ensure this concern, successively expressed by the Court of Auditors, that, as in this Budget, in the past budget, the contribution to the audiovisual industry was made to follow the path that many other taxes already follow, without anyone calling into question questions of government. For example, municipal taxes are also charged by the State and then transferred to the authorities. The mechanism already resulting from the law, in accordance with the Government's proposal, is that the money would be collected and transferred in the same terms and by the same mechanism as the remaining taxes recorded, therefore automatically and without any retention. We consider it redundant that what was already the result of the law, and that it is, fortunately, a sign of transparency, is explicit in the text, but we have nothing to oppose this being done.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u152	We moved on to Article 202. o — Amendment to Law No 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December ( Creates the indexer of social support and new rules for the updating of pensions and other social benefits of the social security system ). Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, balancing national and international commitments and constraints with the country we do not want nor can we give up is the first motivation and requirement of the PS, in the work we do every day. The increase in family allowance in the first three years of life of children and, with this increase, the replacement of 4. the escalation of family allowance are some of the most significant examples of this motivation, this requirement and this ambition. Supporting young families with children, with the dual objective of reducing the poverty of children and young people and supporting families in their capacity to have more and more children they want to have, is a priority of this Budget, because no country is developing impoverishment, as no country develops when the level of fertility falls more than four and a half years from the previous government than in the previous 20 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members who support young families with children are a priority of the PS, as is a priority of this Budget. It is a priority that proves, once again, that there are no inevitability in politics; there are options, there are choices, and this Budget takes on these options and those choices. Where the former Government has chosen and accepted impoverishment, the PS defines priorities. Supporting young families with children is a priority. It is a priority that is shown to be compatible with good public finances and, above all, it is a priority that proves that it is possible not to give up a decent country, that it is possible not to give up the future of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u154	We moved on to Article 209. o — Amendment to Decree-Law No 29 / 2006 of 15 February 2006 Mrs Fatima Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the previous government cut EUR 4 billion in over-income, faced large companies, withdrawing the benefits given by the Socialist Government; the current government benefits these large companies by allowing them to reassess assets. With the cuts he made, the previous government avoided tariff increases by 12 % to 14 %, limiting them to 1, 5 % and 2 %, and reducing the tariff debt. These legislative amendments, by increasing parliamentary intervention, have a positive look, but what we want is that the government will continue its work of debt reduction, so that people can pay less for energy in the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u156	We turn to Article 211. o — Amendment to the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u157	Mr President, our proposal is strictly aimed at maintaining the regulatory pre-existence arising from the Rules of Procedure, because we believe that, with the proposal to abolish the intervention mediating the judge of law in specific cases, it is true, in case of time, that it could lead to an unreasonable increase in procedural costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u158	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u159	Now, with the expected approval of our proposal, we can ensure that, in this matter, there will be no one in 2017 who can be forced to bear greater costs than those who bear it today. Therefore, the specificity of the situation, the complexity of the case and the procedural conduct of the parties will continue to be considered in order to admit on a reasoned basis the waiver of payment of the remainder of the court rate. Therefore, in summary, access to justice will no longer be costly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u160	With regard to the same article, Mrs Sandra Cunha, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, currently victims of domestic violence are already, on the initiative of the Left Block, exempt from procedural costs in the processes in which they intervene as assistants. This State budget extends this exemption to victims of rape, slavery and trafficking in human beings—and well! — but it is not justified that other victims, especially crimes against freedom and sexual self-determination, such as victims of female genital mutilation or victims of sexual coercion, are not also considered. That is the proposal that the Left Block brings here. It is up to the State to eliminate all financial constraints that may affect the decision of these victims to defend themselves and to resort to the judicial system. This is another step, an important step, in defending and protecting the rights of these victims. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u162	Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u163	Mr President, I am not going to mention any reduction in taxes or any increase in taxes, but in practice I am going to talk about an increase in the rate of procedural costs, which would happen if this proposal by the Government relating to Article 211. or was approved. Those who thought about it and who allowed it to be included in the budget law were literally blind eyes, because it is a measure that is blind, which does not deal well with common sense, the rules and principles of proportionality of access to law and weighting, that judges, in fact, look on a case-by-case basis when examining these issues. There is a rule in force that allows, in a specific case, that there is a simpleity of the case, with agreement of the parties and ending the proceedings at another time, the judge may waive the costs. Now, by the hands of the government, this is no longer happening. But, indeed, whether the PSD, first of all, or then the Socialist Party and the CDS-PP have come to prevent this rule from being altered and we think that we should vote in favour of all these amendments. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u164	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, updating the value of the IAS (indicating social support) has desirable effects, which we want, but also has effects that we do not want, and that is what we are talking about here. One of the effects that we do not want is that it results in an increase in subsidies to parliamentary groups, and in this sense we propose that these subsidies do not increase with the increase in IAS. Another effect has to do with procedural costs. The value of the procedural account unit contained in the Code of Procedural Costs is indexed to the IAS, which means that the increase in IAS would automatically increase the value of the account unit and thus increase the value of the legal costs. We do not want that, on the contrary. The CFP considers that legal costs achieve values that make it impossible for many citizens to actually have access to justice, due to insufficient economic resources. Therefore, from our point of view, there should be a low rather than an increase in the value of the legal costs, and that is what we propose in this State budget. But we believe that the minimum that this House should do is to prevent the increase in the IAS from being able to translate into a concomitant increase in judicial costs, and that is also what we propose in the debate, in the speciality of this budget. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u166	We turn to Article 214. o -A— Transport title passes under23, proposed by The Greens. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, if there is any point where the Greens have given extraordinary importance in this State budget is that of transport, as well as everything related to promoting the quality of life in cities, the right to mobility of populations and also to combating climate change and the necessary decarbonisation of the country and reducing energy consumption. in order to promote collective transport, Les Verdes presented a concrete proposal for the reduction of the price of the pass for university students, the sub23, without a condition of resources, and also submitted proposals so that expenditure on monthly family passes can be deducted from IRS (tax on income of natural persons ). We believe that these are two very important contributions to the promotion of collective transport, of the pendulum movements that people make in their day-to-day lives. There are other issues which also reflect not only on climate change but also on the fight against regional asymmetries, which have to do with the promotion of the relocation of production and consumption. in this sense, we considered it important that this State budget should determine an orientation for the government to promote strategies for stimulating proximity markets and short marketing circuits. Greens also put forward proposals to promote conservation of nature. We know, in particular, that one of the great "Aquiles heel" with which the conservation of nature is faced is the shortage of human resources for the necessary interventions and for the necessary supervision. The Greens propose that we work progressively in this country to ensure that we meet the appropriate ratios to the territory we want to be protected and monitored and to human resources oriented towards that surveillance. For the year 2017, we specifically propose the hiring of more than 50 nature watchers. Mr President, The Greens also submit a proposal for the introduction of vegetable milk into the School Milk Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u168	You've outlived your time, Your Honor. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u169	I'm done now, Mr. President. When, last year, we managed to introduce lactose-free milk into schools, there were several families who went to my Parliamentary Group asking that vegetable milk should also be introduced into the School Milk Programme. And here we are, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to make these very concrete proposals, which we hope will get the vote in favour of the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u170	Mrs Rita Rato signed up to speak on an article which has already been discussed on 213. o. It may make an intervention on the importance of Article 213. at the time of the debate, which will be at the end, when Article 1 is discussed. o, if you like. [[Laughing.]] As the latter are the first, the last article we have to discuss is Article 1. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u171	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u172	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u173	Mr President, the fact that we are following the order does not prevent an intervention on an article which has already been discussed, especially in order not to harm anyone who wants to make a final intervention in this speciality debate, because I believe that is the intention of the other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u174	Yeah, that's the point. in the discussion of Article 1. final interventions will also be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u175	We don't have that intention. It would therefore be more appropriate for Mrs Rita Rato to make an intervention now, before the final interventions, on Article 213. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u176	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u177	Mr President, it is always worth it, even more so when it comes to matters relating to public administration and the rights of workers, and the proposal we bring here is on this issue. With this proposal, we have been able to respond to the need for regularization of the situations of consolidating inter-categories and inter-carriage mobility of central and local public administration workers. Thousands of workers, with this proposal from the CFP, see the possibility of consolidation in the services where they work, which is important, appreciate their work and value the stability of the services. It was worth a fight. Workers have long been alerting to this need. With the previous PSD/CDS government, due to the lack of access competitions to other categories and careers, workers were in mobility without their consolidation. That is why I say, once again, that it has been worth and is worth intervening, at this headquarters, to value the rights of workers and fight for a more just country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u178	On Article 1. Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are finishing the debate on the State budget for 2017. in fact, this government benefits from unique conditions. It benefits a majority of the parliamentary submissory, who votes everything, putting into question the principles that it formerly advocated, whether the budget treaty, or the value of the deficit — this is now no longer relevant — and in which everything is accepted on behalf of the government's survival. This Government benefits from the cooperation of the President of the Republic, who, by creating a climate of confidence and stability in the country, ultimately favours the Government itself. in this logic, Portugal should have a much higher growth than the one that presents us. As the government has not been able to take advantage of the exceptional conditions, it presents us, either for this year or for next year, a level of growth below that we had in 2015. This Budget does not promote growth and will aggravate debt to cover the complicated yet undefined process of the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u180	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u181	I shall end, Mr President, immediately saying that this budget can ensure the survival of the government, but it is not good for the country, it does not serve the interests of the country, it does not have a direction and we will therefore vote against its approval. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u182	Still on Article 1. Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, the PSD concludes this debate, in the specialty, by making provocations to the other benches because it has little more to say about the Budget. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] This afternoon, we will still vote in committee on many proposals which we have discussed here and which will improve the lives of the Portuguese people — and I shall finish, Mr President, because the 15 seconds that he has had have already been spent — will respond to some of the immediate problems that the Portuguese workers and people have been demanding. And that's why the PSD is no more to do than provocations. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u184	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this last article which we are discussing, which is the first of the proposed law, it is worth saying that this budget was characterized by a lot of propaganda but very little essence, and this was particularly evident in the attitude they had in relation to the proposed amendments. The CDS did not merely criticize, on the contrary: the CDS criticized but with content, presenting proposals and alternatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u187	It is sad to see that this new majority, the management, regardless of the content of the proposals — I understand that some proposals are at the heart and disagree with them — even when it comes to topical proposals, in relation to proposals that could make a difference in people's lives or even in relation to proposals with which you, in essence, agree, by ideological sectarianism and by defending the maintenance of power, rejects them. It's a bad sign what happened in this Budget. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u188	Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate, in the specialty, proved that, after all, there was an alternative to blind austerity launched by the previous PSD/CDS government and that it is possible to grow without impoverishment. We saw the right, in this debate, hostage of the devil who never arrives and saw the right hostage of the disaster of his governance, which led the country to more unemployment, more emigration and more poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is possible to govern with more growth, with more social development, with more social cohesion and to maintain the country with good public accounts. The deficit fell in 2016 and will fall further in 2017 and the primary balance rose in 2016 and will rise again in 2017 to 2, 9 % of GDP, reaching, with this, a historic brand. This is also the Budget which promotes the recovery of income for families, with the elimination of overtax and with the elimination of the ESC (extraordinary contribution of solidarity ). This budget reinforces social cohesion, with increased family allowance, increased budget allocation for the elderly and increased budget allocation for social income for inclusion. This budget promotes more employment and reduces unemployment at the same time as the active population increases. This budget also promotes and increases public and private investment. By 31 December 2016, EUR 450 million of incentive will be placed in our companies, which contrasts with the EUR 4 million inherited from the previous PSD / CDS governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With more income for families, with more and better social cohesion, with more public investment, with more private investment, we keep 2017 as a year of more economic growth and more employment. The country will live better because the Portuguese will certainly be better and will live better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u190	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Budget we looked for the marks on the right: they did not take on the ideological plan that they had and that they presented to Brussels, did not increase the VAT of the restoration, did not reject cuts in the public service, did not have the courage to maintain the overtax to 90% of the taxpayers. on the contrary, this parliamentary majority managed to combat precariousness, achieved a commitment to integrate precariousness into the state, managed to increase all pensions below €640, managed to increase minimum pensions more than your majority did in four years, managed to eliminate the overtax to 90% of the taxpayers, obtained support for manuals and school meals, achieved social support, such as the solidarity supplement for the elderly and the social income of insertion, managed to update the indexer of social support and managed to increase the family allowance. We are proud, very proud, of the work we have done, in the field of expertise, to improve the State budget. What the PSD and the CDS will have to explain to the country is why they will vote against the increase in pensions, against social support and against the fight against precariousness. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u192	Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We ended the debate in the specialty. It was a joint debate for which all parliamentary groups presented proposals for amendments to the speciality and was an intense and excessive debate, which will mark these debates but do not erase the wealth that was the participation of the Members of all parliamentary groups, who made this Budget better at the end. For us, the discussion in the specialty was never a pro-formity, it was never a formality, it was to take it seriously and we took it seriously, contrary to what happened, for many years, in the past, in which the discussion in the specialty was only used for the government to make the changes that it wanted to make to its bill. in this budget debate this has not happened, nor in the previous one. Parliament has gained a new centrality and has influenced the debate in the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It wasn't a bad sign. It's a good sign. The CDS and PSD presented proposals and had their opportunity, in the specialty, to defend an alternative view of what the Budget should be. This is the case in democracy. Obviously, having a different view of the PSD and CDS, we could not follow the vast majority of the proposals that have been made to us, but the presentation of these proposals has enriched the debate. There is not a majority voting everything, there is a majority voting what improves the lives of Portuguese and improves living conditions in our country. Obviously we're all proud. The majority who supports this government and who prepares itself, in principle, to enable the Budget, in the overall final vote, is proud of what has been achieved with this Budget: to increase pensions, to improve the living conditions of those who have worked a life and who and deserve this recognition,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... to increase family allowance, and thus we help young families to have better conditions to be able to raise their children—better stimulus and better incentive to birth cannot be given that it is not through these instruments—to ensure universalization to 100% of preschool education throughout the country and to ensure family doctor for all Portuguese. In fact, these last two measures I have mentioned are examples, among many others, that allow us to reform our National Health Service and our public school in the right direction, in the sense of social progress and not retrogression. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These measures, which have been presented in the field of specialty, seem as simple but they are decency, such as social support for young people, children, students, who, having no ability to accompany their colleagues in the study visits, once again have the support of social action so that they do not stay in their schools to see their colleagues from the bus. [[Congratulations from the PS and PCP MP João Oliveira.]] In addition, school meals become provided to our children during vacation periods. These are measures that seem simple but that were not in force and that result from the debate in the specialty. The country is not stepping up, Mr Duarte Pacheco. We ended the year 2015 with an average growth rate for the entire year, it is true, but we ended the year 2015 slowing down. At the end of that year, we were not with a growth of 1, 5 % or 1, 6 %, as you know. We are ending the year 2016 with the growth rate of the economy increasing. This is a source of satisfaction not only to the government, to the PS, to the PCP, to the Block or to the Greens, but we are sure that it is also to you. And it will also have been a great satisfaction for the CDS and the PSD to know that Portugal has had the greatest growth of the European Union in the third quarter and will have also been a satisfaction for the PSD and for the CDS to know that in the last month when we have data, Portugal has had an increase of its exports of 6 %. We could even say what Dr. Paulo Portas said, at all times, in closing the government budget debates on exports, and said - in 2011, in 2012, in 2013, in 2014 and 2015 : « The year 2016 will even be the best year for Portuguese exports ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u194	I am only repeating the sentence that Dr. Paulo Portas always said and did not happen anything wrong in our exports: 2016 will be again the best year of always exports in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is obviously a reason for satisfaction for the PSD and CDS. It is not fair to speak in non-essential propaganda, when it increases, in an extraordinary way, pensions in 10 € and 6 €, something that the CDS never dared to do or propose! Never! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] It is true that we do not yet make the reduction of taxes that we want to make, but for the second time consecutively, taxes do not increase, and this is not only important, but labour income taxes decrease significantly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the reduction and elimination of the overtax, Mr President, we have started this journey - we have already said so many times - with the certainty that in those four years it was not necessary to have done what they did to the Portuguese people. It wasn't necessary! There is no justification, even because the main variable you were concerned about — public debt — continued to increase... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] The gentlemen. Members are laughing, but public debt has increased from 90 to almost 130. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We always said that it was not necessary to do to the Portuguese people what had been done for four years. [[CDS-PP protests.]] We said it was possible to live better! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you can make all the parts you want...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u195	You left the country in bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u196	Mr. Deputy speaks bankrupt, but you have left the country with a 40 percent higher debt! [[CDS-PP protests.]] You cannot justify what has been done in the country for four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We told the Portuguese people that it was possible to live better in this country and what we are doing every day is to show pensioners, to show young families, to show workers in the state, but also to workers in the private sector, which is even possible to live better in Portugal and which is worth living and working in this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u197	Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs made here the epilogue to the propaganda that constituted the debate on this budget. Mr Secretary of State, with regard to what he said about the opposition, we know how to defend ourselves well, there is no problem, but what he said about the Portuguese people is a huge disrespect. What the Portuguese people have experienced over the past four years has not been the result of a government decision that has been in the country in those years...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u199	Great can!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u200	What the Portuguese had to do in the last four years was pay the bill that the previous government has left, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Congratulations on the CDS and PSD.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] Does the Secretary of State talk about the increase in debt? Oh, my God! ... But explain how much did this increase in debt weigh the will that you left with the troika agreement? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u201	The Portuguese paid your ticket; they did not pay the PSD/CDS government options!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u202	What a demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u203	Therefore, if you are unable to respect those who have taken responsibility when you have turned your back on the country, respect those who have paid, who have been the Portuguese, and who have suffered a lot with what you have left.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u204	What a demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u205	Mr. Secretary of State, concentrate on not leaving a legacy as heavy to the Portuguese as you have last left. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u206	Mr Parlia­ment Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs is appointed for a new intervention. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We just talk in 2011 for the CDS to get excited,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u208	No, no; to get angry...!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u209	... there is nothing to go back to the past to see the CDS happy in its intervention—it is always better to discuss 2011 than 2016, we understand! However, Mr, if they had paid the cap the public debt would not have remained at 130, but at zero, at 80... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... come on, in 90, that's, on the same footing, but that's not what they did. The honourable Member and the Government that he supported and of which he took part cut wages,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... they cut pensions, cut rights, impoverished the country and left the public divide higher. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's true! Louder! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Your recipe has failed! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mr President, there is no problem with the debate on the past. But it is really important to talk about the present and the future, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u210	All right! Let's do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u211	Is it propaganda or is it true that this Budget increases pensions by 10 € and 6 €? Is it propaganda, sir? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u212	It is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u213	Is it propaganda that we increase the family allowance with the increase we make in the first 12 months for the first three years? Is it propaganda, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u214	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u215	Tell the Portuguese it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u216	It is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u217	Is it propaganda to reduce and eliminate the overtax? Is it propaganda, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u218	in this case it's not propaganda, it's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u219	The honourable Member says it's a lie.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u220	The law already determined it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u221	It is true that from 1 January, 91 % of the taxpayers pay zero surcharge and the remaining 9 % stop paying during 2017! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u222	60 percent never paid!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u223	It is not propaganda what we are doing and you know well, because you feel the same as we do every day, which makes - and we understand very difficult the work that you do...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u224	Don't worry; it was hard four years ago when you guys started walking...!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u225	It's difficult, but it's worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u226	Oh, now it's worth it! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u227	Because it is so fair and so important for the country to be ruling as being in opposition. It is not very easy, not sir; the country continues with many problems and we are facing them. There is no propaganda; there is government to build a country more cohesive, fairer and more prosperous. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-28.u228	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. I recall that we have not yet finished the discussion of the State budget in the field of specialty, because there is still a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization this afternoon and tomorrow we will have to vote on a number of rules, which will be advocados for plenary, before the global closure and final vote of the Budget. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 43 minutes.]]
