ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists are open. [[It was 14 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. We already have the minimum conditions to begin our agenda, and today we have as a single point the interpellation No 5 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — On the balance sheet for the school year ( PSD ). Thus, for an initial intervention, Mr Amadeu Soares Albergaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Education: The Minister considered that the school year went well. PSD says it could have been a lot better. The 2015 / 2016 school year started well and, predictably, it would end very well, not out of its performance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u3	And it didn't go worse, essentially, for three reasons. It didn't go worse because the education system is resilient, because we have dedicated directors, teachers and employees, because much of the effect of their imposed decisions, their backwardness, their precipitation, their unfounded longing and their obsession with constructive deconstruction will only be felt in the next school year. It didn't go much worse because, despite the radical left making education a privileged playground for all its moralist outrages and then trying to implement its design of a model of society that is absolutely statisticated, centralist and dominated by the agenda of a union, educational communities focus on their action and their concern in what really matters: ensuring that all students have a quality education, able to leverage not only the life projects of each one but also the social, cultural and economic development of the country. But, Minister, the school year didn't go well for the tranquillity of families, it didn't work well for the organization of the system and it didn't work well for the future of education. It didn't go well because you have abdicated to be the Minister of Education, has abdicated to serve students and promote the quality of public education service, because you are more concerned with obtaining the protectional blessings of the trade unionist Mário Nogueira and approval in your quarterly evaluations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u4	It's only one minute and 20 seconds to start saying nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u5	He has abdicated to be a minister. [[PSD applause.]] We have warned several times here about the difference between what it teaches and what it does. We have already warned here that, unlike continuing on the path of autonomy, we are returning to centralism on 5 October. We have already stated here that instead of transparency and information, we are returning to opacity. We have already confronted him with the fact that, unlike promoting the stability of the teaching body, he is betting on precariousness. We have already claimed here that, instead of misburocratization, we are taking back the worst and blind practices in school administration. We have already asked him to repent on his way, we have advised him not to break free by beer or mere prejudices, which has been achieved. Here we suggest caution. Mr Minister, however, chooses to ignore. You choose to see but not look; you choose to listen but not listen; you choose to be unpredictable; you choose to create instability instead of promoting trust, choose to back instead of moving forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u6	I don't think that was a good speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u7	It is by action and by facts, not by round and dated speeches, that the PSD evaluates its performance. And this is a disastrous, imponderated, barred act, that each office or intervention accumulates poorly disguised troops under media appeal. I only give nine, nine examples. Firstly, the instability in the evaluation system. in the same school year, schools and families were confronted with three different evaluation models. The Minister thinks it went well but forgets to say that schools and families did not like it and demonstrated it when half of them decided not to make the assessment tests. But, above all, it is forgotten that it broke with a continuous policy of 15 years and with the work of several ministers of obtaining data and statistical information from the end of the cycle, which was essential for the improvement of the system. Second example: the universality of pre-school education for children from three years of age was enshrined by the previous government, and it was determined to establish in concrete terms the year of implementation of this universality. This measure has been systematically postponed. We've heard 2018, we've heard 2019, and it's scary that we've heard 2020. Is it because the parties that support your government consider IPSS a client network of friends? Does it count or doesn't it count on the social sector? A third example: Mr President said he wanted to give stability to the teaching staff, to combat precariousness; however, rather than giving continuity to the policy of linking the frameworks, he went back to it, without explicably reducing the average of 1000 per year to a mere 100 in this year's external competition. Is this the fight against precariousness? Fourth example: the Minister says that school officials are very important. however, when asked directly about will increase the number of operational assistants due to the application of 35 hours per week choose not to respond. Are you going to use employment contracts and insertion or cleaning hours? Fifth example: Mr. Minister is going through the country to promise works in schools. however, in addition to the continuation of the works and commitments of Parque Escolar company, what do we have? Nothing! The Ministry did not intervene a single school in the country, a single asbestos plate was not removed and, worse, in the context of regional operational programmes there are now doubts about who supports the national public counterpart in the projects to re-qualify the infrastructures of schools of the Ministry of Education. Words such as « blackmail », « strange» or « inconformity» process are used by the municipalities, by the President of the National Association of Municipalities, to describe the performance of the Ministry and the absence of public information on the infrastructures signalled and agreed for intervention, which reveals much of what has been its performance. Sixth example: Mr. Minister was quick to accuse, to blame and to find scapegoats. But what do we really have at the end of this school year? Delays in transfers of POCH funds to professional schools, delays in funds to artistic institutions. You're gonna keep saying it's not your fault?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u8	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u9	Seventh example: the Minister claims to be the great paladin of the public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u10	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u11	But what is actually poured into the offices and diplomas published? A backwardness in the autonomy of schools, clearly both in the organisational office of the school year, and in the management of classes with students with permanent special educational needs. What do we really have for state school? Is it improving the conditions of school management and administration? Don't! Do you improve the level of class unfoldment? Don't! Greater flexibility and autonomy for the development of own and adjusted educational projects to your students? Don't! We have a qualitative impoverishment at the level of the artistic and physical-motor expressions of 1. the cycle, we have a time allocation mechanism that does not at all favour schools, we have even serious doubts that increases the assigned appropriations, which is blind, bureaucratic and intransparent. Eighth example: hastily and by pure prejudice and preconceived ideas, extinguish vocational offers in basic education, whose evaluation of schools and parents was positive and to which external evaluators had advised to continue, presenting as an alternative a tutoring regime that, despite well- meaning and already implemented in vocational education, will not have effective conditions to be applied successfully in schools. Putting on paper is easy, implementing on the ground successfully is much more difficult. Ninth example: the Minister did not caution the impact of a decision affecting thousands of families and teachers who legitimately trusted that contracts signed by the State with private and cooperative schools would last for three years, under the false — repeat, false — pretext of being benefiting from public school. But on what? Smaller classes? More employees for these schools? More teachers for these schools? Do you work for those schools? Don't! But the climate of social instability created and the inviolability of a study of the National Council of Education to measure, with care, the cost structure in public education and in private and cooperative education, in its various indicators, showed well the prejudices and the statistical model that they advocate. Did you hear the autarchs? Don't! Have you heard the Municipal Education Councils? Don't! Did you hear the directors of these schools, the parents, the teachers? Don't! Did you do a serious study on the network? Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u12	You heard everything and something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u13	No, no, no! The non-prepotent, arrogant and uninformed,... [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u14	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u15	... which places families against families, schools against schools, which interrupts educational courses, the fact that it causes dismissal and destabilization of students who are under examination, the fact that it only says yes to the political survival of Mr. Prime Minister. Where there was a coordinated balance and work, you brought instability. In September, we will have a worse school network with less supply. Is there a yes to you, Minister : are you brave to take it here that you are going to visit these colleges? The model of society we stand for is not a statized, egalitarian society that distrusts people, it is a model of society that we want to promote equity, social justice, which believes in people, in informed choice, bets on the synergies of institutions and on private initiative. We are all active actors in education; we are all school; we all contribute to the development of a true educational culture in Portugal. [[PS and PCP protests.]] We have already stated this, and we repeat: the biggest debt a country can generate is, by purely conjunctural agendas, to compromise the quality of its education and training system. Mr. Minister may be here applauded by the left that currently supports this government, but will not be applauded by the Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u16	Mr President, time beyond what is assigned to you at this stage will be discounted in time for debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u17	All right, Mr. President. As I said, it will not be applauded by the Portuguese, for the price that they will pay for the disunity, prepotence and arrogance will be too high. The Minister considers that the academic year has gone well, because the PSD responds that the academic year could have run much better, not the Minister. Take your way, do not bring the history of your party and, above all, do not question the future of the new generations. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u18	I have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Minister for Education, to whom I wish to congratulate, as well as the entire team present.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a repeated honour to be here with you this morning. Luckily, I've had the opportunity to make more and more and more rich out of here than I came in here. in the almost seven months of my term as Minister of Education, I had the pleasure of coming to share with you and discussing the implementation of the Government's Programme in the education, youth and sport sectors, which I took care of on 11 occasions. I therefore come to share with this Parliament, periodically for the rest of the year, as we are ruling, either because the parliamentary timetable so asks for it, either because the government action so advises it, or because they had the generosity to call me to you to be able to reassure you of the concern that you had so far lived. So they have allowed me to reassure you, as well as, and so important, the Portuguese who represent, repeatedly, either in the seat of the Specialized Commission, or in this magnificent Plenary, where I have indeed had the short privilege of playing the noble role that you have been given. Members continue, having the happiness of contributing to what unites us all, both in this and this bench: the common good of our fellow citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the last month, the two parties that before us ruled and that in the last elections lost the support of the Assembly, felt the need to be reassured, first, about the educational policies that we are, as foreseen in the program that the Assembly approved, to implement. We felt that these two parties were equipped with the answers and evidence needed to bring this calm to them. Prove that — in the same way that I come from here ever more full than when I get here — the honourable Members have been more calm. Members of the Government's opposition is that today they no longer call me to speak of the nearer or more distant future, but to reflect on the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us then reflect together, in the form of a balance sheet, on the academic year, which, by happy timetable affinity, almost coincides with the balance sheet of the Legislative Session. Making a balance sheet of a complex process such as a school year is inevitably an exercise with risk but surely indispensable, even more so when, as in our case, we assume responsibilities with this year already with a third year, as well as widely conditioned and on several fronts, on the borders of commitment. This circumstance, which has to be implemented by this House under conditions inherited from the controversial implementation of the Government Programme which this House no longer supports, reinforces the necessity of this balance sheet in the same movement which reduces the risk of this exercise. In other words, it is even more necessary to carry out this balance sheet but it is less risky to exercise, because it is quite clear the drawing of the two parameters that build any balance sheet, as was before and how it is now presented, which is what is currently a balance sheet target. This clarity enables me to trust that you too now. Members of the final right coalition, at the end of this debate, can feel as calm as they deserve to be, and certainly are and will be, the Portuguese they represent here. You will find that this tranquility has broad foundations in which to base, the first of which is the Government Programme which, although rejected by the PSD and the CDS, has received the majority support of this House. This is, and must be, the first reason for your tranquillity, because, in order to be calm, it is not necessary to agree, it is sufficient to recognize the meaning in fulfilling what is disputed but with which most agree. The second source of your tranquillity is this Programme being fulfilled through a transparent, rational and participatory method and practice. They are transparent, rational and involved because they are based on public sharing of information, the broad promotion of debate and the clear assumption of the decision, as well as in the time and mode of implementation which fulfils the programmed, naturally and logically enriched with the debate in which all those who wanted to participate in it participated. The third motor force of the tranquility that I transmit to you here, and which I trust you to accept, is the good sense that governs what we have done, how we have done and when we have done it. When you have a Government Programme to execute, when your implementation starts with the school year already started and under heavily circumscribed legislative budgetary conditions by options taken by others, it recommends the good sense to do exactly what we did: correct, map, maintain and plan. Circumstances further aggravated by the narrow perimeter in which the former Government has, in animably, conditioned the education sector. Objectively and statistically, the right-supported government was the one that invested most in education, and invested more in it than in any other area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The four-year de-investment does not compare with any other sector of previous government or government, even with governments formed from the same ideological geometry as the one that preceded us. I therefore reiterate that, in these conditions, it recommends the good sense that we do exactly what we did: correct, map, maintain and plan. Urgently correct what is wrong and which can still be corrected, eliminating or reducing its harmful effects. Map accurately what has to be maintained, not because it is good or has good effects, but because it cannot be corrected immediately, since the inherited conditions do not allow it, just so that its correction can happen within a reasonable and sustained period. Keeping what works well, because it always worked well or because it still works well despite the strangulation suffered, to a large extent thanks to the remarkable commitment of the educational community. Finally, create conditions so that the much to be restored, compensated, empowered and innovative in the education sector can be implemented, having as a temporary horizon the legislature and as a programme horizon the Programme approved here and the fulfilment of which is precisely the responsibility of this Chamber to monitor. Since the Government's programme has already been debated and voted for half a year ago, then we will not debate who and why it agrees or disagrees with it, but rather do what the Portuguese certainly expect of us: assess to what extent and how this programme is being fulfilled. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Whether to correct what is urgent, whether to map what still needs to be improved, but which requires additional time and resources, whether to maintain and encourage what is good for it to be even better, whether to prepare for the future, which is already tomorrow and after tomorrow, the three and a half years in which this legislature has the responsibility to respond to what its Portuguese expect and has a name: national education service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u20	In the light of the opening interventions, we will initiate requests for clarification. Thus, to request clarification from Mr Amadeu Soares Albergaria, you have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u21	Mr President, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, I begin by greeting the PSD for giving us another good opportunity to discuss what happened this year in the area of education, and nothing better than comparing how we started and how we ended the year. I want to remember, because there are things that when they are bad and they end it's easy to forget that they existed at least, that we started the school year with the possibility of sending to the teaching requalification of schools and that this is over. I recall that we started the year with the school contract ( ECB ) to launch chaos in school contracts. There were schools in the middle of the year without teachers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u22	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u23	...because the scholarship didn't allow you to hire teachers on time, and it's over. [[Protests by PSD Member Amadeu Soares Alberaria.]] I recall that we began the year with the existence of a evidence of humiliation for teachers who only served to mask the unemployment of contractees, and that is over. I remember that we started the year with exams in the 4th. it's 6. the years, whose pedagogical utility continues to prove, and that this ended. I recall that we started the year without complying with the law on association contracts and that it is finally complying with the law. [[Right now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u24	I recall that we started the year with late wages in artistic education, with the schools of artistic education with the « rope in the throat»,... [[PSD protests.]] ...and that, finally, is solved. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I remember that we started the year with paralysed works and without planning when they would start again, and until then we started planning. I recall that we began the year to think that there were 30,000 students to whom the school had nothing else to give and that they could therefore stay in vocational courses, that their school course was a ghetto, and that will also end. We ended this year without any of this, with promises of a better future,... [[The custom!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u25	... with promises to start next year better than this, including free school textbooks for the first year of 1. the cycle. We ended the year without chaos, the news of the announced chaos was manifestly exaggerated. But that's not all. We also got, uh... [["We" who?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u26	... finally, at the end of so many years of strangulation, that society, the country, went out on the street to think of public school, to mobilize itself by public school. The public school was once again a mobilisation factor of society and this we all have to welcome, because it is very important that the country thinks about public school and cares about public school. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Now that we have seen that chaos did not exist, I think it is time to stop filling many pages with empty words and start thinking about the future, and the future can only be peaceful. And it is on behalf of this tranquillity at the beginning of the next academic year that I call on the right-wing parliamentary groups not to feed the idea that it is possible to register children who were in colleges with association contracts even though the government has already said there will be no vacancies. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u27	It is that this, yes, can create unnecessary chaos and will only harm the students. Therefore, they do not feed the idea that it is possible to blackmail the government in this way, registering students even though there are no vacancies with schools with association contract. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] [[Chantage makes BE!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u28	To reply, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u29	Madam President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, I thank you for your statement because you do not ask, but I must disagree with what has been said by the honourable Member. I must also remind the Minister that the previous government has ruled in a situation of economic, financial and social emergency... [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u30	That's an exorcism!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u31	They don't like it, but it's history! [[PS Protests and PCP Deputy Rita Rat.]] For the former Government, education was always a priority in spite of this. The student was the center of educational policies and no student remained behind. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] The taxpayers' money has been respected. Step-by-step measures have been introduced that have enabled greater rigor and quality, increased demand and made the system more efficient and transparent,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u32	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u33	...with a set of data that have allowed, and allow, at every moment, to monitor and scrutinize both the policies and the results that would be achieved. And the results, Mrs Deputies, have improved, as can be seen, for example, by the drop-out rate, which has been substantially reduced. Mrs. Members, all of this is being questioned because this school year was attended to the end of the implementation of incrementalist, gradualist measures, grasping of all previous ministers of education, and was confronted with reversals, unstablely, with the promotion of the division of educational communities, as we have now seen, with the student no longer being the center of educational political action. This school year, if we examine it carefully, is really the reflection of what you are trying to do to education in Portugal. It began to be quiet and could have been quiet had it not been for the work of the Minister of Education and the guardian of it, and that was quite clear here. An act that leads us to the model of a statized society, which we refuse, which distrusts people, which says that voluntary work is a trick, that the IPSS is a client network, that the IPSS cannot be part of the pre-school network. The model that we will denounce and that we refuse is a retrograde model, surpassed,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u34	...that betrays the history of the Socialist Party itself, but that rises,... [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] ... Mr Porfirio, because what is at stake is the political survival of a Prime Minister who, to rule and be Prime Minister, has been caught by the Left Block and the PCP. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u35	I said that in your speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u36	Mr Porfirio, would you like me to remind you of the electoral result of the Aveiro district? Ten PSD / CDS-PP and 5 PS members were elected! His model was absolutely rejected by the voters of Aveiro and the Portuguese voters, Mr. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u37	This school year began well, I repeat, and could have ended better, not the performance of the Minister and his guardians, Mrs Deputy and Mrs De Clercq. Ladies and gentlemen. The debt you are leaving for future generations is unacceptable and has to end now! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u38	To ask the Minister for Education for clarification, eight were registered. Ladies and gentlemen. The Bureau was informed that the Minister will respond to blockloads of four requests for clarification. Thus, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u39	Mr President, Minister for Education very quickly just to ask the following: the problems in late payments to professional and artistic schools through the POCH (Operational Capital Human Programme) are no new problems. however, they remain and it is a concern of the school community to know how we will correct them. With regard to artistic education, we are already clear, because the issue has to do with the extraordinary competition opened by the previous government and that is where the problems with delays in financing arise. But, with regard to vocational schools, the question has to do with the funding of the POCH and since we cannot ask the PSD to suggest solutions to this problem — during his government he has existed and no solutions have been found and, therefore, it is certainly not now that they will get them — the question he would leave is how he thinks he will solve this problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u40	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Nilza de Sena.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u41	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr Minister may come here to speak in peace and in good sense, but the whole country is aware of the ideological theism of the government, of the subservience to the union agenda and of how it has thwarted the legitimate expectations of families, parents, students, employees.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u42	Not the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u43	So there's no giving again. If a month and a half ago we didn't know what would be the impact of reducing the number of classes with an association contract, the truth is that today this is already the closure of institutions, as was reported this week.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u44	This minister knows nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u45	in these cases, students who will be without college will not only be those of the classes at the beginning of the cycle, will be all students, Minister. Now, the government has done a network study, the famous « Google Study », which has been done without rigour, in a hurry, with inadequacies, with inequities, with gross mistakes even and, therefore, Mr Minister, the concern about the next school year is grueling. I would therefore like you to inform the House and the country of the following: first of all, if you have already ensured with the authorities that all these students are transported to school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u46	Of course not!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u47	Secondly, if schools with association contracts close, are they guaranteed vacancies for these students who are obliged to migrate, against their will and that of their families, to the State school?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u48	They're not going to migrate! They're not there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u49	Are these students guaranteed vacancies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u50	They're fooling people!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u51	In some areas, if instead of 30 students are 500, 600 or 700 students and if there is no capacity in the school of the same council to integrate them, where are these students going, Minister? When do they report the results of the applications for families and schools to be organized? It was because of these and other issues that the PSD presented a proposal for the National Education Council to conduct an independent, calm, time-consuming study on impacts, assessing the cost structure and installed capacity of schools, but that the left bankers rejected. Mr. Minister, the Portuguese State has been sharing some 20 000 low-income families for more than 30 years, I repeat, with low-income families. The PSD wants to know if these students have, in September, their school or insured school transportation, and if they do not have to walk miles to another region only by ideological, radical, sectarian whim.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u52	You must be talking about your government when you've closed schools!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u53	The Minister has decided only to fulfill contracts with your friends and not with the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u54	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u55	To ask for clarification, you have the floor to Mrs. Ana Virginia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, in this Parliament, it was already possible to move forward with concrete measures, with the contribution of the CFP, which meet the demands of the school community. It was thus possible, on the proposal of the CFP, to revoke the retraining of career teachers, preventing them from being transferred to this process which would lead them to unemployment sooner than later. On a proposal from the CFP, it was possible to initiate a process of progressive freeness of school textbooks, with the prospect of ensuring equality in access and success at school. in the next school year, in fact, students entering 1. The year you're going to have free school textbooks. On a proposal from the PCP, the PACC ( Knowledge and Capabilities Assessment Test ) was eliminated, an unfair test, which only served to humiliate and narrow the entry of teachers into the career. On a proposal from the CFP, the examinations of the 4 were eliminated. the e of the 6. the years of schooling, which resolved nothing in terms of learning, only selected students to send them to more disqualifying ways. Mr Minister, these are very positive but insufficient measures. We need to go further. There are many problems still to be solved in public school and many have been aggravated by the policies of the previous government. The question of the linkage of teachers needs to be resolved in order to end the precariousness experienced by these professionals. The lack of employees is also a problem present in our schools that it is important to resolve, in particular the situation of workers in employment-inclusion contracts. The degradation of the School Park is evidence in many schools, much felt by school communities that claim their requalification in order to give a quality response to all agents and students. Our question is as follows: what is the Ministry's perspective on the need to value public school, providing it with the human and material resources it lacks so much? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u57	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Abel Baptista.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, in his speech, he spoke on two issues that I cannot make clear: the first is the question of tranquility and the other is about the future. First, to talk about the future would imply that this schedule had been made for this purpose, but this schedule was made to talk about the balance sheet of the school year. Therefore, it is not to talk about the future, until if we were to talk about it, Minister, we would have to call here not the Minister of Education but the representative of FENPROF, Professor Mário Nogueira, because it is he who determines future policies in the Ministry of Education. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u59	Exactly! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u60	So on this subject it would not be Mr Minister coming here, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u62	At most the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u63	Oh, good! Some credit!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u64	Secondly, the Minister spoke calmly about the policies he has developed over the past few months as Minister of Education. Quietness is what is happening with sponsorship contracts with schools where many students who do not have that kind of response in public school are taught and to which Mr. Minister has EUR 4 000 000 000 to pay? I know you're going to say that this is a problem of the last government, but you're not, Minister. First, your Ministry has failed the truth because it says it is a problem of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has said that it has no visa pending, that it has returned 44 cases in March and that the Ministry has not responded.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u65	March!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u66	I repeat : in March and the Ministry has not yet responded. So this is not a problem of the previous government, it is a problem of this.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u67	Who instructed the processes?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u68	The former government had made the contracts, had submitted them to a visa; if there is a problem with the visa, it must be resolved by whom it is currently in the Ministry, or at least it must answer, Mr. Secretary of State, and not shake the head, because that does not solve the problem and it must be resolved. There's the tranquillity of this Ministry!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u69	You want Mr. Mário Nogueira's phone? We'll get it! Or the e-mail!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u70	Mr Minister, now, quiet is what is happening with the blackmail that the President of the National Association of Municipalities accuses the Ministry of Education, when he says that he will perform works in secondary schools with Community funds, for which 15% national participation is needed, and he is demanding — the words of the President of the National Association of Municipalities, of the Socialist Party, say — that 15% are paid by the municipalities, without even negotiations? Minister, is this quiet in the Ministry of Education? Is it quiet that there are students who would eventually want to prove their worth — since the Minister has changed his name — and the schools have not wanted to do so, not allowing these students to do so? Is that quiet, Minister? Oh, my God! It is a very worrisome calm, very frightening, even in this case. The Minister has to step up his path, because in this way I do not believe that he continues to think that education in Portugal has a great future. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u72	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the various questions, questions and concerns put forward after I have taken on — I have seen that not in a very calm manner — that the opposition would be quiet right now, after the 11 times we have been here. It is important to see that the PSD now, particularly Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, has a growing concern for directors and teachers of our national education service. It is something I understand, it is absolutely remarkable, after four and a half years, to see Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria talk about the concerns with regard to teachers and directors. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u74	Four answers!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u75	But I would like to ask you, Mr President, if, after all, you have here a radical minister or a minister who abstained from being? I tell you that you have here a minister concerned about our school, about the public school, whether education is the cornerstone and the pillar dies from the creation of competences. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u76	Is that why you're going to close the colleges? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u77	But it is important that the PSD considers that this school year went well. It is true that the PSD does not like this Minister of Education, nor this ministerial team,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u78	It's not just PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u79	... but it is important to understand also, and I think that we all understand, even the country, that it is better to have the PSD not to like the Minister of Education and the school year running well than having the PSD to like the Minister of Education and the school year being a disaster like this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u80	Go talk to the autarchs!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u81	It is important to talk about what is important, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u82	What is that? Is it the roadside and the Beira road?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u83	And to talk about what's important is to talk about vocational education and what's happening there. As we know, we have a heavy heritage, not only what it was thinking about, idealizing and organizing operational programs. We all know that it is not just a single problem of education, it is transversal, not only in the thematic operational programmes but also in the management authority and regional operational programmes. however, actors in the field welcome what is truly changing. Now, we are at an absolutely fundamental moment, when many of our students are making decisions about the course to be taken. We all insist here, mainly through the approved Government Programme, that it is important to credibility in vocational education. We now have 44% of our students who complete secondary education through vocational education. It is our goal, through the National Reform Programme, to have 55 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u84	That's good.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u85	We had, this week, something particularly grueling and worrying that has been transmitted to us by many professional schools. What a fine service—and that's exactly what I'm saying—Mrs. PSD members have lent to professional schools! in an absolutely fundamental moment, when it is important not to stigmatize professional education, in which many families are deciding whether to send their children to vocational education or other ways, we confront ourselves with lies, with errors of truth,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u86	Lies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u87	... mainly in the district he represents, Mr. Amadeu Alberbergaria, clearly presenting schools and placing on the public square names of institutions. The honourable Member, as we all know, has an advertising company. It is important to know that "marketing" for institutions is important and we know that "marketing" is important. Professional schools are currently presenting their portfolio of courses and need to be credible. What happened this week was very loud and representative associations are concerned. [[PSD protests.]] I mean, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some positive aspects. On the one hand, the network is already approved—in the previous year it was approved only in October—and on the other hand, there is scrupulously compliance with the criteria defined for the preparation of the network. It is also important to tell you, Mrs Joana Mortágua, that a network study and criteria for the opening of classes is planned shortly. We have, as I said, a strong legacy of chaos in the POCH, delays in financing due to the very late approval of the network and the opening of the invitation to tender without forms. It is important to say that the diagnosis is made and that we are currently implementing portals so that, in fact, we can bring some quiet to schools at the beginning of next school year. It is also important to talk about artistic education. We know that what has happened in artistic education is the absolute responsibility of the previous government. We had an ordinary school contest, which took place between July and August, which was resolved by this guardianship. The request for prior hearings and additional inquiries took place in August / September and then we fell into chaos, into real moving sands, which we could, through a task force, as we said in this Chamber, solve. But what happens is that when the current government took possession it also had to confront itself with an extraordinary invitation to tender and are unique and exclusively the emerging funds of this extraordinary invitation to tender which are pending visas from the Court of Auditors. It is important to say at the moment that the liability for delays has never been borne by this Ministry charged to the Court of Auditors, Mr. Members, contrary to what has happened in the past, and it is important to say that the doubts raised by the Court of Auditors are related to some complex matters that we are trying to resolve. On the one hand, because there was no extraordinary procedure in the law, and on the other hand, because the minute of the sponsorship contract made by the previous Government — also responding to Mr. Abel Baptista — was not approved by the gate, which makes us now have a long list of 14 elements that we have to resolve and to which we have to answer to the Court of Auditors. The selection criteria for the previous competition have also been changed and it is important that we are currently working so that this component, which is important but is minority, can be resolved. Madam President, if you give me permission, I would like the Secretary of State to speak about association contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u88	Even during this period of responses to requests for clarification, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u89	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u90	You have the floor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u91	Good day to all. Mrs Nilza de Sena, the answers to your questions are yes and yes. Yes, there will be transport, which is currently being treated with the authorities. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u92	False! What authorities?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u93	I note, moreover, that the PSD has stopped talking about redundancy, stopped talking about the right of choice and stopped talking about other aspects that it referred to. None of this has to do with association contracts and now it is transport, but it will also be resolved. [[Protests by PSD Member Amadeu Soares Alberaria.]] Yes, yes, it's transport! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The other question is yes, too. under the circumstances of schools decide to close the doors, public schools will welcome students. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But let me tell you this: this is not going to happen. And the best proof that it won't happen is that the 40 colleges that could open cycle starts have all competed for the contest. Everyone, everybody! They all competed without exception. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[That's not true!]] [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u94	It's true, they've all competed. All the colleges competed, which was opened one month before the similar invitation to tender opened by the previous government — a month earlier! Therefore, as regards preparing the school year early or late, we have said! Our competition opened a month earlier and will therefore have ended a month before what happened last year. So in terms of chaos and preparation, this is what I wanted to say: there will be no chaos, there will be no chaos is the guarantee that we give you here. And what I just said is true: we're dealing with transport with the authorities. [[What authorities?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u95	Very varied. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u96	Mr Minister, you still have a second group of questions to answer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u97	Yes, but I wanted to answer Mrs Ana Virginia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u98	...but perhaps Mr. Minister wishes to leave for the next period of answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u99	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u100	Let's move on. You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr. Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have become accustomed, in this plenary, to the fact that when the PSD has no arguments it always sends us to the Memorandum of Troika. We have heard Mr Amadeu Alberbergía answer the questions that have always been asked to him with the memoir of the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u102	Questions? What questions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u103	And I, with some curiosity, went to research in the Memorandum of the Troika where was the model of evaluation of artistic education that Nuno Crato invented at the time of PSD / CDS governance. In fact, there was nothing of it in the Memorandum of Troika and that is exactly why we had a right-wing governance that devastated public education, devastated the public school, always in the name of such a Memorandum which, in fact, did not refer to many of these aspects. It is precisely on the model for the evaluation of artistic education, Mr Minister, that I would like to ask you a question. A number of draft resolutions that repealed the current model of artistic education evaluation that Nuno Crato invented were approved here in the Assembly of the Republic. The Government itself said to agree with this revocation and was open to prepare a discussion on a new model of assessment, more inclusive and fairer. Let us also remember that this same evaluation model, which is still in force, was a model that destabilized and devalued the evidence of artistic fitness and changed the equation between the scores of exams and disciplines in access to higher education. Mr Minister, that was exactly what I wanted to ask you about, i.e. whether we can be assured that next school year there will be a new model for artistic education, a fairer model and that corrects the aberrations invented by the previous right-wing government. [[Congratulations from BE and PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u104	For a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Susana Lamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD questioned the Ministry of Education about the serious delays in paying to vocational schools, following several complaints we received after the visit to some of these schools. I am obviously referring to transfers of funding from the Operational Human Capital Programme. Mr Minister, in statements to Lusa, his Ministry, last day 22, reacted by ensuring that more than 75 % of the funds allocated to vocational schools have already been paid and that only 12 % of the volume of expenditure is being processed. It happens, Mr. Minister, that the professional schools of Paços Brandão, Gondomar, Vidigueira, Salvaterra de Magos, Rio Major, Tondela, and many others have given us knowledge that since January they have not received 1 cent from this government. Yes, Mr. Minister, not one cent!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u106	Only now did you find out that? Oh, my God! Better late than never!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u107	We are at the end of the school year and the transfers have not yet been made and, as you know, or should at least know, these delays pose problems, and serious problems. Some of these schools had to resort to loans under very unfavourable conditions, others delayed payments and some were even forced to make redundancies. Mr Minister, this is of course a situation that the PSD is very concerned about and deserves the best attention. Do we know that there are professional schools that have not yet paid wages, there are even workers with two and three months of late wages, and the Minister guarantees that he has already paid more than 75% of the money? The truth is that the Minister lied to the Portuguese people, lied to Parliament and lied to the country, or, then, tell me, Minister, if these professional schools are lying. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u108	For a request for clarification on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, we cannot fail to note here this political hypocrisy of the PSD, with the concerns that it brings here today, when for four years it has aggravated the problems of public school and did nothing to solve them. We note this political hypocrisy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u110	Hypocrisy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u111	It is clear, of course, in this debate, as it was clear in previous debates, that both the PSD and the CDS, what it costs them, are the positive steps — in fact, with the contribution of the CFP and which the CFP has pointed out today — which have already been given and here identified. It costs you, ladies. Members, because what the PSD and the CDS wanted was, yes, to continue the path of fragility and dismantling of public school, as they have done for four years. Because what they wanted was to continue favouring private school, to continue a path of financial impoverishment, of pedagogic impoverishment of public school, in a prolonged attempt to destroy it, as they did when schools were closed — Mrs. Members, we do not forget — when they imposed mega groupings, when they implemented the number of students by class,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u112	But would you look here? Oh, my God! Turn over there, to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u113	... with obvious losses to teachers and students; when they applied gross cuts in public school or when they despised and devalued, by the measures taken, the professionals of education; when they ran over their rights and the rights of children and young people...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u115	... and they particularly seriously violated the rights of children and young people with special educational needs. This is indeed the question that we want to put to you, because it is the result of policies over the past four years, especially the PSD and CDS, that special education is now in great difficulties. It is because of these policies that there is at present a situation of deep shortage of special education professionals in schools, a situation that really needs to be resolved. Mr Minister, it is important to ensure that children and young people with special educational needs have the necessary follow-up and, for that reason, it is essential — I repeat, it is indispensable — to ensure human resources, whether teachers, or other special education professionals, as well as the material means that effectively respond to the needs of these children and young people, because it is important that what is the inclusive public school is carried out and felt daily and in the daily life of children and young people with special educational needs. We understand, in fact, that the right to education is a fundamental right, that must be guaranteed to all Portuguese on equal opportunities and that it must respond to the educational needs of everyone and everyone. Mr Minister, the question we have left you here is to know what measures, and what the temporary window of these measures, which the Government intends to implement, in order to meet the needs of children and young people with special educational needs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u116	For a final request for clarification, Mrs. Germana Rocha, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, the subject I bring to this debate is not new, given that the PSD Parliamentary Group has already asked questions to the Ministry which you are directing, and has not so far received any answers. I am referring, in particular, to the payment of the national counterpart in the framework of Community projects for the retraining of school infrastructure, in which several municipal chambers, in a joint action within the framework of the Regional OPs, have abdicated from the Community's participations aimed at the rehabilitation of schools they hold in favour of the requalification of schools which are within the competence of the Ministry of Education, because they are urgent situations and of great interest to their populations. In the meantime, in the face of the stalemate, our authorship expresses a great deal of concern about the lack of availability by its Ministry with regard to the payment of 15 % of the national counterpart, which are crucial to the viability of these works, thus wanting to impose an additional financial burden on municipalities. In this regard, I recall that the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, in communiqué, has already expressed its concern about the development of this process and reaffirms that the responsibility for the payment of the counterpart here concerned is of the Government and not of the local authorities, still classifying the procedure of the Ministry of Education of Strange and Inconform with what was assumed by the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, on this issue. Is this what they say as 'the word given, the word honored'? Mr Minister, the question that I am asking you is very simple: are you in a position today, before Parliament and before our authorities, that the Government will honour its commitments, taking responsibility for the payment of the national counterpart in respect of these projects? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u118	Mr. Minister of Education, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u119	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, returning to vocational education—and it is important to do so to reassure the whole spectrum of professional schools that are, at this moment, as I said earlier, at a vital moment in the school year—it is at this time that professional schools present themselves in order to enable students to become encapsulated into the vocational pathways. in this sense, turning back, it is important not to create moving sands, at the moment, in the marketing work of professional schools. Only with this credibility will we be able to get professional schools to present themselves to our families and our students as competitive structures in order to attract our students. And because the demand made by the Social Democratic Party spoke in a considerable number of schools, including those schools, it is also important to mention that these schools—and what has been said is actually a lie—have received transfers since January. As you know, vocational education is a bet, a real priority for us—including, next week, I will have the possibility to discuss competence issues and issues of vocational education within the OECD. It is also true — and here I repeat — that 75 % of all that was being examined is currently paid. You can tell me that operational programmes have problems. Yes, it is true, because we inherited problems; it is true that computer platforms were perfectly chaotic when we took possession. Yeah, it's true, and we're solving it. If we are told that it is a real step forward what has been done in such a short period of time to be able to solve the problem of many of the professional schools that state, yes, it is true. in this sense, what we did, after what we inherited, was a real step to be able to pacify, and not stigmatize, professional education. With regard to the questions that have been put, particularly Mr. Abel Baptista, who spoke about the issues of evaluation and the change of name, I must say that it was not just a change of name, Mr. As you know, we have opted for a different system, which was included in our Government Programme, and it is also necessary to say that many of the directors are now talking about how peaceful the whole process was. When we were told that there would be a great entropy in carrying out the measurement tests, I must say that, of all those students who had the opportunity to do the measurement tests, 96% did them. And they were able to do it at their school, where they usually have classes, contrary to what happened in the past, where they were often moved to the headquarters of the grouping, including, as some directors said, in ambulances, as if an emergency exercise were concerned. Now, this year, this did not happen and the evidence took place in their classrooms, in their natural environment, without the artificialisms that existed in previous years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u120	5,000 students are missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u121	It is important to note that this high adherence and also the absence of abnormal occurrences attests to the seriousness and professionalism of this whole process. On the other hand, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira told us about the issues of special education. As you know, Mrs. Member, we have worked very closely with the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities and we have a diagnosis that we have already made here: on the one hand, a low participation of students with special educational needs in class activities; on the other hand, many of our students with special educational needs spend a lot of time away from the classes that correspond to them. And there is a serious need at this time to distinguish between the problems that lead to the special needs of a longer character and those that are of a temporary nature. in this sense, we are also clarifying the competences and relationships between therapeutic support and educational support, for which a working group has been set up, which has as its main guide the specific recommendations by the United Nations Commission for the revision of legislation. in this sense, it is important to say that we have a working group, this working group that will have to reach conclusions in 90 days. And after the creation of this working group, which has already started working on Monday, and after having the conclusions of this working group, we will have to put into practice everything that the working group recommends, also affecting funds for the vocational training of technical and teaching staff, and inducing, because it is also very important in normative terms, through dispatches, greater inclusion in the enrolments, with the increase in the length of stay of students, something which was welcomed by the Portuguese Autism Federation ( FPDA), by the ACAPO ( Association of the Blind and Ambíopes of Portugal), by the Fenacerci ( National Federation of Cooperatives of Social Solidarity ), which is important. On the other hand, because this was also often mentioned here, there is a real promotion of the continuing training of teachers of special education recruitment groups. As regards the questions asked by Mrs Ana Virginia of the CFP, and not only, I mean that, as you know, we have 100 new retrainings of non-teaching staff who will take office and, on the other hand, have already been renewed about 2900 end-of-term contracts, which ended on 31 August. We also know that freeness was widely promoted by the Portuguese Communist Party, which, in conjunction with the Socialist Party, also promoted the progressiveity of school textbooks. in this academic year 2016 / 2017, we will already have 100 000 students covered, with a considerable cost. And at the moment, we also have a working group, which has been created, on the one hand, for the acquisition model, which is already working this year, and on the other, for the whole question of the reuse of school textbooks. It is an extended working group, which includes the economy, parental confederations, the Portuguese Association of Editors and Booksellers ( APEL ) and which will also reach conclusions in 90 days to implement a true model of reuse of school textbooks. On the other hand, we were talking about investing in schools, territorial pacts. As you know, the Pacts for Development and Territorial Cohesion, concluded by the previous Government, through a mapping, foresees interventions in more than 500 schools. I would like to make it clear that it has been a process which has been particularly successful with the authorities, and 50 % of the authorities which have mapped educational establishments have already sent us that they would accept, and some of them, including, have already signed the agreements for the transfer of work. It is also important to say that national public participation has also been discussed with the municipal chambers and many of the authorities have announced the transfer and completion of the work. Madam President, I would like the Secretary of State to be able to discuss the issues of artistic education posed by Mr. Bloc de Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u122	You have the floor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u123	Mr President, Mr Luís Monteiro, the model of financing artistic education is under review, keeping it in principle with the financing of the State budget, but taking into account, in the definition of this funding, the levels of education and the area, the sector, let us say so. This is being dealt with, and there have already been first meetings with representative entities in the sector. It is necessary to do this with calmness and weight, but it is a matter that we are currently reviewing and thinking about within the scope of the door to review other aspects of the competition itself and how it was carried out last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u124	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u125	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, are you asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u126	For an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u127	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u128	Mr President, with regard to the reference made by the Secretary of State to the negotiation with regard to school transport, I would like to ask for the distribution of the response of eight municipalities, which we have already received from about 38 of which we ask, which realize that no estimate has been made, no cost is calculated on changes in school transport. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u129	That's how it will be done. Please make this documentation available to the Bureau for distribution. There are no further requests for clarification to the Government before we move on to the interventions, which I take advantage of to ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who made silence in the Chamber. It is often difficult to hear who is in the use of the word, because there is a permanent background noise. I'm leaving this appeal. Mr Pedro Pimpão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u130	Mr President, Mr Minister for Education, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I begin by stressing the importance of today's debate on one of the areas crucial to our country's development, education, which must truly be seen as a national design. This is because it is through education that we provide more competences so that our young people can more positively view the future construction of their personal and professional life projects and it is through education that we promote equal opportunities for all children and young people, regardless of their social or territorial origin, and thus contribute to the reduction of asymmetries that remain in our country. And if there is an area that needs stability and a serious and profound assessment of the public policies implemented, education is one of them. however, this is such an important area, we regret how it has been treated by the current government caste, which has been generating much instability in the educational environment. As we are well reminded, the controversy about the examinations and the proofs of measurement and the withdrawal of Mr. Minister, the ridiculous submission of the Minister's quarterly evaluation to a union leader; the demagogic and merely ideological crusade against the public education service provided by schools with association contracts; or even the resignation of a Secretary of State of this Ministry of Education, who went out loudly, in deep disagreement with Mr. Minister for not dealing with his way of being in politics, which is a very serious accusation (and, to date, we are still aware of the real reasons for the resignation of a member of his team), the truth is that, Mrs. Members in recent months have talked a lot about the Ministry of Education, but unfortunately, almost always for the worst reasons. therefore, at the end of this semester, governmental and non-lethal, it is necessary to make its assessment. Mr Minister, in this regard, we have seen the leader of FENPROF come to the public saying that he gave him a positive note. But you are not mistaken, Minister, because the educational community and the country itself give you a very negative note! [[PSD applause.]] however, Mr Minister, it is important to understand, as I said in your initial speech, what is the future, what is the way forward. It is important that we all know if we will continue to insist on this radical agenda, based on a saga of destruction, which, in half a dozen months, destroyed what has been built up for so many years, or if, on the other hand, we will help build a strong, modern, mobilising, inclusive education system for the challenges of the future and which strengthens the quality of education in Portugal. We are waiting for the answer, but the future is not favourable. We can verify it in the organization office of the next school year, that there is no hope of positive.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u131	Aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u132	Don't! And I'll tell you why. We are facing a document that seems to be a backstage and a missed opportunity. It's, in itself—it's over! — a huge attack on public school itself. You know why? Because it does not stimulate the improvement of schools, it is opaque and discretionary, it is bureaucratic, it does not improve or strengthen the role of leadership, it impoverishs the quality of teaching the artistic and physical-motor expressions of 1. the cycle and does not increase the possibility of unfolding classes. In short, another missed opportunity!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u133	You must be confusing what happened in the past!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u134	And unlike 2015, because we also like to talk about the past, there is no affirmation of the principles of pedagogical and organizational autonomy of schools. It is clear from the outset that the school directors themselves say — we are not saying it — that the new rules for allocation of hourly credits reduce the number of hours to support students. Once again, those who get hurt are the students. More: it is extinct, with this office, the incentive for the improvement that had been created. I will explain: there was an incentive for schools to have more hourly credits depending on the performance of their students, due to the decrease in failure, due to the decrease in the dropout rate. And these results disappear. For this government and for the parties that support it do not matter the results. Do you know why they don't care about the results? Maybe it's because they're used to turning defeats into victories! However, Mr Minister, it is also important to know what the Ministry's position is in other matters, such as, for example, the autonomy of schools or the decentralization of competences in education. The truth is, in this latter field, expectations, at least on the side of the autarchs, are very high, because it was the president himself (National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ), Manuel Machado, who announced that all compulsory education would be under the reach of municipalities from 2018 onwards and that funding would be ensured by a fund to be set up for education. Mr Minister, we would like to know for yourself what will be done and what background this is, if you are already thinking about some fund. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that we believe in the public service of education, where everyone takes place and where all are important, and assuming that the qualification of our population must be a fundamental pillar for the development and affirmation of Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u135	Mr Pedro Pimpão, the Bureau does not record requests for clarification. That is why Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u136	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The Socialist Party today, as always, is on the side of the freedom to teach and learn, is by education as an essential factor of freedom of concrete choice, for all and not just for some, and therefore in the beatings by public school. Without public school there is no freedom to teach and learn, without public school there is no freedom of choice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is the first reason for us to make the first few months of this Ministry of Education team a very positive and frankly encouraging balance, because by the action of this government and this parliamentary majority the public school is back. It is impossible, in a few minutes, to review everything that has already been done, but I wanted to leave some underscores and a challenge. The Integrated Model of External Assessment of Learning in Basic Education came to correct an abnormal situation that the National Council of Education ( National Council of Education ) described in the following terms: external summative evaluation, transformed into the art of classifying and serial, deepened the sanctioning character and penalizing the evaluation. Having been given an excessive centrality, it contaminated the internal evaluation, reducing its training capacity. The new model corrected this situation, once again making the external evaluation, with the measurement tests, a resource that empowers the internal evaluation, instead of harming it, opposing the curricular functioning and returning to the evaluation its true function to support the improvement of learning and educational success. Recently, the National Council of Education, stating that the new central issue of public investment in education is the imperative of everyone's school success, gave its explicit and formal support, voted unanimously, to the National School Success Promotion Programme, launched by the Government. Applications for the next two years are already open for educational communities, and they are the ones who are best aware of their difficulties and potentialities, design their own strategies that can improve the educational practices and learning of students. The Ministry of Education will in various ways support schools and teachers, whether with continuous training, whether with hourly credit, or with new resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The school organization office, recently published, shows a solid commitment to strengthening the pedagogical autonomy of schools and the collaborative work of teachers; facilitates the management of hourly credits according to pedagogical criteria; strengthens the role of the class director as a promoter of curriculum articulation, integration of students and training evaluation; gives new means for the tutorial support to students with a retention history; promotes closer and more timely follow-up of students at key crossroads of their course; accelerates the management of classes, broadening the possibilities of development; and strengthens the mission of the pedagogical council. It is also important to highlight the effort being made to give better answers to students with special educational needs, inducing more inclusion and decreasing segregation. The figures show the importance of this concern: in the current school year, of the total number of students with individual curricula or attending specialized support units, almost three quarters are less than 60% of their curricular time and 22% of these students are less than 20 % of their time in the class. These numbers also make them think and their evolution: from last school year to what is going on, this number doubled. Therefore, we hope that the work of the interministerial group that continues to prepare for the revision of Decree-Law No 3/2008 will arrive at hand. It is also necessary to mention several lines of action in development: the generalization of pre-school education from the age of three; the resumption of the bet on adult education;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u137	It's in the PSD program!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u138	... the moralization of association contracts, bringing them to respect by the Constitution, by the law and by the competitions that give rise to them;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the free school textbooks for the first year already in the next school year; the Participatory Budgets, which are citizenship tools; the new basic education certificate format, which values various student participation experiences; the ongoing curriculum review, which is in serene preparation and dialogue. The country has already understood that the government team in education has a new attitude: dialogue, but without tibiasity; firmness in the principles, but without distracting itself from the concrete application; rigor and, at the same time, appreciation of negotiation and encouragement to autonomy; respect and trust in teachers and schools, which is also a requirement of the great mission that the country has entrusted to these professionals. This new attitude of the Ministry of Education has enormous potential. It should enhance, beyond the natural and healthy political divergences, the construction of substantive convergences more durable than the horizon of education legislatures, where continuity and persistence are especially necessary for success. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party is available for this, to think and act on the perspective of an Agenda for the Decade. The challenge remains! And, basically, our starting platform is just the essential: it is full and genuine respect for the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u139	Mr Porfirio Silva, the Bureau has no requests for clarification. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa then has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u140	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: In an interview with the Express, on 11 June 2016, the Under-Secretary of State and Education said—and these are your words—to be slightly choleric but not lying. By putting faith in these statements, as well as in others regarding which I will refer to earlier, I would like to ask some questions about the future, and the first concerns the State Budget for 2017. The Under-Secretary of State stated to the public on 11 May — and I quote — the following: « Each new class has a cost of EUR 54 000 in the public system ». I admit that it is for the same level of quality that schools have with an association contract that this government intends to close. According to the CNE, there are about 70,000 classes in the system, from preschool to high school, including vocational and vocational education. This means an annual cost of EUR 3800 million. The State budget for operational education in 2016 is EUR 5500 million. So, and making simple accounts—more or less like the study that VV. Ex. presented to redefine the school network—there is room for savings of around EUR 1700 million, less than half what is needed to recapitalize the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u141	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u142	I can already imagine the satisfaction of Prof. Mário Centeno knowing this news, although I don't think I can say the same of Prof. Mário Nogueira! Open... [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Minister, can we take the reference value that you have given? And since the Secretary of State does not lie, then this is true and you will be able to spend less than EUR 1700 million on the next State budget which will present within four months, right? The second question I wanted to raise has to do with school textbooks. The Secretary of State also told the Diário de Noticias, this time on 18 May, that, with what she was going to save in association contracts, she could offer all the manuals of the 1. the cycle to all students, including private. So if there is a saving, if the free school textbooks are in the Government Programme and if you don't lie, nothing prevents them from fulfilling this promise. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Minister, you are therefore in a position to announce to the parents of students of 1. the cycle this offer? Are you going to do it? And since the Secretary of State does not lie, then this is true and will be able to give free manuals to all 1. The cycle, including privates, in three months, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u144	The third question I would like to raise has to do with counterpart proposals to colleges with association contracts. On 17 May the Secretary of State stated in the Observer — and I quote — that «a number of other partnerships are on the table at the level of artistic education, vocational education, the universalization of pre-school education and also at the level of other partnerships that may be the solution for the opening of cycles ». Not even discussing the reasonableness of proposing to a school that is reinvented from May to September, the seriousness that these counterparts contain is that the network of professionals is already closed for the next school year and that unfortunately payments to these schools, such as those of artistic education, have been delayed in the order of six months. As regards pre-school, the confidence that can be offered is that which is found in the CFP initiative, which calls for the three-year extension to be made without recourse to the contractualization of the private network or social solidarity. Mr Minister, is he therefore in a position to make the announcement made in January, at the beginning of his term of office, about the resolution of delays in payments to vocational schools and artistic education, for which he so criticized the previous government but that this year repeated? And, as the Secretary of State does not then lie about the extension of pre-school education, will the PS lead the initiative of the CFP?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u145	We already know that we have the support of the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u146	The Minister of Education considers that the academic year went well, at least so he evaluated it or, better, he decided on June 9 in the Group of Schools of Miguel Torga. We were therefore left to know that for the Minister the only problems that had occurred in previous school years were colleges with association contract, the PAAC (Knowledge Assessment Test and Capabilities) and the examinations of the 4. it's 6. years. With regard to everything else, this year, as in previous years, seems to have done well. Now that we have ceased to know, at national level and at the end of each cycle, as students learn and are taught in the face of curricula, since we have neither exams nor proof of measurement—and I remember that 5000 students from the base of 57% of schools enrolled in the measuring tests are missing, which is a very bad sign—now we do not know that in the classrooms are the teachers best prepared to teach, nor do we know who are those who need to be helped to a better performance, now that, in advance of a purely ideological agenda, educational projects of years were destroyed, with satisfied educational communities and proven results and lower costs for the state, now that fairness has been predicated because Mr. Minister prefers equality, now we can no longer deal with reality and, calmly, as Mr. It could be around here, but today the day when the country in which the Minister has lived reminds us that it is not always going well because of more serenity and tranquillity that he recommends to us, it seems to us a good and important time for the Minister to reflect on the impacts of a populism-oriented political action. It is, Mr Minister, that there will be no serenity. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u147	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the Bureau registered Mr Porfirio Silva's registration for clarification. Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u148	Madam President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, allow me to congratulate her, because, although we disagree with each other, it seems that she continues to be able to debate education without talking about certain trade union figures, without talking about communist governments that some people imagine, without talking about extremisms and radicalisms where they do not exist. I would therefore like to congratulate you, because indeed, even if you do not agree with many of the things you have said, at least speak of education, which is no longer bad. But I was a little surprised, Mrs. Anne Rita Bessa, because apparently she was sitting with a few things that were very worrying about her a little while ago. The honourable Member voted in favour of a request from the PSD in the Parliamentary Committee on Education, which said on the new integrated evaluation model that nothing was prepared. I repeat the phrase: nothing was prepared. By the way, everything was ready. I would like Mrs Ana Rita Bessa to tell us if she had had the opportunity to regret having voted against this so unfounded, unfair and so displaced phrase of reality proposed by her fellow crabs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another thing that the honourable Member said repeatedly, and she promoted, was that the government would not comply with the association contracts signed by the previous Government. Now that it has been seen that it was an excuse that the Court of Auditors would have disallowed the Government because the Court of Auditors itself had not said anything about it ; now that the Advisory Council of the Attorney General's Office of the Republic came, essentially, to give reason to the Government on this matter saying that there were no new classes of cycle start every year, as you said, and that the educational needs were also a factor to be taken into account in the evaluation of these contracts; now that the Attorney General of the Republic has given reason to the Government, I ask Mrs Ana Rita Bessa : continue to insist that the Government would not meet the contracts or finally recognise that it was just its interpretation and that it was wrong? [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are the questions, Mrs Deputies, because I see, by the focus of your concerns, that we have evolved something in these months. Many concerns that Mrs Deputies had stopped having, probably because she saw that this Minister knows where she is going. It goes towards a very well-defined path that interests Portuguese children, interests Portuguese young people, interests Portuguese people, interests the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u149	Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a new concern which is, of course, that I did not understand. in fact, if you have heard my speech, I have just said that nothing was actually ready. So much so that only 43% of schools have responded to the challenge of this national and mandatory test, the test of measurement, and that this evidence, however, is still lacking 5000 students. So I don't think everything's ready, or everything's working well. As for the Attorney-General of the Republic, I think it is a matter which is not of interest to you and I would rather not mention it because the statement quoted on the website of the Ministry of Education, as you know, is withdrawn uniquely and exclusively from the only vote won and does not reflect the full text voted and approved by the Attorney-General of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u151	I read it all!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u152	Therefore, I do not think that this is a good example, which, in fact, contradicts the truth of the prosecutor's report. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u153	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue with the speeches. Mrs. Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u154	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament: The Government has changed. It is a left-wing government of the Socialist Party. The policies of right-wing and devaluation of public school ceased. The public school has resumed its course and its essential goal of ensuring equal opportunities and democratisation of education throughout the territory. A school of all and for all, with autonomy, that corrects social asymmetries, which includes and does not include, punish or segregate. A school that combines demand and rigor quality, equity and efficiency, focused on access and success. Public school is back! This school year represented this breathing again in equality and freedom to teach and learn. A school year without early exams, without segregation, because the vocation in the basic, very precisely, ceased. A year in which the students' orality in Portuguese was first valued. Yes, sir. Members and Members of Parliament, 2800 schools took measurements: 175 000 students involved, without convulsions, with serenity, with quietness. Mr Minister, the central focus of this government's educational policy, XXI, is the quality of our students' learning, the innovation and modernization of pedagogical and teaching processes, which have to adapt to the 21st century, and the fight without hindrance to failure and the retentions which, on the right hand, have increased in the transition between all cycles. This Figure 1 says everything: with you it is always increasing retention in all cycles. Annually, 150 000 students lead. In Portugal 35 % of 15-year-old students have already rejected at least once when the European Union averages 13 %. Compulsory education up to 12. the year is a challenge to all social actors. Universal schooling, especially in a socially unequal country that has been severely impoverished by the right over the last four and a half years, is a constitutional and political imperative. It is time to invest in school success for everyone and with each. It is with this impetus that the National School Success Program and its mission structure emerges. A program based on a social commitment to the social function of the school, creating local dynamics of diagnosis and intervention. A program based on the promotion of practices that anticipate failure through early intervention, removing remediation strategies, and on the dynamization of a continuing training program, which requires regular evaluation of the same program. A programme that recognizes, dear Members and Members, that the foundations of the school building are in a first cycle of quality, which will be better achieved if it is preceded by a universal preschooler. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also one of the conclusions of the relevant opinion of the National Education Council of June 2016 on school organization and promotion of school success. It has therefore, in fact, been very good — the government and the education team with the goal of universalizing preschool to all three-year-olds by 2020. This process has its already defined contours and complements with the full-time school, now extended to 2. o is 3. the cycles, and with the strengthening of all mechanisms of social action school, that this year, well, in the State Budget were strengthened, as well as the appreciation of the class director and the tutorial support to students with retention history. The best articulation between the three cycles of basic education, attenuating the transition effects between cycles through integrated management and revision of basic education curricula, the reduction of the excessive disciplinary burden of students, will also be a relevant axis of school success. That's how we do it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, we know that a more intensive adult education policy can have very positive effects on promoting the success of students, particularly the most disadvantaged, as evidenced by the study by the Directorate-General for Education and Science Statistics of February 2016 on socio-economic inequalities and school results. We know that the qualification of the adult population, whether in the specific context of literacy and adult education, is an incentive for parents to better monitor their children in support of home work, thus enhancing their success. After the dismantling of the New Opportunities, it was four and a half years of forced landing and the teaching of adults was abandoned, breaking a cycle of convergence with the European average standard, which had been registered since 2007. Now, well, again under the aegis of the Socialist Party, a new and strong bet in this sector. The Qualifica Program and its integrated adult education and training strategy competes for this new breath, for this soul supplement that has long been expected, aiming to face the structural deficit of the qualifications of our population. Fathers, children and teachers together in school and in defense of education for all and for citizenship will be possible again! Can we aspire to that? Should we work for that? Yes, we can! Yes, we must! Because if you do, you are! If you don't, you'd be! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u155	Mr Susana Amador, Mr Duarte Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u156	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u157	Mr President, what was understood by the Bureau is that there would be a request for clarification by Mr Duarte Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u158	Correct, Madam President. I asked for the floor for an appeal to the Bureau to have a document circulated.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u159	All right, Mr. Deputies. You can then deliver this document to the Bureau, which we will have it distributed through the benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u160	Mr President, because Mr Porfirio Silva, referring to a PSD requirement, said that the PSD would have made a completely wrong statement, wanted to have a document from a school, which refers to the following document, informing education officials:... [[PS and BE protests.]] ... (...) by failing to carry out the measurement tests in the current school year, by virtue of...'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u161	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u162	I will finish, Madam President. As it stated, «... as a result of (... ) there is insufficient time between publication of the legislation in reference and the dates of completion of the evidence(... ). [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u163	Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u164	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u165	I wonder whether Mr Duarte Marques' request for clarification remains.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u166	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u167	All right. We are then waiting for the delivery of the distribution document. Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u168	Mr President, since you do not let Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria speak, it is very simple: the Minister said there had been stability to prepare the evidence, but there is a school that tells the parents that he will not do the tests because he did not have time. That's all I had to say. This is the complete proof that there was no stability, not even time to prepare the evidence [[PCP protests.]] But I have a request for clarification to the Socialist Party's Member, if I may continue, which is very simple. The Socialist Party and all the left in this House spent the debate always remembering the impoverishment, the dismissal of teachers, the dismissal of workers... everything was a problem. And it's true! That was a problem. They never speak to teachers who have been linked to state paintings. But there is one thing I do not realize: either the blame is on the right, the guilt is on the Memorandum, and they agree with us, or then agree with the Prime Minister, with your Prime Minister, who comes to say that there is, after all, a demographic problem in the country and that there will be many teachers without work. You either agree with the previous government or agree with your Prime Minister. Or, then, they confess that they are completely wrong in the thesis that they present for the country. Is there a demographic problem or is there no one, Mrs. Member of the Socialist Party? Madam Member, this new dream that brings to the country, these new measures that it announces, many of them are international rules, but I wonder...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u169	You're going to have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u170	I conclude, Madam President. I ask, Mrs Deputy, how does it explain that this government, which so much investment was announcing, has already frozen the works in the largest schools in the country. Even at the National Conservatory the works, which were to begin this year, were postponed another year. How do you explain this lack of investment in parents, teachers, public school?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u171	Mr President, the question is raised. Mrs. Susana Amador, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u172	Mr President, Mr Duarte Marques, I begin by thanking the request for clarification. Mr President, obviously with regard to public school in these four and a half years and in successive State budgets, there was a cut of EUR 1400 million and the Troika Memorandum required less than 50 % of that value. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u173	The debt was hidden!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u174	It was not the Memorandum of Troika, it was a clear ideological option of the PSD and CDS to devalue the public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u175	He went to the clean exit!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u176	The debt was higher. She was hidden!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u177	How do you explain, Mr President, that you have always gone beyond the troika?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u178	To save us from bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u179	In fact, then Mr. Prime Minister said that several times. Regarding health, regarding education, he always said: « We go beyond the troika, we want to go beyond the troika».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u180	Now you guys go beyond FRENPROF!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u181	And the results were actually seen: 2, 8 million poor,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u182	It's the clean exit!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u183	... 450 000 children and young people excluding and 30% of children from our schools in child poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth is that the consequences of this court were, in fact, exponential for Portugal, for Portuguese, for children and young people who suffered the most. [[PSD Deputies Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] It was an option on the right this dismantling and, at the same time as emptying public school, there were no cuts to the private sector...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u184	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u185	... and failed to comply with the Memorandum of Troika with regard to association contracts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u186	But do we or do we not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u187	They didn't do it there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u188	It's reading! It's reading!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u189	the association contracts did not comply. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u190	It's reading!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u191	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block arrived here with a spirit of goodwill for this debate in the hope that on this side it would also come a constructive spirit in relation to this year's balance sheet, so that from it we could draw conclusions to improve next year. After all, what we have found was, in short, three questions: to return to the debate, closed, of association contracts; to exercise hypocrisy over late payments to artistic education; and to repeat in the idea of chaos, which no one can see, that no one can see and, in practice, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen can't show. They said it was gonna happen, it didn't happen and today they came here to say what? « Hope we still have hope that it will happen later». No one sees! It doesn't exist! The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are gripped by the past. The balance sheet is simple: despite all warnings and bad agurations, the school year has gone well, it is recommended, and what we want is that it continues to run well for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we want is a coherence, a consensus on the importance of public school, and this will bring us peace of mind. The PSD here accuses us of backwardness and I wanted to talk about it, because I think the argument becomes surreal. It is that, when the path is the past, when the path is to walk back, then the backwardness is to move forward, the backwardness is to advance. When it is moving forward, until the 1960s, which was what the previous government was doing in relation to the examination of 4. the class...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u193	Must be more 1974 / 75!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u194	... or in relation to the social segregation that the school promoted, when going to march-back, walking forward is a retreat. Well, we're proud of that backwardness. This backwardness is the progress of society. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The PSD problem and the problem on the right I say what it is: is that modern school has been modern for 50 years and you haven't been used to the name yet. The problem of a conservative will always be with progress and, therefore, the best will always be the backwardness. And with regard to this paradox, there is nothing to do! But we have challenges. Today, we are already able to give public school to all, good education to all. Our challenge is to be able to give each one the education he needs. The great challenge of 21st century education is the pedagogical differentiation — the pedagogical differentiation not as punishment, but as a response to the needs of each one. And, for the pedagogical differentiation, I would like to ask three questions which I think should be worthy of consensus from all parties: one — I am sure it deserves — has to do with the special educational needs, with the so-called 'grandchildren', those who have CEI (specific individual curriculum) and who are standardized, whose school course is closed due to a wrong educational differentiation and which is seen as punishment. But we also have the question of vocations that use pedagogical differentiation as punishment, because instead of doing curriculum enrichment for those who need it most, what they did was amplify the curriculum to withdraw skills, to withdraw learning, to withdraw resources to those who need it most. Three years ago, a study by the University of Coimbra told us that tutoring is a good response for students with learning difficulties. Tutorials solve problems of absenteeism, solve problems of school success. What did the previous government do? Ignored! What was the choice? Create vocations for early segregation of the school course, creating school ghettos. All of this are challenges of 21st century education, to which we will have to respond. But there is also much to do outside the area of curricula and vocations and IECs. We have a challenge with regard to the teaching class. We have a very precarious teaching class, we have an aged teaching class, we have a teaching class that needs to be valued, to feel valued so that this is also reflected in the quality of education, which needs training, stability and more bond. Finally, and I would like to mention this urgency, we need more democracy in schools, because public school is also a school of freedom, and a school of freedom has no owner, a school of freedom is a school where democracy is practiced and therefore we need to resume exercises of democracy in public school and make challenges. For example, in Finland, what was done in the new curriculum reform was to listen to the students.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u195	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u196	Can we hear students about curriculum reform? Let's hear what they have to say? Everyone says that students are the center of the education system, we are concerned about them — and I finish, Madam President — so let's hear them about what they want for school. Finally,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u197	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u198	... we can make many rounds, and we will make sure and improve many things, but there is one of which one cannot escape: the country trusts in public school despite everything that has happened, the country is demanding with the public school, we must respond to this requirement and the only way to do it is with more investment, it is to invest in public school. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u199	Mr Diogo León has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u200	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The balance sheet at the end of this school year is positive, but I prefer to put my eyes on the future, because for many families, education officers and students the next school year's balance sheet will be more positive, since education costs will be reduced with the distribution of free school textbooks to students in 1. the year of 1. the cycle. This measure throws the first stone on the way to free school textbooks in compulsory education and clearly marks an ideological line where the current parliamentary majority differs from the opposition, since the PSD and the CDS refrained from sharing this decision at the time of their vote in Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The next year will be even more positive, because, as a result of the Council of Ministers on Student Day, the school diploma of each student will begin to recognize and value the activities that it practices, assumes and promotes within the school, in student associations, in civic, artistic, cultural, sports, exchange or volunteering activities. This step, so relevant, is probably one of the oldest claims of those who value non-formal education, the one that is not necessarily learned within the classroom but who, in the context of freedom and social dynamics, teaches us much of the knowledge useful to life, which definitely influences the discovery of our convictions and vocations. It will definitely be more positive because next year the students of the 3. the cycle and secondary education will have a participatory school budget, in which they will decide how to use part of their school budget. This initiative only means empowering students, giving them the power to propose and develop concrete projects and ideas, which correspond to the needs or gaps of their educational project, perhaps to innovations that we do not see for now, precisely because of the genius of our young people new, original ideas arise. in its last opinion, the National Education Council recommended, and I quote, « (...) that students be heard, that they are so forgotten, and listen carefully to how much they have to say and suggest, in freedom(...) ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, listen to students, accept their suggestions, remove material obstacles to their teaching frequency, value their free choices and their collective projects, involve them in the decisions of their school context and also in the major debates of education is precisely what the Government of the Republic intends to do. The PS Parliamentary Group welcomes this, and today's students, full citizens of tomorrow, will also know, one day, to recognize the government that has dared to give them more ears so that they can also have a civicly stronger voice in the transformation of our society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u201	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, I would not start here, but I take advantage of it to say that the document you distributed does not show time to prepare the measurement tests, which proves that schools have an absurd dimension and that the size of the grouping and the dispersion of the establishments did not allow enough time. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u203	You don't know anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u204	That is why it should rethink the policy of mega groupings and not the balance sheet of the academic year. [[PCP, BE, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] Mrs. Members, the PSD tried to disguise the real reason it brought here today, which was to bring back the topic of association contracts, but did not disguise it so well and ended up making this the big issue of this debate and the mistification around ideologies. Mrs. Members of the PSD and CDS, imposing exams at the end of each cycle, making different students, with different educational paths, be subject to exactly the same test in the same period of time is not ideology, it is pragmatism.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u205	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u206	You already think that students should have a continuous assessment appropriate to their school course and to their socio-economic context that, yes, is ideological fanaticism. Create a professional route soon 5. the year of education is not ideology, it is pragmatism. Understanding that young people should have a unified teaching and as diverse as possible for as long as possible is ideological fanaticism. Giving money to private is pragmatism. Making businesses survive at the expense of the state, when they do not have conditions of competition in the education business, it is pragmatism. You already think that the state should apply its resources in public school is ideological fanaticism. [[Congrats from PS MP João Galamba.]] Concentrate teaching in Portuguese and mathematics as this new doctrine, old doctrine, is not ideology, it is pragmatism. To think that the school should prepare students for all dimensions of life, including arts, science, that, yes, is ideological fanaticism. Mr President, the PSD and CDS are being deceived and deceived by making such a distinction, because it is all ideology. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] The big difference is that your ideology, PSD and CDS, is that of using the school as an instrument to reproduce and accentuate asymmetries, to aggravate exploitation,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...to allow the children of the workers to never cease to be exploited and so that the children of the rich today may be those who come to exploit the future workers,... [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] ... while the other ideology, which they declare as fanatic, is that of the school as an instrument for the formation of the individual's integral culture, the one that allows to fight asymmetries and emancipate each human being through education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u207	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u208	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not all done, of course, quite the contrary, but if there is a note that marks this academic year—of which the PSD wanted to make the balance with this interpellation, and we welcome this initiative—it is neither instability, nor backwardness; on the contrary, it is that of hope and that of the inversion of a set of policies that have been degrading, weakening, corroding the capacity of the public school. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] This inversion is shy, but it points to a path. The freeness of school textbooks 1. the cycle of basic education points to the extension of this spirit of democratization of public school that, including, was proposed by the PCP and has the support of the PS. We need to go further. Democracy is needed in school management, the teaching profession needs to be valued and nationally ordered competitions, more material and human resources are needed and more funding is needed, the organization needs to be rethinked in groups, a free and inclusive public school policy is needed, continuous evaluation is needed, among many other steps. But the PCP is on the side of these steps that you need to take and want to close the door to the squat that comes behind. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u209	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers for interventions. Before we go to the closing period, I ask Mr. Secretary, Duarte Pacheco, to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, information that entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 269 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Alter the composition of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ( NAP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 270 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishs the National Animal Experimental Council ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; draft resolutions Nos 386 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to monitor and support cherry producers to compensate them for the damage caused by the particular distress of the climatic conditions of the last few months ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 387 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Public outreach campaign for the solidarity complement for the elderly ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 388 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reduce the number of pupils per class in Portuguese foreign education courses ( EPE) ( BE), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 389 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government evaluate current oil exploration, research, development and production contracts in the Alentejan Algarve and Costa Alentejana and adopt monitoring mechanisms ( PS ), which fall to 6. the Commission. Finally, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, Parliamentary inquiry No 4 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Possible Parliamentary Investigation Board for the recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the management of the bank ( PSD and CDS-PP ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u211	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now enter into the closure of this appeal to the Government. Mr Marco António Costa, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u212	Mr President, I was just trying to help the work, because the government bench was signaling that Mr. Minister had gone away momentarily. I believe that you have to wait for Mr Minister's return so that he can make his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u213	Thank you, Mr. Deputies. We will then wait for the Minister to take his place. [[Pause.]] We are already in a position to continue and, therefore, Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro has the floor for the closing intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u214	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: At the end of this school year it is already clear that in education, turning the page is no more than a backward one. By the way, VV. Ex., in good rigor, they never said in what sense they were going to scour the page. It's true.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u215	Now we're going to hear what's missing for state reform!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u216	It's going to be spectacular!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u217	It is clear that there is enormous dissonance between what they have promised, what they have announced and what they really do. As the people say: it is not enough to look, it must be. The new time is no more than just a political communication strategy. What they once accused of being an ideological option of de-investment, today they justify with a soft « cannot perform miracles ». What was previously uninvestment for you today is, allegedly, savings. Your new time is not to say so. Your new time is the one in which we watch the Socialist Party attracting its socio-educational history in the name of political survival. What your new time in education brings is a backwardness as much as it has been achieved by the Portuguese. Taking away your round rhetoric of prepotent opposition to the choice of families and to the autonomy of schools, what remains is the void of content, a lack of consistent direction and a concept of dialogue that sneezes what is established with a union structure. But, Minister, Mr. Members, attention: education partners are more than a mere communist trade unionist! It is families, institutions of solidarity, cooperatives, associations, companies, directors, schools, advisory bodies, municipalities. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] One cannot be more important than the others, especially when all others have contributed much more to the success of public education in Portugal. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When you were alerted a few years ago to the serious demographic problem that our country faces and that is so visible in our young student population, VV. They cried out: “That’s a lie! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” When, without false demagogy, the former Government guaranteed greater stability to the teaching body through a binding policy, VV. Ex. they cried out: « 1000 per year is a misery! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Today, for you, 100 per year is more than enough. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u218	All right! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u219	When initial and continuing teacher training was improved, establishing stricter conditions for access to teacher training courses, strengthening the scientific components in the subjects to be taught and establishing a new legal regime for continuing teacher training, VV. They said we were going to uninvest. When more non-teaching staff were invested and linked, when efforts were made to reduce the use of employment/inclusion contracts and employees were placed early in schools, VV. For example, to vary, they protested. Today, apparently, the use of this mechanism, for you, is already great, is already a marvel.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u220	You guys? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u221	When advanced in the pedagogical autonomy of schools, when it was affixed in the advantages of schools to develop projects adjusted to students, in early intervention, in the advantages of coadjuvation, in predicting the educational component of support to the study; when bureaucratic burden was removed to teachers and more freedom was given to teach... [[Rice from PCP MEP Rita Rat.]] ... when equity and merit were improved and time credits increased to schools, VV. They complained because they weren't fighting failure. When the guidance network increased, the psychology services, the Inclusion Resource Centres and the links of teachers to special education were strengthened, VV. Ex.as said: « They do not promote inclusion». When, due to the breakdowns and parties of some, the rate of requalification of the school park had to be slowed, imposing restraint on costs and reducing the income paid by schools to the School Park, VV. Ex. They got in shock. Now, conformed, they find it reasonable that there was no intervention in schools by DGE ( Directorate-General for School Establishments ). When a strategy was established that was affixed to gradualism and when, strictly speaking, we made the teaching system more flexible, more equitable, more autonomous and more coordinated with the requirements of the market, more ambitious for higher education, more transparent, with more freedom of choice for families, VV. Ex.as said we dismantled education and training in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: What the data prove is the opposite of what was claimed by VV. Ex. We see the improvement in international education indicators and the improvement of the qualification profile of the Portuguese population. What the current ministerial team is really doing in education, despite the easy and round rhetoric, is going back all over the line: in autonomy; in transparency, in rigor, in confidence. It's going back to the one-way return which has been so bad in the past. It is to go back to the « roll law ». [[Protests of PS and BE Members.]] Madam President, this is the time of opacity, centralism, authoritarianism, giving in to a trade union agenda that distrusts families, directors, schools, institutions, companies and society. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are facing a Stalinization of education in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u222	You're an ignorant one!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u223	I repeat, if you have not heard well, we are faced with a Stalinization of teaching in Portugal. [[PCP protests.]] Madam President, if you will allow me, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen have a bad time with criticism.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u224	I'm asking the ladies. Members who create the conditions for Mr Cristóvão Ribeiro to continue to use the floor. [[PCP protests.]] I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. You may proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u225	Thank you, Madam President. That the ladies. Members and some interests in this country live in bad company with criticism, the PSD Parliamentary Group and society already knew, but that they have the potential to insult a Member in the use of the word in this House, frankly, I would never expect it to be possible. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u226	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u227	Ladies and gentlemen. Members and, in particular, Minister for Education, the Minister may be here to be applauded by the left that currently supports this government, but will not be applauded in the future. The price that young Portuguese people will have to pay for the arrogance, the blackout and the pre-power of their government will, unfortunately, be too high. Madam President, I conclude by saying that today we made a review of the academic year. It was a school year that began well but unfortunately ends badly by the action of this government, who had the opportunity to catch up but did not do so for being subject and subject, by condition, the country's future to a retrograde, fanatical ideological vision and that conditions and mortgages the future of young Portuguese people. [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] Everything in the name of the political survival of a Prime Minister that the people did not want and did not choose. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u228	Nice number! He just missed the ball on his nose!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u229	For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On a day that calls us to think of the United Kingdom and the old Europe, I use Shakespeare's immensity... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u231	... here to reverse and adapt: not everything goes well in the realm of education. There is still much to be done for this kingdom of the public, which, instead of the monarchs and processions, responds to citizens engaged in republican education, if they present themselves enough in our eyes and in the eyes of those whom we serve. But it goes better than it was; not yet fulfilling all our ambition, but going better. Otherwise, let us see: we do not yet correct everything that matters to correct, but we correct everything that could be corrected. We corrected the laxist interpretation of the association contracts concluded by the PSD/CDS-PP government and what was harmful to this laxism meant for Portuguese taxes and for public school. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] We also did not correct everything that had to be corrected in the financing of vocational education. It is not possible to update, in seven months, a four-year procedural and financial chaos, but in the same seven months it was possible to pay approximately 3⁄4 of the expenditure submitted by private and public entities. After our discussion this morning, I leave a word of solidarity with the schools that are still experiencing difficulties, some that we have already resolved and others that we are solving. The one who lied was the one who left everything prepared for chaos in the financing of professional and artistic education to settle and endure... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Pimão.]] ... and now, cynically, comes to confuse amounts with numbers of schools and thus favor the continuation of a chaos and an uneasiness that we will not allow, because professional schools do not deserve to pay this price. By speaking as a professional and by correcting what matters already being corrected, none of us on this team, as well as most who support us, would be at peace with the conscience if it did not eliminate an early segregation system that contradicts what we have always said to our children: that they are all born equal in dignity and rights and all have the same opportunities for success. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The country deserves and needs not to leave any of its outside. Education cannot therefore amplify the fate of citizens and the country just because it is easier to exclude those who give us more work. We are also here to face all that demands the most work and it is because we are all needed. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Shakespeare has pieces, all magnificent, all eminently modern, all of them in some premonitional way and all of them with titles, let's say, happy. One of them translates into Portuguese for Much noise for nothing and does not cease to arise in my spirit whenever, and have already been, they ask me in this House about the subject of assessments in the basics. Now, as we always said that it would happen, everything happened as it was good if it were to happen: with demand, professionalism, quality and tranquility. To the accusations of experimentalism, reality answered for us: the most absolute normality was found. To the accusations of radicalism, reality has answered for us: this makes sense because it has always made sense. To the accusations of precipitation, reality has answered for us: the evidence has been carried out in time and the individual file will be returned in due course to students, families, schools. And to the accusations of authoritarianism the reality has also answered for us— given the flexibility of choice this year, most school directors have chosen to do the test—or, better, the students have responded for us and 96% of those who could do such proof, that some were sure not to count for anything, found that, after all, they counted and went to do it to their school, their classroom, with their colleagues. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing like those for whom we work to tell us what makes sense to them. We know well what needs to be improved and what lacks our collective effort as a country. And there's so much to do and it deserves to be done. I can't tell you about everything here now, but fortunately we'll have time, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there are fortunately several places that will still illuminate us. I am speaking to you here and now about the success of school as a response to the intolerable levels of retention that Portugal presents and that triple the OECD average, in whose indicators we have evolved both in recent decades but not in this key indicator. This will perhaps be the most important fight we face in this legislature: overcome, by the success of teaching with inclusion, the failure of plumbar for punishment. Do it because it should be, but also because it has to be. Do it because everyone deserves success but also, as all independent studies do not tire of alerting, because it is more efficient. Reprobate a student, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the most costly indicator for the education system and the one whose effect is the most costly for the same system; it is the most expensive and the most damaging to the system, as well as and in an important way, our students. in the opposite exact, to accompany a student with tutorials that teach him to learn is the indicator that has the lowest cost and the best effect, optimizing in eight months his learning speed. Eloquent is the value of success in the face of failure, Mrs and Mrs. Members, ethical value but also economic, educational imperative but also citizens. Year after year here we will come to make this balance sheet for the academic year but also for the legislative year. We will also return to this Parliament within 15 days and it will be a privilege again. Good rest and even better work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-24.u232	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, that concludes this request to the Government proposed by the PSD. We will resume our work next Wednesday, June 29, for the 15 hours, with the appreciation of Bill No. 94 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Eliminates the obligation to present the unemployed for the fortnight ( amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2006, 3 November ) ( BE ). At the end of the session there may be a vote on this initiative, depending on whether or not the Left Block wishes to exercise this prerogative. I wish the Socialist Party a good parliamentary journey. Our work is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 25 minutes.]]
