ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Officers of the authority who open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I give the floor to Mrs Emília Santos to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. the following legislative initiatives were admitted: projects of lein.o 124 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Data Sharing Legal Scheme ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission ; and draft resolutions 131 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the participation by step A of the creams and compressive clothing for people burned when properly prescribed by the assistant physician or the dermatology or aesthetic surgery ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 132 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — by the immediate suspension of the processes for the granting, exploitation and extraction of oil and gas in the Algarve ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 133 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prohibit the exploitation and extraction of shale gases and oils ( BE ), which fall to 6. the Commission, 134 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the reintroduction of the control of indoor air quality with the corresponding research of the presence of legionella colonies, as provided for in Decree-Law No 79 / 2006 of 4 April ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 135 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the new Law Box Regulation and its subsequent revocation, re-resisting the previous system ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 136 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to resolve the environmental liabilities of the former mines of São Pedro da Cova, Gondomar, and identify each of the actors involved in the decision-making and control chain in the deposition of toxic waste with a view to the clearance of financial and criminal responsibilities, as well as to ensure that amounts unduly paid ( CDS-PP ) are paid, and 137 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the High School in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra Town Hall, Setúbal District ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to get on the agenda, and the first point is the joint discussion of draft resolutions 73 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Towards the creation of a set of national and Community financial support, tax incentives and social security incentives for foreign producers ( PSD ), 118 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government dynamize the measures necessary for the promotion and valorisation of others ( PS ), 120 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defend and promote the production of others ( CFP ) and 127 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the protection and promotion of others as ex-books of transmontane gastronomy ( BE ). To present the PSD draft resolution, Mr. José Silvano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft resolution aims to deal with an extraordinary situation that took place in September 2015 and that has severely affected foreign producers. And for extraordinary situations, extraordinary solutions must be found.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u6	If there were doubts about the importance of these measures and their necessity, it was sufficient to verify the subsequent presentation of the draft resolutions on the same subject by the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, and it can thus be said that there is a problem that requires an urgent solution and that is recognized by all.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u8	in a single very episode, which the public services responsible for food safety and quality and also for public health promptly circumscribed, the others were questioned with the general consumer. With alarmist and unexplained news, suspicion was created with the consumer, which withdrew consumption. The effects of this disproportionate and undesired media alarmism were not expected: sales dropped peaks in the following months, production decreased in some cases by 80 %, and much accumulated production was destroyed for reasons of scrupulously safety. They doubted modernising investments that contributed to the increase in diversification of production. from the point of view of employment, many permanent jobs were involved, in addition to hundreds of seasonal jobs. It should be remembered that for foreign production there are about two hundred companies scattered throughout the transmountain region which generate more than 1000 direct jobs and an even larger number of indirect jobs and that the annual gross value of this production represents more than EUR 100 million in the region, and only in the municipality of Mirandela reaches more than 30 million. Fortunately, thanks to the work done by the authorities, the associations of the sector and the producers — which today are only not represented here because of a reason for force majeure, which led to the cancellation of the tasting that was scheduled for this afternoon, and so I apologize for this cancellation — the situation is slowly changing and the consumer's confidence is slowly returning.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u10	This is, however, a trend that needs to be reinforced and reinvigorated. Transmountans only ask for something when they really need it or when they consider it an act of justice. The PSD Parliamentary Group therefore recommends that the Government : a credit line of EUR 30 million should be established to be made available during the years 2016 and 2017, with a view to responding to company treasury difficulties, supporting the implementation of ongoing investments and maintaining jobs ; that during the years 2016 and 2017 the VAT of these products be reduced to 6 % ; that during the years 2016 and 2017, the single social rate should be reduced to 20, 75 % in all jobs maintained and to be created ; that a « dedicated notice » should be opened within the framework of Portugal 2020 for communication campaigns aimed at restoring consumer confidence, training of the business fabric at the level of marketing and internationalisation ; that it should be increased by 20 % of the expansion, rehabilitation and modernisation investments already applied for and applying for Portugal 2020. I finish as I began: for extraordinary situations, extraordinary solutions. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u11	To present the PS draft resolution, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the first instance, this is a subject that tells the Bragança district a lot, I inform you that Mrs Júlia Rodrigues, on account of an accident, cannot be present today and so I will be doing the intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group. Gastronomy is central as a point of promotion of tourism and an important national brand was not tourism representing around 50 % of exports of services. And the Socialist Party does not forget the defense of gastronomy as a central point for tourism. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group defends and will defend traditional products, as is the case with the traditional product of others, which is being discussed here, and therefore decided to present a draft resolution on this matter. Other products are well-known and highly appreciated, with a quality certificate and a great tourist demand, particularly in the cross-border municipalities of Mirandela. However, as many know, a crisis of confidence has shaken the consumption of this product. An isolated problem, whose brand, above all, used in a way, perhaps abusive, the name of a region, called into question consumer confidence. It is important that we regain this trust and can count on the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to defend this resumption. The defence of the local economy and jobs are essential. However, we cannot fail to record, including the opportunity for the draft resolution submitted by the PSD, the demagogy of some of its proposals, which present some technical errors, in particular the possibility of going to Community funds only on that issue. It is the same PSD and CDS that increased the VAT of the restaurant that now offers for the outside a very low VAT. It's not possible, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! Nor does it cease to be curious that the former Government has destroyed a lot of local economies by not starting with Portugal 2020. Portugal 2020 did not start while the PSD was in the government. It didn't start! It was practically zero execution! And now it is several million euros just for this product, forgetting that there are negotiated contracts at European level and a partnership agreement. However, the Socialist Party joins in this struggle. It will, of course, defend these producers and this industry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u13	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u14	The Socialist Party, by establishing a Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior, through its Government, defends the interior, particularly the transboundary interior. Producers can count on the Socialist Party in the intransigent defense of the quality of their products and their promotion and can continue to count on us to defend the national production of this product, like all other products. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u15	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u16	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Before addressing the initiatives under discussion, I wish, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, to express our regret at the death of a leader of the Mirandela Trade and Industrial Association, whose presence was foreseen here and which unfortunately does not occur. Secondly, we want to welcome at this difficult time all producers of foreign and other regional products, particularly in the Bragança district, who face serious difficulties and continue to contribute to regional and national development. Mr. President and Mr. Members, the PCP does not share the idyllic vision presented in the PSD resolution project. For PSD everything was a pink world until there was news about a botulism case that put everything at stake. We do not ignore that the case of botulism has created difficulties—in fact, we have addressed this same problem in our draft resolution—but we do not ignore that many of the difficulties created by producers have resulted from the political options of the PSD and the CDS. The PSD and CDS insisted on introducing tolls. The PSD and CDS-PP eliminated the IRS-based bonuses for the companies installed inside.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u18	The PSD and CDS closed hundreds and hundreds of public services, thus contributing to the desertification and depopulation of the region. Mr. President and Mr. Members, we PCP, do not forget that it was the PSD and the CDS-PP that, despite successive PCP alerts, increased VAT from 13 % to 23 %, causing serious difficulties and damage to producers. Thus, PSD and CDS are responsible for the serious situation that producers are experiencing today and it is important to report that, while they were in government, they did not remember to comply with any of the resolutions or recommendations they now propose. As much as they try to clear the memory of the transmontanes, we will not fail to denounce and remember all the responsibilities that PSD and CDS-PP had in the deepening of our country. of the proposals submitted by the PSD, there is one that deserves our critical front: the reduction of the single social rate for foreign producers. Once again, PSD uses social security money, workers' money, to correct or mitigate the crap they did. This is not, nor can it be, our way. Mr. President and Mr. Members, the CFP, in line with what it has done in the past, proposes in the draft resolution under discussion today that the Government take a set of measures to address the problems of the Trás-os-Montes foreign producers. That is to say, it proposes measures: a reduction of VAT to 13 % for all fillings, as is the case with other processed meats; access to credit and support for a communication and advertising campaign to restore consumer confidence; in the context of the application of Community funds, support for the installation and modernisation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, as well as in the remaining regions of the country. Finally, urgent action must be taken — and this is a recommendation that we make — to have the public authorities that regulate trademarks of protected geographical origin analyse the case and take measures that prevent contamination in an isolated case for the other producers. With this draft resolution, the CFP presents a set of measures that allow us to value and grow this important branch of activity that assumes a very significant economic and social dimension in Trás-os-Montes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u19	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Traditional agri-food products, usually made on a small scale, in family production units, are carriers of symbolic and affective content, associated with rurality, nature, land and a desire for belonging to a region. And they are often also products of prestige and national pride. A traditional agri-food product is more than a simple food. The symbols and values that these products carry are, in themselves, a wealth with incomparable characteristics. On the other hand, it is good to highlight the importance of family production as a creator and distributor of a wide variety of regional products. Like products, this type of production should also be protected and encouraged by public policies. Historically, small producers have always had few alternatives to the marketing of their production, often being obliged to produce what uniformist models required them. The certification and production of traditional, production or packaging products in small family units are one of the solutions to this old problem. Portugal has an immense diversity of traditional products, which constitute a valuable heritage that emerged from the genius of the people of each Portuguese region, linked to the specificities and characteristics of each of the places of origin and which give them a unique and genuine identity. Of these traditional products, foreign is, for a long time, considered as an ex-book of the transmountain and national region. This product, typically Portuguese, results from the discovery of traditional centuries-old practices, passed from generation to generation, which it is important to preserve. to its gastronomic value are also associated experiences and memories of transmountan communities in marked social and cultural dimensions. Of course, the uniqueness and high quality of the product, ended up making it a tourist attraction to the region, making the economic dimension of its production grow. With the passing of time, there have been changes in methods and, nowadays, it is produced in modern industrial units paired with traditional farms. The tourist dimension of foreign production and consumption only accentuates its relevant economic dimension, this row for the transmountain region and the country. It represents a high turnover today, ensuring several hundred jobs and the incomes of many families. The emergence of some health problems, episodes, quickly overcome and an extremely limited number of production units caused temporary alarm and market withdrawal. in this context, it is important to highlight the generalized quality of the others and also emphasize the need to highlight this row as an expression of the enormous gastronomy wealth portuguese and as a relevant sector of economic activity. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, with a view to protecting and developing this product, it is necessary for public and private authorities to adopt measures that are deemed necessary to ensure permanent quality standards in production. In addition, it is also necessary to continue the market clarification work on the total guarantees offered by others and to develop together the tourist operators a work in their promotion as a valuable gastronomic ex-book of the Trás-os-Montes region. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u21	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the producers of foreign and all traditional products, congratulating them for their resilience and innovation capacity they have shown over the years, and also for regretting the reasons why producers cannot be here today. Four months ago, a timely episode led to a huge shrinking of the consumption of traditional fillers in the transmountain region, with serious consequences in the economy of the sector. It was thanks to the early performance of the administration that public opinion was reassured and today the sector is recovering and normalizing, as the agents themselves recognize and so stated last weekend at Mirandela Aliena Fair. The recognition of Mirandela as a geographical indication protected by the European Union at the beginning of this year will certainly be another important step in affirming not only this product but also the entire traditional Portuguese smoking industry. This and other traditional products represent a huge potential for economic development in the country and for the dynamization of the whole rural world and constitute an aggregate element of the interests of the various sectors around the national agri-food line, from production to restoration, from trade to tourism, from education to culture. The former PSD/CDS government made clear the wager it made in the agri-food sector, as an engine for economic growth, contrary to what has been stated by the PS today. And in that bet he did, he did not forget, or minimized, traditional products. It was the former Government, Mr President and Mr. Members, who have created a set of legislative simplification measures that have made life easier for small producers and which favour local production and sales on local circuits.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u23	If you do to others what you did to pensions, we're well-traped!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u24	contrary to what the left parties like to make happen and what is still here yesterday was once again mentioned by Mr. João Paulo Correia of the PS, the CDS is not part of the farmers only when he is in opposition. The CDS is the party that defends the national economy and the rural world. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u25	The CDS is the party that defends farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises. The CDS is the party that defends who creates jobs and who contributes to the occupation of the territory. The CDS is the party that seeks to solve concrete problems of real people. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] That is why, Mr. President and Mr. Members, all initiatives, whether public or private, which contribute to affirming the role of traditional products in the national economy, for the dynamisation of rural territories and the promotion of employment will be welcomed by this bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u26	All right! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u27	I see that divergences also go through the plenary on foreigners. [[Laughing.]] Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we have four legislative initiatives, four draft resolutions with a common objective: to create mechanisms for promoting, supporting, valuing and defending the production of others. And in this discussion, the Greens begin by saying that others, due to their quality and their contribution to high cooking, have turned into a reference to the level of our gastronomy. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u29	A product initially highly appreciated in the region of Trás-os-Montes, but which, given its quality, quickly flooded the homes and tables throughout the country, being appreciated today on all continents. The production of smoke and, above all, of others, represents an important activity in the local economies of the whole region of Trás-os-Montes, both with regard to industrial production and craft production, because, in fact, despite the various forms of packaging and conservation that the others have been familiar with over time, their artisanal production continues to have some vigor and to have great importance for the self-consumption of many families, thus reaffirming their cultural and gastronomic identity. On the other hand, the development of industrial production in nothing has undermined its original taste, not only because in its manufacture traditional knowledge is repeated, but also because regional products are used for its manufacture. That is, over the centuries if something has changed, it was only the motivation of its packaging. If, originally, the packaging of the others was associated with a way of avoiding persecution, currently the others is made up of being a product with a unique taste appreciated throughout the world. Today, this activity involves thousands of direct and indirect jobs in the Tres-os-Montes region. There are about two hundred industrial units scattered by the various municipalities of the districts of Bragança and Vila Real, which shows well the high impact on the employment and economic sustainability of families in a region where industry in general is scarce. It happens that recently some alarmist news, I would say, until very little clear, would create a certain mistrust in consumers, which makes this discussion even more timely, which we do today. We believe that it is important for consumers to rely on the high degree of certification of this food product, as well as on the intense monitoring carried out in the various stages of the production, conservation and marketing process and that they guarantee the safety necessary for their consumption, because food safety is the most important ingredient in consumer choice. Therefore, in general, we follow up with the authors of the various legislative initiatives which, in our view, involve proposals that, most of them, can represent an important instrument for defending, valuing and supporting the production of others in the region of Trás-os-Montes, while also forgetting the importance of this economic activity for the survival of the rural world and the fight against desertification in a zone such as Trás-Os-Montes. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u30	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u31	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, following the reduction in the consumption of meat processed by the Portuguese, and well, it was scheduled for today, World Cancer Day, the discussion of initiatives that aim to attribute financial, institutional benefits to the production and consumption of a filled: a processed meat. The International Cancer Research Agency, an agency of the World Health Organization, published a study in October 2015 officializing data that science has been gathering over several years. Processed meat was considered Group 1 carcinogenic for human consumption, category used when there is convincing and unequivocal evidence that this agent causes cancer, especially from the rectal neck and digestive tract. To be clear: we are part of a market economy, of free choice and each licensed producer is free to produce processed meat. We live in democracy and each citizen is free to decide his/her diet and consumption. What the NAP disagrees with and opposed to is that public money is being applied to finance and promote the consumption and production of food products categorized as carcinogenic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u32	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u33	I will finish, Mr. President. As a legislative entity, the Assembly of the Republic should be the first bulwark of defending the superior interests of citizens, ensuring their health and healthy lifestyles, the deterioration of the national pathological framework and the consequent sustainability of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u34	For a second speech, Mr José Silvano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u35	Mr President, allow me, in this last speech, to indeed give a quick response to Mr André Silva's WFP Member, saying that the others are not in this kind of processed meat.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u36	He is, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u37	It is not because the alien has as ingredients olive oil and bread and essentially white meat. But I'm telling you something else, too simple: the alien has some secret ingredients,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... that makes it more appreciated, but they're so secret that I can't tell you what they are! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u38	It is a pity, because, from this debate, we could make a treaty on others, but it will not be possible. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u39	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u40	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u41	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u42	For an interview with the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u43	Yes, Mr President, it is only to tell the honourable Member that the name of the party I represent is not PAM but PAN, P-A-N.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u44	Mrs. Members, having concluded the debate on draft resolutions 73, 118, 120 and 127 / XIII ( 1 ). a ), we move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion and the generality of the projects of lein.o 110 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Promotes the establishment of an administrative committee to regulate the debts of the extinct House of Douro and the situation of its employees ( PS ), 57 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Decree-Law No 152 / 2014 of 15 October 2014 on the House of Douro ( PCP ), and 121 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Regulates the heritage of the House of Douro ( BE ). To present the PS bill, Mr. Ascenso Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A special greeting to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because it is the second time that we have discussed the affairs of the Demarcada do Douro region. I would like to greet the winegrowers who are watching this debate today and tell them that we are always on their side to defend our region. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today the Socialist Party is presenting a legislative initiative which does not end in this debate or in this session. This is an initiative which aims, firstly, to open a debate in the Commission so that we can solve a number of problems which the Douro region and the House of Douro have. The first problem concerns the decision of the courts to resolve the situation of the debts of the House of Douro. It is important for Parliament to correct a previous decision and find the appropriate wording so that we can quickly resolve the debts of the House of Douro. But the problem does not end here, because there is still the circumstance of terms to re-enter the House of Douro, as a compulsory registration institution of public law. And why? Because only a Douro House of compulsory registration of public law can guarantee the perennial benefit and sustainability of the region, especially the sustainability of the region as a World Heritage Site. We therefore appeal to all parties in this House that, whether or not they have put forward legislative initiatives, they can meet with us in order to find a definitive solution, based on the principle that we are all on good faith and that the Douro, a region of the country that has been promoting a single product for more than 200 years, will find a definitive solution in this Parliament. We are therefore, Mr President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in a position to work with all parties in the Commission to find a final solution and we all hope for a compromise in this regard. Thank you very much, Mr President, and I hope that Mr President can also sponsor the meeting of a solution in this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u46	Mr Ascenso Simões, we will do what we can, and not more, than that. Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I greet all those who have never stopped fighting in defense of the House of Douro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u49	The former PSD/CDS Government has endeavoured to destroy the representation of wine production in the Douro to open up space and leave free hands to marketing, in particular to large exporting houses. Marketing and production have antagonistic interests and the House of Douro has emerged to safeguard production from the power of marketing. In the face of a representation of production and a House of Douro weakened by decisions of successive governments, which were withdrawing competences and revenues to the House of Douro and limiting its action, the decision of the PSD/CDS Government was not to strengthen the representation of production but, before, to end the House of Douro, transferring the representation of production to entities linked to the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ), which was never significant in the region, and to exporting houses. The pretext of financial consolidation, the representation of production in IVDP (Instituto dos Vinhos do Douro and do Porto ) is today in the hands of those who yesterday represented trade, in the framework of a process, at least strange and with a dimension far beyond the previous legislation. The representation of production is today much worse and made by a private entity, which represents less than half of the producers and leaves out important subsectors, such as cooperatives and bottlers producers, who integrated the representation when it was insured by the House of Douro. The Demarcated Region of the Douro, Heritage of Humanity, has an intimate connection to small and medium-sized producers, and their survival depends on a strong representation. It was for the defense of the winegrowers and for the reversal of the process of destruction of the House of Douro that the PCP Parliamentary Group presented the bill under discussion, i.e., to surgically cancel the entire competitive process of surrender of the representation and headquarters of the House of Douro to a private entity emerging from the exporting houses and the CAP, as an important element of destruction of the House of Douro. So reversing this delivery is an important step. The CFP did not agree with the amendment to the Statutes of the House of Douro, but we wanted to prioritize the intervention and we began to cancel the invitation to tender. in the same way, it is necessary to address the financial issue seriously, removing from time to time the bankruptcy speech of the House of Douro, which focuses only on the debts of the institution, forgetting the assets more than enough to cover the liabilities. The PS and the Left Block also presented bills, although not exactly in the same sense. These parties, together with the CFP, voted against the legislative authorization under which the PSD/CDS Government promoted the amendment of the Statutes of the House of Douro. It is the understanding of the CFP that conditions are created to reverse the situation and create a strong representation of wine production and respond to pressing problems, such as the stay of a private entity at the headquarters of the House of Douro, where is the history of a public entity or the administration of the heritage, in particular of wines. But it is also necessary to point out already a path, which has to be tracked and built from now on and which does not leave the workers of the House of Douro. The position of the CFP with regard to this situation is that production must be represented by an entity of a public nature and compulsory registration, because only with these characteristics can it represent all and create conditions for a fair defence of production. The conflict promoted by the delivery of the House of Douro to a private entity proves that the CFP is right. The CFP has full availability to work in the field of specialty a proposal that responds to the desires and interests of the Durian winegrowers. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u50	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After all, the fight for the House of Douro is not a lost cause. The pretense solution that the former Government wanted to put into practice for the House of Douro would destroy the representativeness of the Durum wine growers in the current regulatory body of the Inter-Professional Council and give the Demarcated Region of Douro to trade — Vital Moreira called it 'the English factory' — which, regardless of the nationality of origin of these capitals, which today is more diverse, would lead to the liberalisation of the market and the destruction of the region. There is already, by the Douro, who foresees the end of the award of the benefit. The damage to the cultivation of the Douro and to the prestige and quality of the Port Wine would be evident. Export trade, which is increasingly financed, wrongly insists on the low cost of production and on the dependence of the speculative nature of the market. The farm wants the appreciation of production, because it is this appreciation that brings economic and social gains to the development of the Douro region,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u52	...and this has been the secular fracture of the Douro. Democracy returned autonomy to the House of Douro, giving it public nature with representative function of all producers. As a result of the equal vote and the ineligibility of producers who, at the same time, were traders, it was sought to ensure the protection of the interests of wine growers. The former government, under the debt argument of the House of Douro, stimulated the fracture in favour of one of the parties, disbalanced and disassemblyed the region. He extinguished the House of Douro, reduced the strength and representativeness of production in the Inter-Professional Council and sought to deliver his heritage to private people, disrespecting the work of many generations of Duronians, the true producers of the Douro economic and landscape wealth. in reality, Decree-Law No. 152 / 2014 did not solve the problem of the debt of Casa do Douro but, just, try to forget the historical debt that the region and the country have in relation to the many generations of producers and agricultural workers who have made, with enormous effort and labor, the prestige of the Port Wine. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u53	This is unacceptable! This is a direct attack on the region, on the thousands of wine growers, who are more than 30,000 with 1 ha of land, on average, people working and sacrifices, many of them with low incomes and in a rapidly impoverished situation, and also to derail the fair expectations of the workers of the House of Douro who continue to pay late. in the immediate future, the essential thing is not to allow this attack to continue, it is to defend the producers, the families of small and medium-sized wine growers and prevent the worsening of the economic and social situation in the region which is already unbearable for many. The majority consensus in this House to move forward, in this emergency situation, with an independent administrative committee that ensures the management of the House of Douro's estate, which finds a plan for the payment of debts and which respects the rights of workers is the right way and that is what we have outlined. With the stabilization of the situation of the House of Douro, conditions will be created for the producers of the Douro and this House to find, in a democratic and participated manner, the most suitable model for the entity to succeed. The starting position of the Left Block for this debate, which is urgent, is that the House of Douro will soon serve if it is emptied of its public nature and compulsory registration.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u54	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u55	I conclude immediately, Mr President. The representativeness of all producers must be ensured. There will not really be a region demarcated from the strong Douro without a strong organisation and representation of the Durian farm. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u56	For an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing, once again, the question of the House of Douro and I want to take advantage of to greet all producers, all workers, all suppliers, all residents of the Douro region and tell them that, on behalf of the CDS, we have always done the work so that the conditions in the Douro could be better than those that existed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in more than 30 years when the House of Douro, as a public association of compulsory registration, agonized, constituted debts, if heavily indebted a solution was never found to solve their problems, this solution was found by the previous government, in which the CDS was together with the PSD. In 30 years, administrations, because of incapacity, because of incompetence, or because they did not want to, were never able to solve the problem. In particular, I ask my friend and colleague, Mr Ascenso Simões, and I ask you to explain to me slowly, slowly: an entity that for 30 years was public and compulsory registration and only had 15 % of the winegrowers paying quotas, despite mandatory, how does it want, now, to be public and compulsory registration, to be attractive and to solve the problems that you have not been able to solve for more than 30 years? Mr. Deputies, explain to me this slowly, slowly, which is for me to understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u59	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the Douro effectively needs an entity that represents it, but an entity that is recognised by the wine growers and that actually represents them. The other entity has already failed, has not been able to regenerate, has not been able to reorganize to do so. So, how do you think now you're supposed to do it? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they also explain to me how the resolution of this whole issue goes through as simple a way as the Socialist Party here proposed. In other words, there was the appointment of a liquidator to manage, identify, settle the debts of the House of Douro and hand over the property to the entity that happened to it, which the Socialist Party has now proposed is just this: "No! One person does not serve, must be three, appointed by the government and acquaintances of the region. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” They do not have to be knowledgeable of management, nor of bankruptcy management—no! — they must be familiar with the region. Mr Ascenso Simões, right now, explains to me whether this is not just and just to get some more boys to name! That's all I think you're here, but I'm probably wrong! But, Mr Ascenso Simões, given the urgency with which this is required, also explains to me why the Socialist Party is now asking for the Commission to be discharged without a 60-day vote of a diploma that says it is so urgent. And then you are asking for the postponement of the vote? Oh, my God! Explain to me why this is happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u60	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, because your time has already been greatly exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u61	Also explain to me who is with the farmers and the Durian wine growers in this work, who have to have answers for their wine-growing activity, which they deserve, because the product is good and the people of the Douro are even better than the product. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u62	Mr President, this comparison between products and people seems to me to be a bit difficult to measure. Mr António Lima Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The three bills under discussion, of so incompatible that they are between themselves, do not appear to come from three parties that support a government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u64	They don't get along with each other. on the one hand, we have the bills of radical left law on the status of the House of Douro and, on the other hand, the bill of the Socialist Party directly confronting the Communist Party with its proposal for debt regulation. Please note: in the explanatory statement of your bill, the Communist Party accuses the former Government of — and I quote: «With an apology for the payment of debts, it is intended to deliver the wine that the institution holds and its heritage, which is heritage of the Durian farm, to some friends». Well, what brings us here today the Socialist Party? A bill that aims to pay off debts, selling the wine that the institution holds and its heritage, which is heritage of the Durian farm.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u65	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u66	We are very curious to see how the Communist Party reacts to this face of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u67	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u68	But let's go to parts: the two bills of law on the radical left, truly, in the background, merely intend, the pretext of the discussion of the statutes of the House of Douro, return to the time of the Prec and enter the House of Douro with an administrative commission, taken this time, not on the skirts of the MFA, but on the issue of « management ». [[PCP and BE protests.]] If there is a resistance of responsibility in the Socialist Party — and we hope so — these two bills of law on the radical left will simply fall. That is,'management' will press. And it is good that you press, because the Douro finally begins to make peace. Its institutions finally begin to work for small and medium-sized farmers and create the basis for the main economic sector in this region to modernise and adapt to new times. As far as the Socialist Party bill is concerned, they want, they say, to restore legality and to dispel legal doubts, but it is not worth to resume this discussion until, as far as the essence is concerned, as regards the objectives, the model that the Socialist Party here brings us today is equal to what they revoked last month. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u69	Therefore, we have worked hard to realize that the Socialist Party, in the substance of the thing, in the essence of the thing, agrees with the PSD and CDS in this matter. There are, in fact, some differences: your bill is wrapped up in a very nice package, so that you can please everyone and satisfy some particular interests. They notice, when the project of the former Government stipulated an administrator to regulate the debt, the Socialist Party now proposes three administrators to regulate the debt. It's great and French! Are there three jobs for the boys, as has already been said? When the project of the previous Government sought to maximize the revenue, the Socialist Party gave the right of preference to production representative organisations, assuming that they refer to the cooperative sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u70	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u71	This is only for English to see, because, as you know, cooperatives — and I am finished now, Mr President — are totally decapitalized. But more serious than that is that some of them have behind them commercial companies. Is the right of preference in sales a capocious way of placing any heritage in the hands of wine traders? Mr President, I conclude by saying that we will be careful and in committee we will deepen these and other issues. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u72	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the House of Douro was created with two very clear purposes: on the one hand, to defend the wine growers of the Douro region; and on the other hand to ensure the quality of the wine produced in this demarcated region. It happens that over time we have been witnessing successive legislative amendments which, in practical terms, brought about the emptying of the powers of the House of Douro and the transfer of its revenue to the Institute of Douro and Porto wines. As a result of these options, especially from the previous government, the House of Douro has seen its situation worsened and was virtually unable to develop and shape its duties. The next step, given by the previous government, was aimed at the destruction of the House of Douro as a public association for the representation and defense of the Duronian vine growers, which, in fact, was never hidden by the Government. following that decision, or by drag, there were still two more objectives in the mind of the government, not so much assumed. The first was to end the benefit system, which is the only way for wine growers to be able to make their production profitable in an area which, as it is known, is of reduced productivity. And the second objective, on the pretext of payment of debts, was to deliver the wine and the rest of the heritage of Casa do Douro, which is the heritage of all the winegrowers of the Douro, half a dozen people. Now, these previous government decisions were so noble that, as it was expected and as you know, that debt remains to be settled. In other words, such payment of debts was only the pretext for handing over the heritage of the House of Douro. This is no longer to mention the competition for the association that would happen to the House of Douro, a competition filled with strange contours and which has been won, of course, by people linked to exporting houses. from The Greens, we continue to defend the House of Douro and continue to defend that the House of Douro must maintain its legal nature as an entity of public law and, immediately, it is interested to ensure that its valuable heritage remains in the sphere of public interest, because only in this way will future assaults be prevented from the House of Douro. I do not know if that was the attack Mr. Abel Baptist was referring to, but only in this way do these attacks be avoided, such as that which occurred in November last year, on the exact day when your Government saw its Government Programme fall. But it is also the only way to prevent the great economic interests, linked to the Douro, from getting close to the House of the Douro and its valuable heritage. Finally, Mr President, I would just like to greet all the Durumese wine growers and, in particular, those who are here with us today to accompany the work. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u74	For a second speech, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Regarding the occupation of the House of Douro, I know that the PSD and the CDS like to accuse the PCP. In fact, this was what they did after 25 April: they mobilized farmers saying that the CFP wanted to rob them of the House of Douro. Now, here is proof that whoever stole the House of Douro from the winegrowers and the Douro were the lords. It was the gentlemen who promoted their collapsing and put in there whoever they wanted. You guys did that. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. Abel Baptista, on solving the problems and on administrative errors, suggested that he speak to some of the CDS militants who were administrators of the House of Douro and ask them what mistakes they made in their administration. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u76	These may give you the full response of the errors of the administration. [[PCP applause.]] But to blame solely the administrations is to forget the garrote that governments imposed on the administration of the House of Douro for its operation. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen like to say that we, on the left, do not understand each other. Now, to destroy the House of Douro, the PSD and the CDS understood very well. The PSD gave up what it defended and walked the CDS trailer in this matter of destruction and occupation of the House of Douro. I know it bothers you that we can try to find a solution for the House of Douro. It bothers you because a solution to the House of Douro means taking away the interests that you have installed in the region.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u77	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u78	Well, that's what bothers you. We will make every contribution to withdraw the interests you have set up in the region, because our solution and the interests we will defend will always be the interests of the small and medium-sized wine growers and the interests of the Demarcated Douro Region. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u79	Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by saying to Mr Abel Baptist that there are two ways of doing this debate: the first way is to look at the decades before us and find ourselves responsible for each point. We can find a lot, but we won't leave the place. We have a problem, which is of a legal nature: the court told us that the decision was wrong and that we had to solve it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u81	That's the court!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u82	And we have a problem of understanding the Douro, which is: without the House of Douro of public law and compulsory registration we have no benefit in the long term, and the region ends, as we know it, within two decades. This is the central point, Mr. Abel Baptista. And I would like to tell you that I claim your presence to find a consensual solution. The debate is sometimes a dynamic, confrontational debate, but the Douro is full of confrontational debate. The Douro needs a definitive solution, and that is why I ask you. Mr. Abel Baptista and Mr.António Lima Costa to help us find this definitive solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u83	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move to the point of our agenda. After the swings and the Douro wine, it would be dessert. But no, it's the buckets. Therefore, we will appreciate the Decree-Law No 165 / 2015 of 17 August that proceeds from the regulation of the Baldies Law, approved by Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, as amended by Law No 89 / 97 of 30 July, and Law No 72 / 2014 of 2 September[ Parliamentary judgments No 9 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( BE) and 3 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The baldiums are Community land, goods of a collective nature, as provided for in the Constitution, used and enjoyed by residents of a particular parish, parish or parish. They are not suitable for each of the shares, they are not alienable, nor are they subject to other businesses eligible under private law, nor are they subject to acquisition by Uscapion. The baldiums have always been and are important source of wealth for the life of their communities. During the so-called New State, especially from the late 1940s to the mid-60s, attempts to end this community property were numerous. The baldiums were attacked by the forest services of the Salazarist State, with violent expulsion from the peoples, deprived of their use. The occupation of baldium force by forest services contributed significantly to the impoverishment of rural populations in the north and the center of the country, to the depopulation of significant numbers of villages and to forced emigration in the 1960s and 1970s. The height statistics reflect the significant breakdown of the goat and sheep cattle, which was most paste in the buckets, essential for small local communities. The resistance of the peoples to the polishing and the greed of privatization has always been tenacious and with remarkable effectiveness, especially in the North and the Center of the Country. The first organized struggles took place even before April 25 and were perpetuated in the literature by the punishment of Aquilino Ribeiro — I remember When the Lobos Uivam. Immediately after 25 April, the people demanded the Interim Government to refund the buckets they had and are entitled to. At the beginning of 1976, legislative measures arose to refund the people of the baldiums, which were always theirs and that the New State had disposed them. Today, technological evolution has allowed other agricultural and forest uses, and the installation of important wind farms is a source of wealth for the people of the baldiums, which manage them on the basis of democratic principles. In order to understand the importance of these land and the enormous appetite that awakens in private interests, it should be noted that, throughout the country, it is 500 000 h, which corresponds to about 5 % of the national territory. By Decree-Law No 165 / 2015 of 17 August 2015 of the authorship of the previous Government, of the majority PSD / CDS, the baldiums have ceased to have the legal nature of Community goods and have created mechanisms for their progressive privatization as regards exploitation and also for their passage to private goods. The baldiums became assets, i.e. private, by converting the Community's means of production into the private sector's means of production in this case. Constitutional protection was ignored at the baldios as a means of Community production. instead of promoting and supporting the economic exploitation of baldiums in new, more modern forms, the former majority took advantage of some management difficulties to open the way to changing the nature of this property and, in due course, to its privatization. The Left Block is directly against this usurpation of Community property and defends it at all levels, including here in the Assembly of the Republic. Against the deprivation of ancestral rights, constitutionally protected, the Left Block defends peoples and their common heritage. Today, usurpation cannot win, where, decades ago, Salazar failed! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u85	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The former PSD/CDS government elected the baldiums as one of the targets of its ideological policy. Knowing the history of the baldiums, we are not surprised by this desire for PSD and CDS to regain ground in this matter. The baldiums are the property of the peoples, managed by shares and complement of individual and collective income and have made a fundamental contribution to the fixation and maintenance of rural communities. The fascist dictatorship of Salazar tried to take over these Community properties, confiscating them to its legitimate owners, to subject them to foresting processes. With the April revolution, the peoples regained their ancestral right to use and use their buckets. This will not be beyond the PSD and CDS attack. The former government made major changes: it changed the concept of sharing, disrespecting the uses and customs and introducing potential conflicts in the management of the baldiums; it eased the process of extinction of baldiums, no longer requiring the decision of a court; and it opened the possibility of the baldiums being accessible to legal trade. The baldium spaces are desirable for the production of eucalyptus. The pressure of the paper pulp industry is known in increasing the production area rather than improving productivity. It was with this framework that the PCP Parliamentary Group voted against the amendment to the Baldies Act, promoted by PSD and CDS. This Act ended only by passing the votes of the proposers, and the other parliamentary groups voted against. The document now under consideration has been regulated by that Law. The CFP has a fundamental divergence with the amendment made in the Baldios Act and, by analogy, also with its regulations. I will give some examples of the fundamental divergence, among many others that I could mention. One of the unacceptable issues, for example, is that the State wants to be compensated for the investment made in the buckets, when the investment was not discussed between the two managers — the State and the holding entity of the bucket — and was made with revenue from the buckets themselves. in the same way, there are baldiums that the state today intends to deliver without forest assets, after 40 years of management, but there it is no longer expected that the state will compensate the management entity of the baldium. Another example that we can point out is the fact that the rules have come to put matters which the original legislation does not lay down. For example, the Law clarifies legally and objectively the cessation of co-management, but the regulation has to depend on this action of a delivery car that is dependent on the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and Forests). The evidence that an attempt is being made to promote an obstacle is that all requests for self-management await the preparation of the delivery car. The amendment to the Baldies Act deserved the rejection of the CFP's Parliamentary Group and, in the same way, the regulation of the CFP does not improve it, on the contrary, it aggravates aspects which may even become more serious. in this framework, and in coherence with its position, it is the intention of the PCP to cease this Decree-Law and, for this, we will present a project to cease its validity and we will work to promote a change to the Law that safeguards the people's right to use their baldiums as community property. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u87	Mr Joaquim Barreto spoke also for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on baldiums involves ideological concepts and thoughts, as well as community experiences that are based on political options and their definitions, with the aim of increasing the well-being of populations and avoiding conflicts. in the political discussion on baldios, we remember Aquilino Ribeiro and his historical novel When the Lobos Uivam, where he described in a brilliant way the social dimension of the shares and the use and use of the baldios. The baldiums are integrated into the cooperative and social sector as "Community means of production owned and managed by local communities", and these communities are made up of the universe of the shares, which have used and enjoyed these spaces, according to their uses and customs. over time, the yield of baldium has been an important support for the economies of thousands of small farmers in central and northern Portugal. As is public knowledge, the PS strongly opposed, in the last legislation, many of the amendments promoted by the previous Government to Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, which raised legal doubts and political issues, of which we stand out: not to recognize that the baldium lands represented a strategic vector for the local development of the low density territories, especially in the mountainous areas of central and northern Portugal ; to extend the universe of the shares to all voters of a particular parish, which, in our view, completely deverts the idea of the use and use of the baldium, according to the uses and customs. Thus, Law No 72/2014 should be amended because some basic principles and rules are not respected for the proper functioning and management of the buckets. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today, we are discussing two requests for parliamentary review of Decree-Law No 165 / 2015, which regulates the Baldies Act. This Decree-Law deserves us strong criticism and must be repealed, among other things, for the following reasons: it is necessary to revert the figure of extinction of buckets to the original form, excluding the possibility of extinction when the baldium is in a 'non-use situation' ; we cannot accept the way in which the lack of use of these buckets is identified and the competence given to the Administration to monitor the use of baldia areas by the shares; it should not be admitted that the Community's equipment is integrated in the private domain of a community or more fregueis, because of the mere fact that a particular baldium is not 'used' within a period of 15 years; the Government has not sought to guarantee the State's suitability as regards the compensation that the shares have to pay for their departure from co-management of the baldiums. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PS, it is important to improve the management of baldiums with the adoption of new flexible models that increase the participation of shares and improve the monitoring of the yield of baldiums, as well as rigor and transparency in management. Since we are talking about buckets, it is appropriate and important to review the guidelines in force which have reduced the available and eligible areas for farmers' candidatures to CAP support. Defending community spaces is to defend history, traditions, uses and customs, combat desertification and avoid rural abandonment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u89	Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on 2 April 2014, we had a debate here on the Baldies Act, brought up by the Parliamentary Groups of the PSD and the CDS. We remember well what the left said about the bill that we then introduced. They called us everything! They said we were privatizing the buckets,
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u91	All true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u92	...to steal the buckets from the shares and do what Salazar tried to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u93	All true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u94	And in the middle of it all, they even left pearls like: « The Members who are intervening in this plenary do not know what are badies, because they are from the south». That was the level of the debate! They also spoke in many and varied unconstitutionalities. You were lucky, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! It's just the ladies. Members have requested an assessment of the constitutionality of this diploma and know perfectly well that in November last year, the Constitutional Court's judgment came and — no doubt! — the Constitutional Court, which would give a task, a lesson, to the Social Democratic Party and to the CDS-PP, considered that all the rules are constitutional. Imagine, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, you said that we would'rob' the badges by ordinary law, but after all, the Constitutional Court considers it to be an appropriate law and that, more than that, it corresponds to the signs of the times. In fact, I quote the Constitutional Court: « The confinement of the universe of the shares to a restricted core of members of the community of residents has, as it is maintained, become inappropriate ‘to face collective goods(...)’” object of great exploitation. The problem, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, today's revenue from the buckets is not just a collection of wood. Today, baddies have very high revenues because of water and wind issues. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u95	Well, well! That's what you're looking at!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u96	What are you guys doing? Members want, and they always want, to be very few or the same to manage that. What we want is that they are all Fregues, extending the concept of shares. You, who are always talking about the people, make it possible for all the Fregues who have activity to be able to enjoy these same buckets and their recipes, which in them must be applied. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the confusion that makes you? Oh, my God! What you want is for very few to do that management. What we want is to make the accounts transparent, with the obligation to transmit these accounts to the Tax and Customs Authority, and to have proper scrutiny by the assembly of shares. Another question: you said it was impossible to rent. Yes, sir. Members, the Constitutional Court also says: "Let's rent! There's no problem! There is, indeed, no distinction between the sale of the holding and the lease». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they took a lesson from the Constitutional Court! Now, go, again, make that reversal. This is a reversal which is probably not going to bring claims for compensation, as the Mexicans are going to submit, but it is a huge public retreat on this matter. Read the Constitutional Court's judgment very well! Ladies and gentlemen, Portuguese Communist Party, Left Block and — stop! — The Socialist Party will lead to a huge setback in this Community nature, when the Constitutional Court says, well, that with this legislation it will continue to be a Community and there will be no problem about it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u97	Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, think carefully about what they are going to do, because there is no problem. In fact, the Law has been in force since October 2014 and there have been no problems in the management of the buckets. BALADI — The National Federation of Baldies began by speaking — we know their public positions well — but after that there was no problem. This is a well-managed subject, the Fregues have the opportunity to benefit from these same baldiums, and this makes all the sense in the context of the evolution which the Constitutional Court has always recognized since 1976. I therefore ask the Socialist Party not to go in this "song"! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u98	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to tell Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos that he should not speak of the lessons of the Constitutional Court, because in about 30, they are losing for a lot, they are losing almost for 29 - 1. What is true is that, throughout our democracy, various attempts have been made to attack the community ownership and management of the baldiums. But this claim did not start only in our democracy. That is why the diploma we now appreciate brings us back to memory the distant 1940s of the last century, when the populations rose against the expropriation of the baldiums, a struggle that, in fact, Aquilino Ribeiro ended up immortalizing in his work When the Lobos Uivam. In fact, the former Government has led to a substantial change to the Baldies Law, an amendment which has extended the grounds for extinguishing the buckets, exempting the respective judicial decision; adulterating the concept of sharing, passing over centuries of uses and customs ; integrating the buckets into the private heritage of the fragesias and the municipal chambers; interfering directly in the internal life of the board of directors; taking the appropriation of captive money for years and years by the State; and opening its delivery to privates. This was the work of the PSD/CDS Government in this area: a real attack on the Community ownership and management of baldiums, allowing them to divest themselves and privatize, even though our Constitution expressly enshrines within the sectors owned by the means of production, "the Community means of production, owned and managed by local communities". But, also on the amendment made by the PSD/CDS Government to the Baldios Law, we have to mention an element which, in our view, is of great importance in this discussion: the major interests in the sector, in particular the production of eucalyptus, have long been willing to make such a change in order to be able to lay hands on the buckets. Therefore, it is legitimate to question whether, in the face of the amendments of the previous PSD/CDS Government to the Baldies Law, we will not be faced with any further aid to the business of celluloses, to the detriment of public interest, populations and shares. It is that, after the law of the country's eucalyptization, and by the hand of the PSD government / CDS, the amendments to the Baldies Law have also come. It's all helping a few! Finally, I want to say that this diploma, whose appreciation we now make, and which comes to regulate Law No 72 / 2014, ends up being another element of conflict between Community and private interests and rights, between shared and intruders and between neighbouring populations. That is also why the Greens follow the purposes of the Block of Left and the Portuguese Communist Party in the parliamentary assessment of this diploma and also present a legislative initiative, which has already entered the Bureau, in order to put an end to Decree-Law No 165 / 2015 of 17 August. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u100	For an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Although Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos has already had enough escalated here the issue of Decree-Law No 165 / 2015 of 17 August, with regard to his adequacy with the Constitution of the Republic, he asked the Portuguese Communist Party, the Block of Left and the Ecological Party « The Greens », and since they always come with the speech that Salazar was not able to make the appropriation of the buckets and that the previous government wanted to do, if by any chance they consider the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic to be salazarist. [[PS and PCP protests.]] It is that the Constitutional Court has come to say that Decree-Law No 165 / 2015 is in accordance with the Constitution, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic of 1974! By chance, it's okay, so there's something that doesn't hurt right! [[Protests by PS MP Joaquim Barreto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u102	You're talking about the Constitution against which the CDS voted, right?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u103	Mr Joaquim Barreto, you have been president of the chamber for many years in a region where there are buckets. Do you not think that this law that the previous government has passed goes against what is a very large ambition of a significant part of the board of directors of the rural communities that have badios, including the parish councils? Oh, my God! ANAFRE ( National Association of Frequencies ) gave a favourable opinion on this matter, so that this law would enter into force as regards the way of management, the provision of accounts, the form of election, the term of office of the baldium leaders. And, look, what you are trying to do, if it is behind what has been asked by the Block on the Left, which is the cessation of the validity of this diploma, is to prevent the freedom of those who are possessing the baldium of power, for example, to give it power, for example, rather than to make forest, to give it to wind farms by withdrawing income from there to the local community and applying a significant part of that income to that which is the main objective of the baldium, which is the forest! It's just that it's in the law. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] What you now want to do is go back, leave the buckets years and years without paying attention, in many situations you do not know, indeed, what is done to the money... [[Protests by PS MP Joaquim Barreto.]] Don't say no, Mr Joaquim Barreto, because that's true. And you are aware of many of these situations! What we want is that the baldiums have their useful social function, that is to be income for the communities, forested territory, or, in some circumstances, because it is not only forest, territory of extraction of inerts in many of them. in our region, Mr Joaquim Barreto, granite is often extracted from these areas. And there must be accountability, there must be good management, not only because of the territory, not only because of the money, but also because of environmental issues, Mr. That is what this diploma has done, as the Constitutional Court has stated, when it comes to giving us reason, it has not been taking property away from anyone, nor is it forcing anyone to do differently, it is to give freedom so that they can do it. What they want to do now seems to be forcing people not to manage as they like and very well understand their region. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u104	For a second speech, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin with the question of the Constitutional Court, stating that it is always interesting to see the CDS clinging to the Constitution against which it voted...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u107	...to attack this decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u108	Exactly! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u109	But the Constitutional Court's statement no longer makes your decision fair! [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u110	What the Constitutional Court says is that there are other solutions for buckets that can also be fair. And it is significant that the only argument the PSD used here to justify its amendment was to say « it is done so, do not alter, it is not necessary to do otherwise». That was the only argument they could bring, to say « do not alter what has already been done», even in the line of that speech of « do not reverse the evils we have done ». [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u111	And, therefore, we accompany...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u112	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u113	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we follow the criticisms that Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos has described. But you have not forgotten — they have mentioned it, and very well — to mention what your true intention is, ending up talking about it. It is that, when the buckets were only for the poor to feed cattle, there was no problem, but now, that they can give another type of yield with the wind,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...here's the king, the poor can no longer manage their buckets and the gentlemen no longer agree! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u114	I ask you to conclude, Mr. João Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u115	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. You have taken a number of decisions with a view to the interests of the paper pulp industries, with the law of eucalyptization and also with this law of changing the shelves. These are the interests of a company that only in 2015 had nearly 200 million euros of profit. That shows very well which side you are on!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u116	Mrs. Members, having finished this item on the agenda and before we move on to the next item, Mr Pedro Alves will inform you of the dossier which has now entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions 139 / XIII ( 1. ( BE ), 140 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( The Greens) and 141 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 165 / 2015 of 17 August 2015 which regulates the Baldies Act, approved by Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, as amended by Law No 89 / 97 of 30 July, and Law No 72 / 2014 of 2 September. In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next point on our agenda, which will be filled with the general discussion of the projects of lein.o 108 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Suspends the application of the supported lease scheme ( Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 September ) ( PCP ) and 122 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the lease scheme supported for greater social justice — First amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December ( BE) together with draft resolutions No 114 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the results of the application of Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December at the end of its first year of validity ( PSD ), 119 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conduct an assessment of the application of the housing-supported lease scheme in coordination and collaboration with the competent entities ( CDS-PP ) and 126 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of maximum income limits supported by the effort rate to prevent exponential increases in income supported by the social districts managed by IHRU ( PS ). In accordance with the order of registering requests for speech to the Bureau for speeches, the first recorded speaker is Mrs Paula Santos, to whom I give the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow a first word on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group to address the residents present in the galleries, to attend this debate, residents who, in the face of the injustice to which they are subjected, did not lower their arms, fought, intervened in defense of their right to housing. We value very much and acknowledge your intervention. Keep fighting for exactly this right. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Helena Roseta's deputy.]] It is not today, but it has been a long time since the CFP spoke on the subject now under discussion: the injustice of the supported income regime. Once again, in this Parliament, the CFP was the first party to present its proposals on this matter so that, once and for all, we can solve the difficult situation in which these residents are living. The residents saw their right to housing committed, with the previous law and also with the current law, to the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS, which, contrary to the resolutions adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, maintained an unfair regime, which led to gross increases in income. More than that, PSD and CDS have still introduced mechanisms that lead to the eviction of residents of their dwellings, where they have lived for decades, because they have not been able to pay these income values, which are irrelevant to their incomes, so they find themselves in a situation of having to leave these same dwellings. That's what we want to stop here today! It was in this sense that the CFP allocated this debate, in the face of the urgent and emerging situation in which these residents are living, which also stems from the economic and social situation imposed by PSD and CDS, with low wages, low pensions, cuts in social benefits, increased labour income taxes, leading to further degradation of their living conditions. [[PSD protests.]] In view of this situation, it is therefore urgent that, in the Assembly of the Republic, injustice should cease from now on, and that these high income values should cease which residents do not have the ability to pay, in view of their incomes, and that they should avoid evictions for the time being. The CFP also presented a set of proposals to review the supported income regime. These proposals are intended to introduce fair criteria that lead to income values that are compatible with the real economic and social conditions of these same residents, namely that net income is accounted for instead of gross income, that are excluded from the calculation of income non-permanent premiums and allowances, that there is an increase for the elderly or for single-parent families, and that there is also a maximum rate of exertion of up to 15 % of the household income.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u120	Exactly
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u121	We also propose that housing accessibility be guaranteed to persons with reduced mobility and that, within the framework of autonomy of the autonomous regions and authorities, these entities may have their own regulations, which adapt to the neighborhoods under their responsibility. We also propose the elimination of waste, guaranteeing the right to housing. It is in our hands, the Assembly of the Republic, that we can stop this injustice from now on so that these people can have guaranteed their right to housing. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u122	For an intervention, Mrs Emília Santos has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The supported lease regime, which today returns to the debate in this House, is no more than the reform that everyone has claimed, some have announced, but in fact only the previous government has the courage to do. [[BE's protests.]] We are talking about a balanced, generous, necessary and awaited reform over 20 years ago. [[All right!]] [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u124	Therefore, it is never more important to remember that since 1996 the Socialist Party has proposed to change the law of incomes supported by considering unfair,... [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] ...but the truth is that in 15 years he didn't do anything. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u125	And you didn't do it for pure choice! There was no lack of initiatives and recommendations which, in the interest of truth, came from the most diverse entities, including the opinion of the Ombudsman, which the Government of the Socialist Party put in the drawer, as it has done to its entire historical legacy now handed over to the leftmost. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u126	You didn't, but you announced, Mr. Members: he announced, among other things, the defense of a'social housing policy' instead of a'social housing policy' — the play of words always here in fashion! — these words of the then Secretary of State João Ferrão, in 2006, which were once again filled with nothing. [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] That said, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have come here to reinforce, for future memory, that the PSD has not only left work and a national strategy for housing, as it is proud to assume the paternity of this reform. We have no doubt that this lease scheme is meeting its objectives, supporting the most deprived families. And the best proof of this was that over the past four years, they have been voluntarily handed over to the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilitation Urbana) more than 1000 homes whose residents paid only €4 or €5 of income and did not use them. But we also have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that any reform should be assessed, monitored and improved whenever justified. Therefore, the PSD bench is available to assess the results of the application of this scheme at the end of its first year of operation, from 1 March. However, let us not hide our most absolute surprise with the change in the position of the Socialist Party, who today defends the opposite of what he did when he was in government. The PS today argues that the supported lease should be calculated on the basis of the net income of families and not gross income. But let's pass Mrs. Members, by coincidence of the coincidences, made precisely five years today — on 4 February 2011 — that this Socialist Party, which is the same Socialist Party of José Socrates, defended in this House by Mr Marcos Sá, the calculation of income based on gross income and according to the Law of the Condition of Resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u127	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u128	This is the case to say "Well preached Friar Thomas". Right, Mrs. Helena Roseta? You know very well that the supported lease scheme does not define any own income-purchasing system. She knows very well that this scheme refers everything to the law of the condition of resources, of the authorship of the José Socrates government, where income is assessed and applied as liquid. Let us ask, then, what leads the Socialist Party and Antonio Costa to change their position now and to have two weights and two measures. We well know, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, we want here to recognise the coherence of the radical left parties, because, despite the proposals that they defend are conditional on hasty political options, they do not, however, define the regime applicable until any amendments to the law are brought into force, since the previous diplomas have been repealed by this. It seems to us, therefore, that this bill creates a legislative void that only protects abusers. In conclusion, Mr President, we regret that, with a further announcement of reversal now to the law of supported income, this Socialist Party Government returns to the old Socialist Party of Assistanceism where the state can everything, promises and all pay until the bill arrives. From there we all pay! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u129	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The supported lease, which we are discussing today, is a matter of greatest importance, because it involves not only constitutional rights as, and more importantly, questions of dignity of the life of many Portuguese and many Portuguese. Therefore, being a subject that, while ideologically, has different solutions and paths, it should be avoided to the fullest extent its excessive bias and seek with the greatest political consensus possible to find just, equitable solutions to the many problems that this issue contains. The CDS has always accompanied with particular concern the process concerning the application of the supported income regime, having had very varied initiatives in order to introduce legislative improvements that would better guarantee the needs of the residents, as well as of the owners, as well as the need for the recovery and rehabilitation of these dwellings. We have always recognized that they are not easy-to-resolve issues in the light of the realities underlying a large majority of the tenants, who, for many years, have not suffered any increase in monthly income and have seen their value-fixing regime dispersed by various diplomas with various applications by different owners, adding to the degradation that has occurred in this housing park due to the lack of maintenance and restoration works. For all this it was approved in 2014 Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December, which introduced important changes in the regulation of supported lease. Thus, there was only one regime applicable to the whole social housing, a new formula for calculating the value of the most favourable income for tenants was defined, the value of the income was determined according to income, composition and size of the family and also promoted the financial sustainability of social housing neighborhoods thus ensuring its future preservation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS, in this area, advocates the need for a social elevator guided by social justice criteria that promotes the possibility of the State and other public entities to respond to the needs of families in a situation of greater economic vulnerability for the period of time in which such needs occur, ensuring access to housing, income accessible to families, in agreement with the right to legally and constitutionally consecrated housing. So we are against any initiative that simply suspends the application of the supported lease scheme, as the CFP proposes, because that was exactly what happened for years and we can see where that has taken us. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u131	We also have doubts about solutions made in a hurry and without any kind of deeper study.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u132	To send people to the street requires a study!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u133	Thus, in view of the fact that the current law on lease supported came into force only 11 months ago, we believe that the effects of its application should be analyzed and studied so that the law can, in a consistent way, be improved and adapted to national reality. We therefore present this initiative that recommends that the Government undertake a thorough assessment of the current situation with regard to the application of the housing-supported lease scheme, in coordination and collaboration with the competent authorities, and that, without this evaluation, it is not possible to make a real analysis of this whole problem in order to find effective solutions to this important issue. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u134	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Helena Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would also like to welcome the associations and committees of residents who are present in this debate and who are following us, because if this subject of supported income has come to this House of the Republic many times—and I remember that since 2011 there have been 31 legislative initiatives—it was not just because the various parties have different understandings, it is because there is a struggle of residents behind the demand that the law be more just and that the difficult situations are taken into account. I would like to say to Mrs PSD that it has been to find some contradictions, which is very easy to answer. First of all, I should look at this house. The Assembly of the Republic, on 30 September 20011, adopted Resolution No 142 / 2011, in which the Government was recommended that income be based on net income in respect of supported income. however, in the same year and month, a few days earlier, it had approved Resolution No 153 / 2011, in which the government was asked to pay the income according to gross income. Well, Mrs Deputy, if there are also no contradictions in the deliberations of the legislative body. That's what we need to avoid. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Listen to me till the end. That's what we need to avoid. The positions which the Prime Minister here took last Friday took on them in full harmony with what he did as mayor, and he said so. The City Hall of Lisbon, where I had the occasion and the honour to manage for four years the estate of social housing — 23 000 fires — is the largest social landlord in the country and in 2010 suspended the application of the law of income supported by the contracts in force, because it was shooting at inappropriate values. That is what we kept in the House of Lisbon and that is what the then President of the House of Lisbon did. That is why he is sensitive to the issue of gross income and net income, and that is why he brought here the commitment that we will review the law based on net income rather than gross income. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of poor families, it is not even the problem of taxes that weigh, it is the problem of incomes that are not permanent, it is the problem of taking as income something that happened in a year and that the following year no longer exists. And families can't face a permanent income on account of income that no longer exist! This is what we have to see. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u136	All right! Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that we have tabled a draft resolution recommending that the Government take immediate action with regard to IHRU. The IHRU has only 10 % of the country's social housing, the chambers have the rest. Cameras have to be heard! The gentlemen. Members want the government to make an assessment of the law, and I think it is very good to do so, but I am telling you right now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that Law No 81 / 2014 is only being fulfilled in two or three municipalities and by IHRU. The other municipalities are not applying it, in fact, they could not even apply it because the deadline for entry into force...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u138	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u139	It's true, yes. I know what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u140	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u141	It's not a lie, sir! Don't say that because I know what I'm talking about. Mr President, listen to the end and don't make me spend the time I have. There are general principles that we must safeguard. Mrs. Members, I have had the honour to be a Constituent Member and to vote in this House, moreover, to contribute to the drafting of Article 65. the Constitution, concerning the right to housing. We are far from being able to achieve all families. There are two essential income commitments supported by the Prime Minister here: net income and non-gross income to make the calculation formula; suspension of waste due to economic deficiency. That is absolutely fundamental! It is necessary to move on other matters, including the rate of effort, the reduction of income, the works that are not done, the role of the authorities, and all this is work to be done in committee. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there are no public housing programmes by the government and by the authorities that respond to the demand, the existing social housing is much less than the need exists. Today, we no longer have barracks and people say that there is no problem because there are no more barracks. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot of hidden problems, there's a lot of misery, there's a lot of homeless families, there's a lot of work to do. That is why I end my speech by calling on all the banks here to get the various initiatives they have put down on this subject to the respective committee to work on the specialty so that there are no contradictions, as in the past, and above all in order to achieve convergence. There is a great hope of these associations and committees of residents who look to the Assembly of the Republic to listen to what they are asking for this time. Let us not be frustrated by this hope! Let us work together so that we can bring to the House a text that satisfies the claims of the poorest families and families who have been fighting for this cause for many years. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u142	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, this debate is not about reversal, but a new lease regime supported by what is essential. That's what we want. The rental scheme supported in force does not fulfil its function which would naturally be to support families with greater difficulty in accessing the housing market. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the residents who have fought for their dignity! They want to pay an income, but they want an income that is fair and not the continuation of injustice that is the extension of this income regime supported in force. This scheme provides for income for these families to be calculated from the gross income and not from the net income available. For these low-income families, it comes in for the definition of income — see what this has to do with strangers — also what they already pay in taxes and contributions to social security or even small occasional or precarious incomes. In other words, what remains for essential expenses of food, health, clothing or education is even shorter. This, in addition to injustice, is inhuman and must be changed! The incomes resulting from the application of this scheme are unfair incomes that do not support families with this type of deficiency and that should, yes, support them. But it does not stay here: this regime is paying attention to the dignity of the residents of the social neighbourhoods. It is noted that these residents, when it comes to evictions, are subject to unacceptable inequality, because a simple administrative action is sufficient to consume the eviction. This law facilitates evictions, protects the already weakened populations, placing them as decision-makers themselves who promote the eviction. This is unworthy! Instead of supporting these families, the regime in force protects and discriminates. Economic shortage is a reality and there can be no evictions without alternatives to housing for these people, for these families. In addition, the law stimulates the prejudice and stigmatization of these people. On the other hand, the right — the PSD and the CDS-PP — has come to this lease regime supported all its prejudice about poverty. The mechanisms of expulsion from their homes for those who, by their efforts, have achieved better incomes only serve to make social neighborhoods in poverty ghettos. This is absolutely unacceptable! And it is unacceptable that there are fires in social housing without conditions of comfort, safety and health, as was evident in the many testimonies presented in the recent hearing that the Left Block promoted on the lease supported. It is necessary for the tenant to be compensated by performing works on his own initiative or by lowering the income, in case of persistence of this deresponsibility. The bill presented by the Left Block proposes the amendment of the rental law supported to make this regime more fair, to return dignity to these citizens and to entrust the State, by constitutional determination, to ensure the right to housing, to promote a policy aimed at establishing a system of income compatible with family income. That is our determination and that is why we want to change the supported lease regime. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u144	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the Portuguese Communist Party for taking the initiative to schedule this matter, because I think it is very timely. The residents and committees of residents who are watching our work today, as well as other people who are not here but who are also affected by the supported income regime, will certainly feel how important it is to be here today to take a step in response to what they have claimed before the Assembly of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed important that the Assembly of the Republic, as we have already said many times, when faced with a problem, when it realizes that there is a problem, solves the sleeves to work to solve that problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u146	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u147	And, in fact, the supported income regime, as it is in effect today, is a problem and affects families. Mr CDS said: 'Ah, but this regime only came into force 11 months ago. You know, Mr. Deputies, there are people who say this: « He has come into force 11 months ago and never ends again! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Because you are not seeing this in the eyes of those who feel in the skin, let's say so, the regime that is established. The people who are affected by this regime consider that there is a long time and that it must urgently end it. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, promote a calculation of the value of income on the basis of what, in fact, people do not take or do not have is not fair. It's not worth making any big assessments. We all realize that it is very fairer that this calculation is made on the basis of net income and not on the basis of gross income. As we also realize that housing is housing. Housing has to be a space of comfort, of well-being, so that people can also create roots for a particular community where they enter. That is extremely important! Housing is not boxes where people get stuck, housing has to be seen in an individual and family component, it is true, but also in a social component. Working to facilitate evictions, as this supported income regime does, is absolutely unfair. And if we are faced here with obvious injustices, then we have to work to transform them into evident justices. The PSD deputy said the PSD left work done. It's true, but it's done wrong, it's not generous, it's aggressive. The honourable Member says no, but the people who are victims of this regime say yes. What are we in, Mrs. Member? What are we staying on? [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u148	Talk to people!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u149	Do you know what one of your big problems was? It's just that you don't listen to people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u151	You live in a theoretical policy that serves a certain ideology.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u152	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u153	I'm done now, Mr. President. When the banks speak, you open your ears soon, you hear everything and act; when the concrete people, the citizens, the people speak, you don't want to hear. Fortunately, today you are no longer a majority in the Assembly of the Republic! [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u154	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is unbelievable what we have heard in this debate by the PSD and the CDS. Mrs Emília Santos said it had been a generous reform. So, implement a regime that maintains an injustice with very high income values, which does not take into account the real economic condition of families, which leads these families to leave their homes, where they lived for decades — 20 years, 30 years... — is it generous, Mrs Member? [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u156	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u157	Did the honourable Member say that the law has fulfilled its objectives? I understand that from the point of view of the PSD and the CDS, it has actually met the objectives because they believe that housing should not be ensured for all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u158	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u159	We don't really have that perspective. We understand that housing should be for everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u160	I would ask you to finish, Madam Commissioner, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u161	I shall conclude by saying, Mr President, that the interventions mentioned here and the manner in which they were said were indeed inhuman and cruel, taking into account the impact on the lives of these residents and all those who are in social housing. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say the following: as an immediate and urgent proposal, we propose that the articles of the current law be suspended in relation to the calculation of the value of income and the discharge. These are the priority aspects of this injustice that this Assembly of the Republic has to stop so that these residents can sleep at rest and know that the next day they will not lose their house. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u162	Mrs. Members, concluded the general discussion of the projects of lein. 108 and 122 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) in conjunction with draft resolutions Nos 114, 119 and 126 / XIII ( 1 ). a ), we move to the last point of our agenda, which consists of the general discussion of the projects of lein. 91 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March ( Law consolidating legislation on the rights and duties of the health services user ) ( CDS-PP ) and 95 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March ( Law consolidating the legislation on the rights and duties of the health service user ( PSD ) together with draft resolution No 125 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defends the regulation of the right to accompany pregnant women during all stages of labor ( PS ). To present the draft law of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Galriça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This will be necessarily a brief intervention, since we are discussing legislative initiatives that will meet the objective of humanizing the moment of birth which, by itself, and I believe that for all of us, is a worthy and socially relevant issue. After a debate held weeks ago, following a petition presented here, the CDS presented a bill aimed at clarifying the application of Law No. 15 / 2014 with regard to the rights and duties of health service users. We understand that pregnant women who are programmed and unadded cesareans must not be prevented from being accompanied by a significant person, especially by the father of the child who is about to be born. Despite some controversy that arose after the presentation of our proposal, we understand that this practice in nothing affects the maintenance of asepticism with good rules of surgical practice that all health institutions, whether public or private, should observe. What we clearly want is that our initiative, accompanied by others, PSD and PS, can translate into more and better health care, better support for maternity and that it guarantees the humanization of care activity, in the certainty that what is fundamental to us: that people are even at the center of the health system. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u164	To present the PSD bill, you have the floor of Mrs. Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law submitted by the PSD and which we are debating today is the first amendment to Law No. 15 / 2014, a diploma that came to consolidate legislation, including five laws, on the rights and duties of the health services user. The document submitted by the PSD meets the object of petition No 513 / XII ( 4. a ), which we have already discussed here on 6 January and thus meeting the claim of more than 4000 petitioners who have subscribed to it. But go beyond that, ladies and gentlemen. Members: our initiative is also in line with information from the Directorate-General for Health, which brings some clarity to the definition of how pregnant women should be monitored during childbirth, as provided for in Article 16. that of the Law, and this follow-up may only exceptionally not be carried out in the cases provided for in Article 17. o. It is precisely in this norm that our bill involves, determining that « Monitoring may exceptionally not be effective when, in serious clinical situations, it is expressed and justifiedly determined by the obstetrician. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And it is also clear that « Monitoring may not be exercised at the premises of the units, when the presence of the companion questions the guarantee of privacy invoked by other parturients. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And finally, we intend to add paragraph 4 to the standard in question, clearly determining that the rules for the exercise of the right to follow-up, when delivery takes place as an operating block, should be fixed by door. It means all this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, where the monitoring referred to is not clinically unconsolable and the facilities permit it, must be guaranteed the right to the presence of the accompanying woman during childbirth, also in situations where it is carried out using cesarean, provided that, of course, that is the desire of the parturient. When the rules are not clear, it is up to us, ladies and gentlemen. Members, clarify them and do not refer for further regulation. The right of pregnant women to follow up during childbirth is much more than a simple and exclusive right of them, it is also a right of the family, a right of the father and the child who will be born and that is what we want to see safeguarded today with this amendment we propose. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u166	To present the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, Mr António Sales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Much has indeed evolved in recent years the health conditions in Portugal. More and better hospitals; operating blocks with excellent conditions; health professionals, doctors, nurses, technical assistants, trained in a high degree of demand and with great professional preparation; health professionals who, even affected by a deep devaluation and disqualification of their work in the last four years, maintain a huge professional shine and put, above all, the well-being of their patients, with spirit and mission spirit. Obstetrics, despite the other medical specialties, have been undergoing great progress throughout the history of humanity, both in primary prevention, and in maternal follow-up and neonatal intervention. The work of delivery in a hospital environment has, since the 20th century, brought to it decreasing numbers of maternal and infant mortality, either speaking of normal birth, or of dystocical delivery. The rules for control and prevention of hospital infection and asepsis, as well as protocols and standards of clinical guidance, have also improved the indicators mentioned above. Although it is born less in Portugal, we can say today that it is born better, with more quality and safety. The vast majority of newborns receive continuous medical follow-up and, although in the last four years maternity has been closed, family planning consultations have been terminated and support for the fight against infertility is scarce, we see in the current national health system a clear and obvious reality of achievements achieved and a window of opportunity for improvement. This country, founded on ideals of freedom and equity, cannot be used as dubious laws that call into question access equal to any existing response. when we were born in a country with ideological bases based on equality, the moment of birth could not be a moment of discrimination, either for the child, for the father or for the mother. The demanding preparation of professionals, both from a technical and human point of view, has also improved and improved care, both in quality and in safety. This was the determining point that highlighted the right of women to be mothers and the right of pregnant women to feel accompanied at the time of delivery, regardless of their typology. The technical advance of the hospital space has improved in such a way that it is not known today that there can still be facilities that serve as an excuse for the non-authorized monitoring of parturients. This would be an embarrassment 30 years ago, but unthinkable in today's world.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u168	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u169	The current legislation, being less clear in some aspects, can serve as a scapegoat so that parents and mothers do not enjoy their rights — they have the right to be accompanied, they have the right to be present and participate in a magical moment that influences both the family dynamics and the relationship with the newborn, this moment referred to by some specialists as a key moment to create binding links important to the rest of life. In order not to confuse the operating block with non-consensual space and the interpretation of the law is subject to several different evaluations, it is proposed by the Directorate-General of Health, when consulted, a clarification of the letter of law on the subject, so that there are no erroneous interpretations. It also refers to the need to be comprehensive to the rules on protective equipment and aseptics; that it be clear the need for abandonment/ discontinuance of the procedure, if peri-operative complications arise; that there is also an explicit informed consent by the interveners; and that the issue is defined by legislative determination, so that it is not conditional on this procedure. In the form of a response to petition No 513 / XII ( 4. ( a ), which proposes amendments to Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March 2014 and refers to the follow-up of pregnant women during labor, in particular in scheduled cesareans, and considering that: there are no external conditionalities which prevent the option of follow-up in medical intervention ; preventive conditions are met for the risk of infection of pregnant women and newborns, as well as any other peri-operative complications affecting mother and child safety ; that the persons participating in the process are aware that at any time and due to unscheduled issues, they may have to leave the procedure and that there is informed consent of all actors in the process, comes the Socialist Party through its draft resolution No 125 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) to recommend to the Government that the legislation of Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March 2014 should be amended to clarify the right to follow up pregnant women during all stages of labor, irrespective of their type. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u170	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have discussed three legislative initiatives. Two of these amendments are made to Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March – Law consolidating legislation on the rights and duties of the public service user – and a third is a recommendation to the Government. They all have in common the fact that they affect the follow-up of pregnant women during labor. The adoption in 1985 of the law providing for the follow-up of pregnant women during labor was a very significant step in the advancement of user rights and, in particular, of women's rights. in this law, it was then consecrated the right of pregnant women to be accompanied, by whom it indicated, during childbirth. the law also provided for the conditions for the exercise of follow-up, provided for conditions of exception in which such follow-up may not occur, among which serious clinical situations and in the case of facilities are not consistent with the presence of the companion or with the guarantee of privacy invoked by other parturients. The initiatives now under consideration seek regulation of the law in order to clarify the rules for the follow-up of pregnant women in childbirth and, essentially, in cesarean sections. It should be recalled that, even recently, this subject was discussed during the discussion of petition No 513 / XII ( 4. ( a). From the end of the 1970s until today, the CFP has been intervening in its institutional intervention through a very broad set of legislative initiatives on the rights of motherhood and paternity, having as guiding principle the protection of the social function of motherhood and paternity, enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Like the rights of motherhood and paternity and also the right to health of SNS users in general and women in particular, the CFP has for many years defended the consecration and enforcement of these rights. He has therefore put forward proposals to ensure that all material and human conditions are ensured so that this can be achieved. with regard to pregnant women, the PCP advocates ensuring access to maternal health, adequate and quality clinical follow-up, as well as all necessary health care, and, of course, to follow-up in delivery. Despite this principle, we believe that this matter must be regulated, so that the rules and best clinical practices are ensured and guarded. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u172	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right to follow up is a right of pregnant women at all stages of their pregnancy. As has already been said, we have been discussing this subject during the discussion of a petition. The Left Block believes that it is necessary to clarify the current legislation that guarantees follow-up to pregnant women, as well as to regulate this right to follow-up, particularly in the case of the need for use of a cesarean section. This regulation should take into account that these are complex, specific situations with great variability between themselves. For all purposes, when we speak of a cesarean, we are talking about surgery, so follow-up must be ensured, but it must also be ensured that follow-up is not "conflict", for example, with the need to reduce the risks of hospital infection, and it must not be "conflict" with the health and well-being of women and babies. Portugal has a rate of infection contracted in hospital which is insistently high, so the regulation should say in which cases and how follow-up may exist. We also know that Portugal has a very high rate of use of cesareans, which is, in fact, a poor indicator of obstetric health quality. Therefore, the regulation should also reflect what the objectives and the national strategy are for reducing the rate of cesareans. In short, we believe that the regulation should ensure this balance between the right to follow-up, the need to reduce the risk of hospital infection and also the improvement of the indicators of obstetric health quality. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u174	For a second intervention, you have the floor of Mrs. Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I confess that I did not understand very well what the final position of the CFP and BE is then. They will certainly follow the initiatives we are discussing today. With regard to the draft resolution presented here by Mr António Sales, I must say that, by withdrawing the last part of his speech, the PSD agrees at all with what Mr Here has brought us. But Mr President, the DGS information that you have quoted says that there is a need for clarification of the law so that there are no «dubious laws», as you mentioned. However, if we regulate or propose to the Government that it regulates for the future and if we do not clarify what the law does not allow today to arrive with an express conclusion, then Mr President, we do not resolve what the petitioners here have asked us to do. And we, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we really want to see is safeguarding the right to follow up on pregnant women, because that is what the petitioners asked us to do and that is why we presented the bill. With this draft resolution presented to us by the PS, we do not solve the problem. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-04.u176	Mrs. Members, concluded the general discussion of the projects of lein.o 91 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) and 95 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PSD ), in conjunction with draft resolution No 125 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PS ), we finish today's work. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow for 10 a.m. on the following agenda: from the first item, there is the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein. 15 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — establishes the principle of non- privatization of the water sector by amending Law No 58 / 2005 of 29 December ( Approving the Water Law ), with amendments introduced by Decree-Law No 60 / 2012 of 14 March 2012 and Decree-Law No 130 / 2012 of 22 June ( The Greens ) and 116 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Prevents the mercantilization of public water supply, waste water sanitation and urban solid waste management ( CFP ). The joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 120 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — The fourth amendment is made to the Advertising Code, approved by Decree-Law No 330 / 90 of 23 October, imposing restrictions on advertising to minors of certain foodstuffs and beverages ( PS ), 118 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulation of the advertising of food products for children and young people ( PAN) and 123 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates advertising to food products addressed to children and young people by amending the Advertising Code ( The Greens ). of the third point, is the joint discussion of draft resolutions 21 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures on academic beaches ( BE), 122 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen measures on academic practice ( CDS-PP ) and 124 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to the Government in the context of academic practice ( PS ). Finally, the joint debate will take place on draft resolutions 53/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent measures for the creation of additional vacancies in the 2015 Medical Hospital Competition ( PCP ), 123 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend the rules and conditions for access to specific training in medicine ( PS ) and 128 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures guaranteeing access to specialized training for all physicians ( BE ). There will also be regular votes at the end of the debate. I wish the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the continuation of a good afternoon and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 15 minutes.]]
