ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. Law No 39 / XIII was introduced ( 2 ). ( a ) — Procedures at 13. the amendment to the Labour Code and the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 in its current wording, in order to strengthen the protection regime in parenthood ( Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ), which falls to 10. the Commission. The projects of lein.os 349 / XIII were also entered ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the status of the police status ( CFP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 350 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo, extending the period of protection up to 25 years ( Third amendment to the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo, approved by Law No 147 / 99 of 1 September, amended by Laws No 142 / 2015 of 8 September, and No 31 / 2003 of 22 August ) ( PCP ), 351 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Public Manager, repealing the exemption scheme established by Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, and clarifying the scope of their reporting obligations ( CDS-PP ), 352 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Public Manager, repealing the exemption scheme established by Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, and establishing remuneration limits ( CDS-PP ) and 353 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Affirms the need for urgent regulation of parental responsibilities in situations of domestic violence ( NAP ). Finally, draft resolutions 557 / XIII ( 2 ) were introduced. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make inquiries to the European Union in order to promote the clear mention, on the labels of honey, of the country or countries where honey is produced ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 558 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the performance of judicial support in the context of domestic violence crimes and regulation of parental responsibilities and verify the need for the establishment of a multidisciplinary team to support the judicial system ( PAN) and 559 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures to reduce hospital infections ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u3	Mrs. Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy shall first of all include an up-to-date debate under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, required by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party on waste imported from Italy to Setúbal. To open the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u4	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, Mrs and Mr. Members: The Greens have marked this debate today because they believe that there are answers that are not being given to the country and that must be provided. We have not come here to make any accusations, to ask questions, and we would like to get concrete answers. Mr Minister, perhaps the starting point is this: for many years the Greens have denounced the path that has been pursued by various governments — the PS, the PSD, the CDS, in order to make some sectors in the environment a real business area, i.e. a lucrative sector, and the waste area was one of them. And when we bear in mind that the great objective is not of an environmental nature, but of an economic nature, there is something that begins to overlap, i.e. when waste treatment is guided by the word 'profit' there is something that begins to overlap. I did not even admire anything, Mr Minister, that in this area of the cross-border movement of waste, and in particular of our part of the import of waste, there was even brutal competition between some of the companies which manage waste disposal, treatment and disposal infrastructures, such as the CITRI ( Integrated Industrial Waste Treatment Centre, SA ) or the Secil. I was not surprised that there was any competition at that level. But, Mr Minister, what we know—and this is a particular case which has come to reveal the accusation that the Greens have made many years ago—is that the RTP has come to denounce a large, relevant set of almost 2700 tonnes of waste that had arrived in Setúbal, to CITR, from Italy, that many more tons would be planned to arrive in Portugal and, Mr Minister, soon at the time, the Greens addressed a written question to the Government in order to obtain some information. Specifically, we wondered whether the Ministry of the Environment confirmed this information, what amount of waste was involved, what follow-up was that the national authorities had made and what entities, what analyses had been done and what results would have been obtained from these analyses, what kind of waste was being treated, what the final intended destination, whether it had been given authorization to receive more waste from Italy, as indicated by the information, what quantity, if so, what reason. Mr Minister, it has been nearly a month and so far we have not received a response from the Government. And because the Greens consider that the House has several figures, several instruments, various mechanisms for the exercise of its function of control and supervision of the Government, we intend to mark this current debate so that this answer will come in a more rapid manner. We remember, Mr Minister, that at a meeting held in the same Chamber in the context of the State budget assessment, several questions were asked about this matter of waste from Italy to Setúbal. The Minister said that he was comfortable on this issue and that, moreover, he had not even spoken because it was a perfectly recurrent, normal operation. The Greens warned that, at the time, even for recurrent and normal operations, transparency and information are absolutely necessary. The Minister says there is no problem, the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ) says that it has relied on the analyses made by the Italian authorities and considered that there is no need to do anything more rigorously to receive the waste, and IGAMAOT (General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Planning of the Territory), by the way, felt that there were reasons to do the analysis, carried out these analyses and detected possible irregularities. Doubts were raised and, for the same reason, the waste was retained, suspended in relation to its destination and the normal process which should be used there. Now, it is in the hands of the company, in this particular case of CITR, the obligation to provide further clarification regarding the outcome of these analyses. This is the information we have about what's coming to the public. I wanted the Minister to confirm all this, to say whether it is so, or not, what is going on. We as Members must have this information directly from the Government. That is why Mr Minister, a number of questions must be answered. How many wastes have come to Setúbal from Italy? Are more wastes from the same country of origin authorised or not? What kind of treatment or destination will you be subject to? Is there any sorting of these wastes or not? Are some going for recycling? Are they all going to land? What's it like? What kind of waste is it about, and what is its classification? What was the result of the analyses made by IGAMAOT? When is the waste imported into Portugal not analysed to samples of this waste? Isn't that a normal procedure? Is it or not? Mr. Minister, the APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) should have a removal of all imported and exported waste and the destination of the imported waste in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u5	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u6	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. I just wanted to say the following: we, Members of the Assembly of the Republic, urgently need to be aware of an APA file that accounts for all the waste that is imported into Portugal. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u7	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u8	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, Mrs and Mr. Members: The theme which the Greens Ecologist Party has chosen for the marking of this current debate deals with a subject which we have also been following. at the end of October, following news from the public about the importation of 2700 tonnes of waste from Italy and destined for CITRI in Setúbal, we were the first political force to address a question to Mr. Minister of the Environment...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u9	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u10	... on the contours of this operation, asks that to which the Government has not given any reply until now. Continued action, in the context of discussion of the State budget for 2017, we took advantage of the circumstance—and we were the only political force to do so—...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u11	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u12	... to question again the Minister of the Environment on the subject and, very specifically, on his silence in the light of the news that, from our point of view, deserved a formal clarification from the Government. The Minister did not flee to the question and was peremptory, saying: "My silence has no meaning, because this is a banal operation and, as such, is being managed by the Ministry of the Environment normally". We are, as we have achieved, committed to this debate, but we want this to be a serious, rigorous, enlightening and clarifying debate. And we would also like this to be a broader and more comprehensive discussion, a discussion that goes beyond the geographical limits of the Setúbal district itself. This is because the waste management activity that is flown across the national territory involves waste companies, involves recycling plants and involves authorities, as we all know, and generates more than 500 million euros annually. For many years we've cared for garbage, for many years we've exported garbage. We import and export banal waste and import and export hazardous waste. The import of garbage has nothing to do with the privatization of EGF (General Development Company ), as suggested by a certain left. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] We import garbage for the most varied reasons, including, for example, how to obtain raw materials for industry. But we also export trash. in the last five years, we exported 307 000 tonnes of waste. We exported garbage to Germany, Denmark, Spain, the United States of America, France, the Netherlands, Morocco and Sweden. In 2015, of the waste we exported, 58 % are hazardous waste that we have difficulty in valuing and even eliminating. Therefore, we are those who argue that environmental issues must be looked at globally and not from a state to a state. For this reason, we also do not see those who, for example, defend the prohibition of cross-border waste movements. We will continue to follow this matter. But our discussion cannot be confined to the import of waste from Italy, or from any other country, destined for the CITRI of Setúbal, or any other environmental equipment in our country—in fact, it would be strange for us to limit our debate to that area, and I say why. It would be strange because, at that time, we would ask ourselves the following question: then, the 80 000 tonnes of waste that we import annually to burn in cements should not deserve our attention? So, the co-incineration of hazardous industrial waste, in the century, in the Natural Park of Arrabida, in Setúbal, or in the Summit of Souxelas, in Coimbra, should not also deserve our concern and attention? So, the 46 000 tonnes of hazardous waste that we import annually should not deserve our attention? We think so. That is why this debate should be wider. And our willingness for this debate, without excluding the debate that brings us here, is total. [[PSD applause.]] [[Green Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u13	Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is recurrent in this House, through various regulatory formats, to debate the waste problem, which indicates that, at various times, waste policies are our concern. This current debate can even make sense, because it is imported waste and therefore there must be close control of its origin and type of waste, which was exactly what happened in this case, in which the Portuguese authorities carried out an inspection to obtain their information. And they obtained: they inspected the documentation for the authorisation of imports, the origin of waste, the type of waste; they gathered the information necessary to know whether the recycled waste had previously been subject, before boarding, to the mechanical and biological treatment, a condition necessary to be imported; several analyses were made, the result of which showed that the dissolved organic carbon parameters were above the normal values, it is true—but these values only demonstrate the existence of excess organic material, and here what was needed was whether the landfill where the waste was to be deposited met met the conditions necessary for its treatment. The General Inspection, as a precautionary measure, and according to the values found, decided and determined that the waste for storage should be retained until more comprehensive and stricter analyses exist to find the best solution for this case. from our point of view, the Portuguese authorities have done well within the rules and legislation in force. And we are sure that, depending on the results obtained, they will find the best environmental solution to solve the problems related to these wastes. We obviously rely on the mechanisms available for the implementation of such operations, whether they are imported or exported. We trust the Portuguese authorities and their guardians, who have the responsibility to allow and authorize their deposition on landings prepared for this. We will, of course, continue to follow this subject without dramatism and without causing any kind of alarm so that the solution found can be the best, best for Portugal, the best for Portuguese and, fundamentally, the best for the environment. But, Minister, I would like to tell you, in your final speech, whether there are any new data justifying an alarm—which can even be considered a social alarm—around an operation which, from the point of view of Portuguese law and European law, is an absolutely normal operation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u15	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has become public that the Portuguese and Italian environmental authorities have concluded an agreement for the dispatch of 20 000 tonnes of waste, allegedly low-risk, to a landfill, the CITRI, Integrated Industrial Waste Treatment Centre, in the Setúbal region. We all know that the first 2700 tonnes have already arrived in Portugal, and these have been put into quarantine until the results of the analyses carried out on waste, by the imposition of the General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Land Planning. Mrs. Members, Mr Minister, who are known to have been the results of these analyses, were made public the existence of a parameter present in waste, dissolved organic carbon, which exceeded the permitted levels of danger at much, which is why the Government has prohibited the processing of waste until the actual situation of waste risks has been clarified. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, this episode has proved the legitimacy of the concerns of the population and of the authorities of the region, who have always opposed the construction of the landfill of CITRI, the environmental implications and the level of public health that activities of this nature can cause, mainly when located at few meters of an environmental heritage, as is the case of the Natural Reserve of the Estuário do Sado. Mr Minister, I leave you with three questions: in view of the decision to prevent the treatment of waste, what are the next steps to take? if it is concluded that these wastes cannot be treated in CITR, what will be the resolution to be taken by the government? Finally, Minister, has the CITRI Committee been informed and heard about the treatment of these wastes? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u17	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, from the CDS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of the Environment, Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature: There is no doubt that this debate constitutes an important, timely and timely discussion of this very important issue. Moreover, following the news that came to the public, which caused us great concern, both because of contradictions, because of the lack of a prompt response from the directly responsible entities, and also because of the lack of an enlightening answer from the Minister of the Environment, when he was confronted with the import of about 3000 tonnes of waste from Italy for processing in a company based in Setúbal, the CDS put several questions in writing to the Minister, but until today we have not got any answer from his side, which increases our concern and also increases our concern. This lack of response from policymakers puts even more reservations in this whole process. We know that the import of waste will have been authorised by the competent authority, the Portuguese Environment Agency, and its import to Portugal resulted in an international competition won by CITRI. however, of the information we received through the media, APA did not inform the General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Territory of the import of these wastes, nor did it carry out any inspection on its arrival in Portugal. This inspection carried out by IGAMAOT will only have happened after the social communication has reported the case and, as it is known, the analysis of the wastes subsequently carried out, with regard to the dissolved organic carbon parameter, raises many reservations to this entity, which will have ordered that the wastes are not, for the time being, placed on the ground. However, Mr Minister, waste management is an activity that must be carried out in accordance with all existing safety rules and that must be subject to close monitoring and monitoring by the responsible authorities in order to improve the efficiency of its use and the protection of the environment and human health. We therefore disagree with the Minister for the Environment when he says that this waste import process is a banal process and that this kind of waste does not raise concerns. What has actually happened is nothing of the sort; what has happened is that these wastes actually raise concerns. If not, why would IGAMAOT, after the analyses, have ordered the company to provide further clarification and why would it have forbidden the waste in question to be deposited on land? What is at stake here is not only the preservation of the environment, but also — and above all — the health of the population. There is no need for alarms, but there is a need for serious concern and renewed attention by the Ministry of the Environment. If there is insufficient means to analyse all waste entering the country, the Ministry must provide the competent authorities with the resources because it does not appear reasonable or prevented to rely, as was the case, on the analyses carried out in the country of origin. National authorities should always carry out the necessary analyses in their supervisory function. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the environment is an issue that has gained relevance in political discourse, and that is to be praised. But we need more than speeches, we need more than words, we already have an unpleasant memory by signal, of facilitating in the past that have led to very serious situations, as is the case with S. Pedro da Cova, in Gondomar. We do not want to regret it again. We want to prevent this case and all future cases, and that is what we demand for protection. Therefore, Mr Minister, we are awaiting today the answers that you must have to give us for all of these concerns, and which are also of all Portuguese, in particular those who live in the Setúbal district. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u19	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u20	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: As much as it disagrees on the right, and to Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira in particular, this is even an exemplary history of privatization policy in the waste sector, and it is an exemplary history in origin as it is also in destination.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u21	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u22	It is an exemplary history of origin because this import stems from the inability of the region of Campania in Italy to deal with this management, as a result of the privatization of the waste sector in that region. It is the fact that waste management in that region has been captured by private interests which has caused the chaos to be installed in the sector and left Portugal to import these wastes. And it is also an exemplary history of privatization in the destination, Portugal, because the private business here is running smoothly and decreases public attention to each of these imports and at each of these moments. That is why APA has given its faith in what the Italian authorities have told it and has given up any verification, until the alarm of the social communication has sounded, as has already been said by the honourable Member who spoke before me — at least that is the news that so far exists. And it was necessary for this alarm to be given to verify the real nature of these wastes, which were initially presented as banal and household waste. It is therefore necessary to clarify three aspects at this time: one concerning the present and others concerning the past and the future, in this matter. With regard to the present, it is necessary to ensure that this waste is returned in case of failure to meet those who were the requirements and in case of not being what was initially announced and for which an international competition has been held. We want it to be explained why, at an early stage, APA did not inform IGAMAOT and merely put faith in what the Italian authorities were saying. And, in view of the verification of the existence of these organic matter indices in waste, it is necessary to return them as soon as possible in order to avoid any contamination. With regard to the past, it is also important to verify previous business of importing such waste, in particular waste that, at the time of its importation, has been presented as a banal and household waste, as urban solid waste, because these are these wastes and are those guarantees given by the Italian authorities that are under suspicion today, but which may have been given yesterday by other authorities in other countries and on which the same faith may have been made this time. So we need to investigate the past, investigate how these companies acted, how they mattered. In particular Sapec, of which the former Secretary of State for the Environment, of the PSD, is administrator, has accounts for this matter. With regard to the future, standards should be tightened. The import of waste should not be considered as a central business in this sector and, in specific cases where it occurs, strict supervision should be ensured. It is with this reality that we will always confront ourselves, and that is why supervision is so important today, because privatization of the waste sector in Europe, whether in Italy or Portugal, makes public surveillance and the responsibility of the authorities in charge of this verification a priority, that is a citizen requirement. It is therefore very important that this surveillance was active and that it would ensure, in good time, that the necessary investigations were actually carried out. Like the other parties, who have already given questions to the government on this matter in time, we look forward to knowing Mr. Minister's answers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u23	For an intervention, Mr Minister for the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am grateful for the questions put and start by saying that, according to numbers on the APA website, with its own link to allow for all information collected on the import and export of waste in Portugal in 2015 were imported about 2 million tons of waste and exported about 1 million. Many of them serve as raw materials. from my experience in front of the port of Leixões, I remember seeing a lot of glass helmet from England that goes to Barbosa & Almeida to be transformed into bottles and to see a lot of scraps from various origins that was transported to the National Siderurgia, in Maia, also to transform into steel ashamed for construction. in this case in particular, replying to the first question put, 40 000 tonnes were allowed to be imported into three different vessels over time from the beginning of October if they wish to know. Some 2700 tonnes have already arrived, I repeat, in three different ships and in containers. European legislation is not only very restrictive on these matters, as it is in fact seeking to promote the proper destination of waste. Therefore, in the search for a better solution in another country, which is not necessarily the country of its production, attempts to define rules that, in a very controlled way, allow this passage of waste at borders. I give you an example: in Portugal, there is no place to treat the batteries and therefore all the batteries that are collected must be exported in order to be able to search for a place where they are treated well. By complying with these rules, the waste, in fact, came out of Italy duly analysed and the documents came to the hands of the Portuguese Environment Agency when it authorized. I recognize that the fog that was generated around this matter caused IGAMAOT to promote waste analysis, having concluded that one parameter, the COD, i.e. dissolved organic carbon, was higher than expected — is a fact! You mean what? That waste has more organic matter than it was supposed to have. But let the word "dangerous" be completely removed. with regard to — excuse, but this is more rigorous — the arsenic, lead, mercury, cadmium, these, yes, materials that can configure what may be hazardous waste, the analysis has given values very significantly below that which is the limit value to be considered hazardous waste. However, given the inconsequential existence of more organic matter than was expected, IGAMAOT understood whether or not this landfill has the conditions to receive waste that also have organic matter. So he determined two things: firstly, that the waste was not spread, that it was not terrified — some are in those big bags already torn, due to more manipulation than anything else... the analysis that was made is a timely analysis. What you have requested is that, through a laboratory that has been accredited for five days, i.e., until next Friday, analyses already with expression, i.e., analyses that, in quantity, would allow you to understand which waste universe. That's what we're doing. But we didn't just do that. After what came to the public, we arrived not only at another conclusion as a determination was made. First of all, at a long meeting between APA and IGAMAOT yesterday it was concluded that that landfill is actually prepared to be able to receive waste with some amount of organic cargo. Yes, it is prepared for this in the form of burning biogas, treatment of leachates. That is, if the results come to be these, there does not seem to be any problem in which those wastes are deposited there. But, not content with that—and these analyses, supposedly, began to be done today; if they did not begin today, they begin tomorrow—we resolved to make a physical characterization of the waste and we estimate that within a week or two we will be able to have this result, being the promoter of these same analyses, before, at present, an independent entity, the APA itself. Therefore, in conclusion, there is in fact no reason why such waste should be considered dangerous. We will now make the physical characterization, but the chemical characterization, for now, completely removes this possibility and, therefore, this is not just a normal situation because the government, and above all the state, the entities that depend on the Ministry of the Environment — IGAMAOT and APA — have gone beyond what is normal and have understood to do a set of additional analyses.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u25	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I believe that the Minister of the Environment has already provided some clarifications which I think were necessary, but, at the same time as he did, he has left here in the Assembly of the Republic, those which I believe should be real concerns. The Minister has just said that it is very normal for us to import and export waste — we all knew that. But it is also true that we have sought, or it has always been claimed, that the country would be equipped with a set of infrastructures so that we could treat our own waste. And many stories have been sold to us, for example, regarding co-incineration and non-importation of waste, such as the Secil and the Natural Park of Arrábida. A lot of history has been sold! But please note this concern: Mr Minister said that IGAMAOT only acted and went beyond what is normal because there was a lot of concern. If it hadn't been reported, none of it would have been done. That is, waste reaches the country and is not analyzed. So we get what others say we're going to receive and we don't know if it's exactly that. This is a real problem, Minister. What Mr Minister has just said, that IGAMAOT has acted because there has been alarm, is worrying. It can't be! IGAMAOT must act because it has to be sure of what it will deposit in Portugal, because with the environment and public health it is no longer playing and it is no longer profitable. Let's start putting the environment and environmental rules in the foreground. By the way, Mr Minister, speaking on organic matters, which I know, CITRI is not a landfill for urban waste. That is not what it was designed for, but rather as a landfill for industrial waste, and, indeed, banal. So when we talk about organic matter, it seems to me that there are some things that must also be clarified. And what the Minister said was that within days we will know whether the waste will be deposited there or not — that is what I realized. On the other hand, there is one issue which has not been clarified. According to what came to the public, a huge percentage of that pile of waste is plastic. The question that I asked and which I would like to see answered is the following: will there be any sorting of those wastes? We, Portuguese, are always calling for screening and saying that we want to separate waste and that waste should be treated as it should be, but a pile of waste arrives and everything goes to land. We do not want that final destination for all waste. Mr Minister, there are still many things that need to be clarified. As it has 45 seconds, I ask you to do something else to clarify.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u27	In order to clarify something else, then you have the floor of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u28	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the CITRI, not originally a landfill for urban waste, is a landfill that can receive organic materials. The proof of this is that it does, for example, among other things, treatment of ETAR sludge, and there would hardly be anything more organic than this. Therefore, I repeat, it has reverse osmosis mechanisms, biogas burning and leaching mechanisms that allow it to be done. Mrs Deputies, on the materials themselves—and I find that I have been given some time longer, which I am grateful for— those who are originally urban waste have already been treated, have been treated mechanically and biologically. And the plastics that are there are what is commonly called mixed plastics, which, in fact, has given so much discussion in Portugal about its value as a value of recovery, because it is extraordinarily difficult to recycle. I think it is very good that we never put down our arms to convince the Portuguese to make the separation of waste, particularly from plastics, because they can certainly be recycled. in this case, there are packagings with organic waste because they bring residues of food. Therefore, we have a significant percentage of organic matter in our presence, in which, I repeat, we are now doing a physical analysis, making everything even clearer than what it is. Madam Member, on the country and the treatment of its own waste, what Portugal is prevented from doing is to be able to receive any other type of waste on landfills for solid urban waste. It is that these landfills, which are, in fact, financed from Community funds, are intended only and only to receive the waste that is produced in our country. in addition, to the environmental point of view, it seems to me to be more correct that there is — and not promoting absurd investments of which may result in obsolete assets — this quest for a better final destination for these same wastes at the European Union level.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u29	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor, which she still has for some time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u30	Mr President, Minister, returning to what I said at the beginning of my first speech, what ends up making me some confusion is the business around the waste. When we realize that certain infrastructures built in Portugal — and many have been challenged by the population — are profitable only if we import waste has to make us think about something, Minister. In fact, putting fundamental sectors into the hands of private individuals, with private logic—and private logic is profit—makes environmental factors not in the foreground, but rather economic factors and profit-making. The Minister did not comment on the concern I raised about the fact that IGAMAOT did not carry out analyses of waste imported into Portugal. It is a matter, Mr Minister, for which the Greens will also give great priority. Don't tell me it's not possible, Minister! In fact, we need to know what's going on in the country and we can't trust what they say, out there, that they're sending us and we're getting everything they're sending us in here. That, then, can't be. And, Minister, the Greens do not lack solidarity with other countries'problems and the possibility of Portugal being able to help them. That's not what's at stake. But, Mr Minister, putting business, profit and lack of supervision in the foreground, that is how it's all ruined.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u31	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the next item on the agenda. [[Pause.]] I can see that Mrs Paula Santos is still registered to speak on the point she has been discussing. It is customary for the party to mark the debate to close it. But if there was an agreement between the Greens and the CFP, the Bureau would not object. You have the floor, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u32	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr Greens, because, in fact, the rule is that and we like to comply with what is agreed upon. however, I thought there was still a second round of interventions given the times that are available. That was our mistake. Mr Minister, in a very short way, I wanted to mention two aspects. The first aspect relates to the fact that the Minister has not responded to an issue we have raised, which has to do with the installation of the waste treatment centre in Setúbal. This facility was not peaceful, was challenged by the populations and the authorities and, following this challenge, a follow-up commission was set up exactly to monitor and monitor the activity of this centre. It is important to know how the monitoring committee was involved in this process. But, Minister, we will have time to deepen this discussion because today in the Committee on the Environment, a PCP requirement has been approved to hear APA, the company responsible for the treatment of these wastes, and also Mr Minister. In fact, we will seek to know better not only the issues related to the nature of these wastes but also the whole prior process: how contracts were made and what involvement of public administration entities in this matter was. That is why, Minister, we are going to deepen this issue at Commission level, which concerns the population of the Setúbal region. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u33	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further inscriptions on this point, we will move on to the next item on our agenda, which is a debate required by the Government on forest reform. To open the debate, Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, Mr. Luís Capoulas Santos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This year's tragedy of our forests and the people who live in them and depend on them has prompted the government to anticipate the implementation of its programme in respect of this sector. The Prime Minister, at the beginning of August, made the commitment that, before the end of October, once the fires were on the media agenda, the Government would present the set of measures to launch forest reform in order to achieve the objective of defending and exploiting the enormous environmental, economic and social assets that it represents and, at the same time, implementing the actions that will help to reduce, as far as possible, the risk of fires and their terrible consequences. in this regard, by decision of the Council of Ministers, an inter-ministerial group composed of eight ministers, including finance, defence, internal administration, justice, Deputy Minister, economic, environment and agriculture, was set up to translate into concrete measures the commitments contained in the Government programme. To assess the work done by the inter-ministerial group, the Council of Ministers met in Lousã on 27 October. in this meeting 12 diplomas were approved, 10 of which in general, in order to allow an extended public debate in Portuguese society, in order to listen to criticisms and opinions and to obtain contributions that can make forest reform as consensual as possible and more effective the measures that become necessary to implement. in the context of this extended debate, for what was placed on the Government's website the respective diplomas and a mechanism for collecting contributions, the Government decided to promote, in addition to hearing the Consultative Councils of the Ministries of Agriculture and the Environment, seven initiatives in the regions of the North to the South of the country and this debate in the Assembly of the Republic, without prejudice to the role of final decision-maker responsible for Parliament, in particular with regard to diplomas which, due to political and constitutional imperatives, should be submitted to its approval, as is the case with the diplomas on the land bank, the land mobilization fund, tax incentives, or the legal regime applicable to logging and re-arboring, moreover, of course, the legislative process on the shelves, which runs its proceedings in the Assembly of the Republic, which is why the Government abstained from dealing with this matter. That is why I am pleased to transmit to you, on behalf of the Government, the general lines and objectives of this legislative package which, of course, does not exhaust the reform that we intend to implement on a long-term basis and which we intend to be able to make a matter of regime as its implementation will be the task of several governments. We therefore consider that the main causes for forest decline lie, as we all know, in biotic and abiotic factors and in the absence of management and sorting. I recall that Portugal has even been the only Member State in the European Union who has lost the forest area in the last 15 years, about 150 000 hectares. This is due to the lack of professional management, particularly in mini-fund and forestry areas, which are largely difficult due to the lack of knowledge of the limits of ownership and in many cases even its owners. The Government thus intends to tackle these problems by creating a framework of rules and incentives that favour the professional management of the forest through public or private entities. We believe that in a well-managed forest, fire risks will be significantly reduced and capital will be more easily attracted to sustainable exploitation, job-creating and wealth-creating, particularly for small forest owners, and generating more raw materials for industry, promoting increased national production and exports. I would like to highlight the dozens of diplomas in public discussion which seem to me to be most unclear: those who create the land bank; the simplified cadastral system; the single counter; the forest management societies; tax incentives; as well as that which alters the architecture of the forest management, determining the incorporation of regional forestry planning plans into municipal management plans ( PDM ). With the land bank we intend to optimize the use of the land heritage already belonging to the State, and the land without known owners will become integrated in it. With the creation of the simplified cadastral system and the single balcony, we intend, with total exemption of costs and emoluments for the owners, to identify the heritage whose physical limits are unknown. This system will last for two years after which, by way of exclusion from parties, it will also be possible to identify the property without the owner known to be incorporated into the land bank. With forest management societies and other related public, private or mixed entities, it is intended to bring about management capacity for the forest. With the new tax incentive scheme, one of the few issues of the Forest Policy Basics Act of 1996, which is still to be regulated, aims to stimulate the creation of managing entities, attract professionalism to forest management and thus ensure the increase in certified area, without what is increasingly difficult to export forest products. With the incorporation of the ordering component of the MDPs, we intend to overcome the gap in the absence of forest sorting. We are determined to carry out what we consider to be an unattainable and patriotic task.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u35	Mr Minister, you may continue to use the floor, but from now on time will be discounted in the time of your second intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u36	I'm just asking for one more minute, Mr. President. By continuing, I would say that the Government would like this task to be the work of everyone and, if it could come to political praise, that they would be justly distributed by all those who engage in it. The debate we are promoting is a sincere exercise in which we participate with humility and without prejudice. All valid contributions or alternative ideas will be welcome and properly appreciated. We therefore look forward with hope and hope to the contribution of the Assembly of the Republic, with which we are available to collaborate in order to find the best solutions for the many, serious and persistent problems faced by the Portuguese forest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u37	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get into the first round of speeches. First of all, Mr Nuno Serra of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u38	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The forest has an unmistakable value in Portuguese territory, whether in its economic, environmental or social component. A forest policy must have an extended horizon in time, even in the long term, and not be limited to the political will of each government, or even worse, that forest is used as a currency of exchange to ensure political agreements and that it is seen through the ideological-party lens, as it happens at present. We believe that there are always improvements to be made, the world evolves and legislation needs to adapt to new realities, but we cannot understand, however, how this Government's words about forest reform are to be long-term and the first option it takes in this sector is to reverse a set of measures taken by the previous Government just over three years ago. Has the world for government changed so much in three years? Or, once again, can the long-term measures, of which the Minister speaks so much, be those which this left-wing majority proclaims? Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The forest must be properly valued, and this obliges us to review the way we look at the forest. The forest complex must be seen as a solution for the economic growth of our country, i.e. as a government priority rather than a political problem for the management of a government. The forest should be seen and thought, firstly, as economical activities, capable of generating jobs, creating wealth and a value in terms of commercial balance. Today, the forest line industry accounts for almost 10 % of our exports and employs about 2 % of our active population. The national forest, in which 86 % are private, 3 % are public and 11 % are baldium, must be taken into account as it is. This is our forest and this is what we have to manage. The row of surrogate and cork and the row of eucalyptus and paper folder are of enormous importance for national exports. They are two rows in which Portugal is a global reference and which contribute positively to the balance of our commercial balance. Only the line of eucalyptus ensures about 3 % of total goods exported and represents almost 1 % of national GDP, a row that divides society in Portugal so much, but curiously, it is the eucalyptus that forest producers prefer to plant because they have a better and faster prospect of remuneration — this is the issue of forest value. This government, under the political agreement with the left, intends to ban the planting of this species and, shaking the water of the hood, to pass this responsibility on to the municipalities. Here is the first key question: if the forest should evolve sustainably in the economic, environmental and social aspects, is the reversal of the RJAAR ( Legal Regime Applicable to the Re-Affordment and Re-Afforestation Actions ) intended by this Government to ensure the improvement of these three basic pillars of the forest? Will it prevent the planting of a profitable species from forcing or conditioning the owner to plant another in his place with less return? Or will this be a reason enough to increase the abandonment of lands in Portugal? Should not the government, at the same time, prohibit planting of a species which has economic value for the owner, create conditions and added value for alternative species through the same reform, so that the forest continues to grow, create wealth and create jobs? Does it create greater dynamics, even guaranteeing tax incentives, with which the PSD fully agrees, to forest management societies, so that they can have an active role in creating value in the forest, is compatible with the limitation of land use that the government wants to impose on this reform? Without increasing the intrinsic value of the forest, will ZIF ( Forest Intervention Areas) be able to progress on its path of expansion and growth? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue to value the forest only when it burns or appears on television. The way is to give it more value every day, particularly in public policies, so that all actors work hard to prevent fires so that it does not burn, guaranteeing its economic value and continuing to give income to its owners.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u39	Mr, you may continue to use the word, but the time you use from now on will be discounted in the time allocated to your parliamentary group for the second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u40	I will finish, Mr. President. The forest represents a common good, in which the Government has the ultimate responsibility to create tools that enable orderly growth, more effective land planning and capable of creating enough synergies to improve fire prevention, increase the economic value of the sector, preserve the environment and ensure its social component. This is a path where everyone has to take part and where everyone has to be heard - municipalities, associations, producers, politicians. But in short, the strategy can only be one: more and better forest for Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u41	For an intervention, Mr Joaquim Barreto spoke by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u42	Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: At the initiative of the Government today we are debating the reform of the forest sector. I express my appreciation for the fact that in December we are discussing forest-related matters, which was generally discussed only in the summer, at the time of the fires. Also register with satisfaction the comprehensive, comprehensive and inclusive model that is being adopted for the public discussion of this reform. In winter we are debating with all those interested in the forest. This paradigm change is very positive. To talk about the forest is to talk about the forests, their multiple use and necessarily about the communities and people they enjoy and the employment created by this important sector. Speaking of the forest is to look at, think, plan and order a living space, which always takes into account its social, environmental and economic dimension. Speaking of the forest also means knowing that 35, 4 % of the land of Continental Portugal has a forest use, and that 32 % of our territory is covered with poor manure and pasture. Speaking of the forest also means knowing and being aware that Portugal has been losing, in a gradual way, on average, 10 000 ha per year. To talk about the forest is to feel the encouragement to believe that Portuguese forests have a future, a future with an important impact on the country's wealth. Portugal is the country of Europe where forests have greater weight in GDP, with 3, 2 %. Speaking of the forest is that we are in the presence of the sector that contributes most to endogenous resources for our exports. Portugal is the world leader in cork exports and the European leader in the paper folder row. Urgency a battle against deforestation. It is imperative to take over the re-arboration. It is necessary to change the direction, investing more in the planning, management and prevention of the forest to save in the fight against fires. It is unacceptable to combat desertification and the depopulation of the interior. Our forest has a past, history, uses, customs and traditions. The Socialist Party is proud of its rulers and has evidence in the development and implementation of public policies for national forests. Let me refer to Prof. Azevedo Gomes, who helped to build the best of history that is still alive in the memory of the Portuguese. Also now, with this government and with this reform coordinated by Minister Capoulas Santos and with the involvement of the whole society, we can make history. We're acting and not reacting. We will prevent instead of fighting forest fires. Let's create wealth, we're for the green and not for the ashes of the fires. It is with great hope and confidence that we welcome these measures for the reform of the forest sector, based on ownership of forest ownership, management and planning, defence of forests in the areas of prevention and firefighting. The ownership of forest property, with the creation of the land bank and simplified cadastral information system, will allow the promotion of new forest spaces and the reduction of uncultuated and dead land. On the other hand, it will provide the current forest producers with conditions to expand their forestry production areas and attract new producers who wish to invest in this important sector, combating desertification through the creation of wealth and new jobs. It is also important to simplify the rules governing the FIF (forest intervention zones) as well as its enlargement, allowing for the accession of new owners and persons with more professional management. The transfer of directives from regional forestry planning plans to municipal management plans will allow municipalities to be more involved in land use decision-making processes. Incentives that will reward good forestry practices will also be important in promoting and valuing the forest. I welcome the plan for the prevention of forest fires and the recovery and recovery of natural habitats in the Gerês Peneda National Park with an investment of EUR 8.4 million to be implemented in eight years. The restructuring of the Forest Defense System against Fires, with better prevention to make the function of forest slag teams agile and effective, will increase control and reduce fire expansion. in the review of the legal regime of re-arborization actions we should take into account integrated and sustained plans that create balance between the species used, promoting the multiple use of the forest, with the taste and attraction of those closest to it, particularly the rural communities, producers, shepherds, hunters, beekeepers, lovers of sport, nature and leisure, among others. It is also important to highlight the incentive to native forest in its ecological, social and landscape dimension with more interest for tourism and with more benefit for society, particularly at the level of air and water purification — ecosystem services so necessary in modern societies. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members, I consider it appropriate, in my speech, to highlight the revision of the Baldies Act which is under way in this House. We must pay more attention to it, especially in the role that all the agents who manage these territories have to play. It is also important to mention, with regard to the enhancement of the forest area, the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion which includes measures that highlight, among other things, the need for a more connected interior, i.e. with greater mobile broadband coverage(Internet) and with the Sustainable Villages 4G program. It has been a great satisfaction and honour for me to participate in this debate around the forest and its multiple use. We announce more and better forest and we will fulfill it. Portugal has an area available to expand its forest, but it will have to plant more and manage better the forest areas we have. It is urgent to promote the professional management of our forests. It is urgent that we sow for future generations to reap. The forest must be viewed as a national design. We will mobilize Portuguese society for the cause of forests. To all who daily fight for the defense, appreciation and promotion of the agroforestry line, I leave a word of encouragement and appreciation for the work done for the forest in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u43	Mr Matias of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u44	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: In 2013, in a legislative initiative of the PSD / CDS, the RJAAR ( Legal Regime applicable to Arborization and Rearborization Actions ), very precisely known as the « Eucalyptus Liberalisation Law », issued a diploma prepared to promote the eucalyptization of the country. Understandably, the PSD, as we have seen now, and the pulp and paper companies do not tire of defending the continuity of the current RJAAR. at the beginning of this year, in Parliamentary committee, an industry manager clearly explained that he still wanted a little more area of eucalyptus, alongside more profitability per hectare. The fact that only now has emerged the proposal to stop the expansion of the area of eucalyptus has already assured CELPA ( Association of Paper Industry ) that little more area that it desired. It is that most of the most recent logging and re-arboring projects have been for eucalyptus. It is from eucalyptus the largest area planted since then and is already from eucalyptus the species with the largest forest area. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have all the support of the Left Block the Government's proposal to stop the expansion of the eucalyptus area. This initiative is only a matter of late. A new RJAAR should go further. Before we recognize that if it is a problem the very wide forest stain of eucalyptus, it is no less problem to deal with, in most cases, continuous forest areas. Moreover, it is a problem the existence of continuous forest spots of any highly flammable species, such as eucalyptus or pine. A new RJAAR has to contribute to forest planning, hindering or preventing the forest in continuous spot and promoting the creation of diversified forest mosaics. Some of the holes in the law decree of the current RJAAR should still be covered. For example, any authorisation waivers for actions involving species integrated into projects approved under financial support programmes with funds from the European Union should be terminated. It is a norm that enshrines the prevalence of productivity on any environmental assessments. On the other hand, at present, all legal impositions on the National Ecological Reserve (REN) can be torpedoed by so-called competent entities within the framework of public forest development support programmes. In the analysis of the projects, these bodies simply incorporate the principles and objectives of the RN. Now, compliance with all legal regulations should be required. In addition, due to the impact to which the environment may be subject, the thickening should also be classified as forest action. We believe it is right to call the municipal chambers to issue opinions of logging, re-arboring and thickening actions in their territories. The local authority should also play an important role in planning and controlling the occupation of rural territories. however, we admit that the lack of technical resources in the municipalities and a possible lower sensitivity of the autarchs to this mild theme adopt a transition formula. The municipalities could issue a prior opinion on any forest action, a non-compulsory opinion, but which, when issued, would be binding. These are, in short, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, some of our doubts and which will certainly deserve your clarification. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u45	Before giving the floor to one speech, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, I must say that the time spent most in this round will be discounted in the next. Please, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u46	Mr President, Minister : The Government today brings a series of diplomas which it has called forest reform and which concern the management and prevention of the national forest which, as has already been said, is 85% private and which the Government has outlined, without having made any prior consultation to the forest sector and its organisations. from the analysis we have made of these measures, there are some that we understand positive, other redundant and a particularly negative. But concrete, immediate measures that truly prepare the forest for the future, as the Minister said he wished, we found nothing. Within the redundant proposals, we still do not understand the real reason for the creation of a land bank, which we have already questioned and which we still do not understand, that the Minister says it is more robust and effective but that, in our view, it does not bring anything new to the existing land exchange. We still do not understand what the rational foundation of the establishment of a land mobilization fund in a country in which land is mostly private and where productive soils are all exploited. Would it not be enough, more efficient and effective, Mr Minister, to endeavour to dynamize the existing land exchange, adjusting here and there what is necessary, changing the law if necessary, thus boosting the integration of the remaining lands of the State? in the group of positive measures we have the simplification of the system of constitution of the ZIFs, although we find that there is some risk of considering municipalities as forest managers. We also welcome the establishment of forest management societies and their tax incentives. however, in the case of forest management companies, in practice, we find that they are limited to the small property of the north and center of the country since there is a requirement of half of the owners have buildings with areas up to 5 ha. This seems particularly serious to us because, given that they are intended to discriminate positively in public support, these entities, in the context of scarce resources, other areas where forest is mostly private and not managed by forest management societies may be left without support. For us, Mr Minister, 1 h of forest in the north of the country is worth as much as 1 ha of forest in the south of the country and therefore the CDS presented, within the framework of the State Budget, a proposal for a constitution of a forest management account that applied to all forest owners and that could have effects, already from 2017 onwards, and that was, in this Parliament, led by PS, Left Block and CFP. In our understanding, there has been a good opportunity to encourage investment in the forest. The maximum exponent of this alleged forest reform they want to implement and the lack of political weight that the agroforestry sector has for this government is the prohibition of eucalyptus planting. The only rational thing we understand in this measure is the ideological blindness of the Greens Ecological Party, supported by Dr. António Costa in the desire to become Prime Minister, without thinking at all about the consequences this measure would have for the country. We therefore understand that, as a forest reform, this package of measures is, Mr Minister, one is a little bit small. I would also like to leave a note of our concern about the risk of the role of restoring the authorities at the centre of forest management. We believe there is a risk of municipalization. Many forest technicians do not have forest expertise, they are not forest technicians and will have to decide on binding opinions, they will have to manage the areas of the FIF and they will have to transpose the regional planning plans of the territory into the municipal management plans ( MDP ). We are available to make our contributions to this regime pact, Minister, so that the Government will welcome them. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u47	Mr João Ramos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Today's government marking discusses forest reform, where there are projects in public discussion that, in our perspective, contain lines and guidance alongside the central needs of the Portuguese forest. The CFP understands that legislative proposals may contain correct partial measures, but do not provide the necessary and adequate response that the problems of planning, prevention and social and social dynamisation of the national forest and the country require. A first concern that can be pointed out to the forest package is the fact that the emphasis is on matters which, because of their importance, do not have it in the size that they want to be assigned to it. An example of this is the overvaluation of the case of abandoned and unknown areas, since, until today, its relationship with forest fires has not been demonstrated. However, they have worked as a fun maneuver for lack of response to problems. The CFP alerts, as it has always warned, for the fact that the fight against alleged unknown parcels can translate into the illegitimate expropriation of small parcels to which it has fought the whole life to acquire them or to maintain them. One matter which the CFP does not follow in the proposals under discussion is the possibility of giving public areas to private interests, and that is what they plan to do with forest management societies. It is clear that the Portuguese forest needs planning and prevention, but it also needs economic dynamisation of forest production. The forest package continues to insist on the use of market mechanisms, hoping that they will do what they have not done so far and that only public intervention can do, as the experience of long years demonstrates. The main problem of the Portuguese forest is that of profitability. The price at which the wood is paid is very low. Celluloses pay the eucalyptus in Portugal at half the price it is paid in Spain, and with other woods it is the same. The said market measures have been clearly used to condition. One such example is forest certification. Presented as a way of valuing wood, it has a first problem that relates to the costs of certification, difficult to bear by small owners, and, on the other hand, celluloses pay today certified wood at the prices they paid before certification processes, not corresponding to the fact that certification has been increasing the price at which wood is paid. It continues to address another issue which is fundamental in this sector and which are the wood production markets, with clearly degraded prices of wood, due to the monopoly action of two or three companies in the row. The reality shows that the guidelines of governments in response to such urgent and demanding national problems have been inadequate. There is a need to do more, but there is also a need to make a difference. The CFP will intervene constructively in defense of the Portuguese forest, the people of the baldiums and small forest producers. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u49	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are in the autumn, but who makes a trip, for example, from Lisbon to Viana do Castelo or who travels several areas of our interior does not fall. And it doesn't, because it only sees eucalyptus, eucalyptus and more eucalyptus. I remember that eucalyptus is the species with the largest area implanted in our country: there are more, much more than 800 000 ha. And, as we've heard here today, there are those who want more. We have recently heard Mr Nuno Serra talk as if the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, which the PSD and the CDS have provoked, was not a serious problem for themselves. And this is what, Minister, we want to stop, we want to stop the expansion of the eucalyptus in our country. We want the autumn gold, which now occupies little niches of our landscape, to have more expression again. More: its reaffirmation in the landscape will be indicative of a turning point in the Portuguese forest, embodied in the increase of some native species of the Portuguese forest, such as oaks, chestnut trees, among others. But since this takes time, not only for natural reasons but also for economic and social reasons, we must begin to create the conditions and incentives for this to happen. Even more so than this gold absent from vast areas of the territory ends up imposing itself also in the summer, due to the flames of fires. It is that, as much as the great economic interests try to deny it, the truth is that the violence and the impacts of fires in Portugal have increased as the expansion of the eucalyptus has been imposing itself on the territory, in our country, since the 1980s. In our view, an efficient fight goes through a profound, structural change in our forest and public policies which, of course, support and guidance and, therefore, we welcome the fact that, after a summer that, in terms of fires, was a disgrace, in which Portugal contributed to more than half of the burning area in Europe, the Minister came, in a calm period, to present a set of forest diplomas. We will not now speak on all the diplomas under discussion, because the time available for intervention does not allow it either, but we will certainly do so in public consultation, continuing to present proposals in the Assembly of the Republic and also in the Government. Once again, we reaffirm that it would be much cheaper for the public record to invest in prevention, investing in the fundamental pillar of this prevention, which is forest, than in the fight against fires. However, we could not fail to mention here today, more specifically one of the diplomas presented by the government. I am referring to the amendment to the Legal Regime applicable to Arborization and Rearborization Actions. in fact, the amendment presented here by the Government included the contribution of The Greens and, not yet the regime that The Greens wanted for the forests, we consider, however, that this diploma goes to the essential of those that were the talks with the Socialist Party and that were finally expressed in the joint position that the Socialist Party established with the Greens Ecological Party, i.e. to stop the expansion of the eucalyptus in Portugal, which was liberalized by the former Government of the PSD and the CDS-PP. I would like to ask you a question, Minister for Agriculture: is this one of the fundamental purposes of the proposed amendment to the Legal Regime applicable to Arborization and Rearborization — to prevent the expansion of eucalyptus in our country? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u51	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to thank all the speeches, because they are very encouraging to the government and give us the hope that we can achieve a reasonable political consensus on this reform, so that its results will be the task of everyone and all can be seen in them. for all the interventions that have just been produced, I can see that there are no real fundamental objections. There are some questions that arise from a lack of clarity, and which I would like to need, but essentially the main line of disagreement seemed to me to be around the question of the eucalyptus, which I think can easily prove to be a false issue. And it is a false question, by the following: in February 2015, the previous government did the revision of the National Strategy for Forests, which is a document that had already come from behind and which was then re-updated. Now, what we are proposing with regard to the eucalyptus is exactly what the previous government has advocated. And I draw your attention to the fact that it is enough to consult the Diário da República, I Serie, No 24, of 4 February 2015, where it is said, with all clarity,... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] ... and I am not making demagogy with this, that the estimated area of eucalyptus in 2010 was 812 000 ha — we are all convinced that today will be a little more than this — and that what the government was advocating for 2030 was an area of 812 000 ha. In other words, in 2015 the Government decided to stop the expansion of the eucalyptus within its limits at that time. So, what we are doing now, by changing the RJAAR, is precisely giving concrete expression to what has been consensualized with the whole sector, including the cellulose industry. The cellulose industry has endorsed this approach. That is why I would like us to have a positive attitude on this matter, because the government is unequivocally shaping the law which was a commitment made by the previous government in 2015. With regard to the other issues, the only criticisms I have seen were, in particular, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, referring to the intention to attach an excessive role to the authorities. I don't think so, Mrs. Deputies. I took part yesterday in a public meeting in Customs of the Faith for the civil society of Trás-os-Montes, and what was claimed to us was precisely that we assigned an added role to the authorities, because they consider it insufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u53	Not in management!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u54	What we are proposing, essentially, at the level of the authorities, is that the guidelines for the regional forestry planning programmes which we are going to have completed in March should be incorporated into the municipal directors' plans, so that the authorities, in relation to the forest, act as they behave in relation to urbanism today. Bringing this matter to a thinr scale, with close decision, I think we will all win, because, at the level of each municipality, the'mosaic' will be the one that is shaped in its municipal directors' plans. On technical capabilities in the municipalities, Mr. Carlos Matias, through the Permanent Forestry Fund, the Ministry of Agriculture has already financed 228 municipal technicians in many other municipalities, through the so-called forest technical offices ( GTF ). This means that there is already a small core of forest capacity. In fact, a few days ago we transferred around EUR 3 million ( let us say it is the Ministry's participation ). Therefore, I am very interested in the proposal that, in cases where this capacity may not be installed, we should establish a transitional mechanism to ensure that these matters are dealt with from a technical point of view in a completely correct manner. The third question, on which I saw not an opposition but doubts, has to do with the land bank. I have spoken several times to Mrs Patrícia Fonseca and have had difficulty convincing her of the goodness of this proposal, but let's see the following: the previous government has proposed a land exchange that the current government has decided to maintain.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u55	No, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u56	We recognize the merit of this proposal, even though the results have fallen short of expectations, which is why we will maintain the land exchange. But we wanted to go further, creating a land bank. What is the land bank? The land bank will be a institute — an institution between the aspas because we will not create any new department in the Public Administration, it will be based in the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development (DGAD ) and in the Institute for Financing Agriculture and Fisheries ( IFAP ), which are already existing bodies — in which we will integrate all the rustic heritage that already belongs to the State, regardless of the ministries that are managing it. Then we will do an examination of what is truly indispensable to each ministry and this will be attributed to its ministry. Everything else will be allocated, if it has agricultural skills, to farmers and, above all, to young farmers. And here I would like to reply to Mr Ramos, telling him that it is not about putting the public land to the service of private people. I do not think you understand that, when the State gives a parcel to a young farmer, by rent, it is transferring public interests to the private sphere, because it is only allowing the installation. If it's forest heritage, we're just creating conditions for the forest heritage that today is unproductive, which today, by its small dimension... Members, there are forest plots that fall several times in the space of this Chamber, which are insufficient to be managed. What we want, without any prejudice to the public and the private, is to hand over the cooperatives of producers, the forestry management companies, including the authorities or even the mixed entities, which are constituted by a public component and a private component, so that this forest can be managed, can create wealth, can increase the raw material available to the industry and which, with it, we can even increase exports, be they from paper pulp, be they from the furniture industry, cork or any other. On the other hand, there is no negative discrimination in respect of small property or large property. When we say that forest management companies or related entities will benefit from the tax incentive scheme, what we mean is that, at least half of the area of these entities must be composed of buildings with less than 5 ha, because it is precisely in the small property that lacks management capacity, which means that a forest management company will need to have a minimum of 100 ha, it can have a single property with 50 ha and another 50 ha with 1 ha each and we do not even require a total continuity between the different plots, even though, of course, that is desirable. These were the objections, which seem to me to be small, that we are available to work with the various parliamentary groups, in order to consensualize as much as possible, because there were no real fundamental objections to the remaining package of measures. It seems to me, in fact, that it is easily consensualized matter. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, your speeches leave me hopeless and I say this without any sense or any intention of political opportunism. As I say, the government does not want to invoke for itself political praise that will be visible, in some cases, from here to three, four or five governments. What we want is to create conditions so that what we decide today is irreversible in the future, so that what we are going to decide now is not destroyed by the next government or here by two governments. Contrary to what I said, essentially, to the exception of the question of eucalyptus, which, as I have already mentioned, was to put back what was a decision by the previous government, there is no subject which the Government has changed, except to improve, as is the case with forest slags, whose funding we have just increased from 35 to 40 000 € per year. We have made this amendment which, I'm sure, will all applaud. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful once again, and I reiterate the Government's willingness to, on the issues on which there are still points of disagreement, we can reach consensus in as broad a way as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u57	We will enter the second round of our debate. I ask the services to update the time available for the different groups, already making the discounts due to the time still exceeded during the first round. Mr Mauricio Marques, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u58	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the Minister here assumed that the tragedy this year led the Government to anticipate the reform that is being discussed today in this House. Thus the Government highlighted the incompetence shown in the management of the fires of 2016, because this year we had the lowest number of occurrences recorded in the last 10 years in mainland Portugal. We've had the lowest number of fires, but we've had the largest area burned in the last 10 years. This was the responsibility of the Government, through the absence of forest prevention - the problem for which, in good time, we warned - and also through some concern on the part of the Government in the fight against fires. Mr. Minister, he talks a lot about forest. Its high political competence leads him to talk about what people like to hear. He spoke here of Customs of the Faith, but he did not speak of Portel. We would like to know how this public debate would have taken place if it had taken place in Portel. Mr Minister, on the subject of making the forest profitable, we obviously have to make the forest profitable, whatever the species. We are well aware that tax incentives are needed to make forests profitable. We know, too, that we have an identified problem, the problem of mini-funding — we have to do, promote, parity. Mr Minister, in another legislature in which he was a member of the government, wrote the same thing that we had to encourage parceling in order to make forest planning a dimension and a possibility. What have we seen in the budget recently approved? There is a negative discrimination for areas exceeding 50 ha! Mr President, on the one hand, he says that it is necessary to parcel in order to enlarge the forest but, on the other hand, to discourage the so-called parcelation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u59	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u60	I will finish, Mr. President. Speaking of forest is also talking about fires and talking about firemen. Mr. Minister is part of a government that has not yet restored the equipment that has been lost in the last fires and is also part of a government that does not pay firefighters the expenses incurred within the Ministry of Health. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u61	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Francisco Rocha, from the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u62	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: According to an oriental proverb, "if there is no remedy, why do you regret it? If you have medication, why do you regret it? Do not keep on seeking. ” Thus, it will be easier to realize that, due to its importance, the substantive objectives which it intends to achieve, by the participatory brand that if it wants to put in this process, the reform of the Portuguese forest should be understood as a national design. In the middle of the 21st century, Portugal has notable difficulties in knowing who is in a forest spot that is held by more than 90% by private and rural communities. The Government therefore proposes that we move forward with the real knowledge of the plots, which promotes the lifting of the individuals, who are familiar with the reality of ancestral but never registered management. on the day when this work is completed, we will become part of the overwhelming majority of the European countries who know themselves. But we also know that in Portugal it is essential to strengthen the economic component of the forest line, so we consider the proposals that aim to promote sustainable, active and professional forest management, that cover the public and private sector and that promote the valorization of production, the increase of its competitiveness, the development of rural areas, recreation and ecotourism, giving shape to the concept of multiple use of forest. But we can't stay here. Although Portugal holds and applies, year after year, a forest fire defense system, it is time to weigh differently various concepts and strengthen the pillar of structural and operational prevention. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we congratulate the Government on this coherent and courageous initiative, which calls for and calls for the participation of the whole society: political parties, authorities, central administration, academic and scientific community, sector organisations and citizens. We therefore call on all members of this House to open up a reform that remains for history. As Plato said: « There is nothing great that has no difficulties». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u63	Mr Pedro Soares, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u64	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our concern in this debate concerns the need to overcome a structurally and clearly expressed the fact that, despite our unanimous approval in this House of a Basic Law on Forest Development, 20 years ago, little has been done in relation to the forest and what we have is a forest that continues to be abandoned, a forest that presents a number of problems that need to be tackled. We have identified with many of the objectives presented by the Government in its proposals: forest management and control of eucalyptization, clustered forest management in the areas of mini-funding and change of direct firefighting as a priority for a new paradigm of forest fire prevention. in a forest marked by the minifundio, grouped management is, in fact, the correct strategy. The Left Block defends public intervention, firm, strong and assertive, in order to solve the problem of managing mini-fund areas. The creation of forest management units is in fact the necessary way, but, Minister, we have some difficulty in understanding the proposals you have put forward in this area. The grouped forest management units must be able to form themselves in different ways, but we do not think it is right to remove associations, associative forms from this form of forest management societies. This possibility of establishing forest management units through associivism is essential, because we know the essential role that associivism has played in the forest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u65	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u66	I conclude, Mr. President. If the goal is to group the management in the minifundio areas, we do not understand the reason why it is intended to attach, almost in a tax manner, the large property with the small property. We know that, when they join together, the normal path is that of the absorption of small property by large. And this is a concern that we actually have. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u67	You have the floor to request clarification from Mrs Ilda Novo of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u68	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, one of the measures of this forest package aims to re-enhanced the waste forest biomass plants which, as the Government itself states, have not been fully mobilized by the private initiative. Thus, the Government has now proposed, for a year of municipal elections, the installation and exploitation of new centrals by municipalities, inter-municipal communities or associations of municipalities. Now, the CDS understands that this may indeed be an interesting alternative of energy production, on a small scale, for self-consumption, as proposed, but will not at first be a successful solution. The private initiative was not sufficient to exhaust the power placed on the competition in the past. In addition, the operation is not, as it is known, profitable in most cases. Is that the reason why the Government proposes the allocation of subsidized tariffs? After the recent effort to reduce the tariff deficit, will this trend now be reversed, even if this measure is based on kind intentions? And on whom will this increased cost fall? Where are the financial transfers to the authorities planned to deal with these investments? According to what sector organisations have, in order to be effective in fire prevention, a biomass plant should preferably consume dead and other vegetation, which have a large volume per tonne (or energy unit), which implies having to collect and transport large volumes for a relatively modest energy gain. This means that the financial and environmental cost of these operations is impractical when long distances are involved. In addition, a total area of 636 000 ha is insufficient to ensure the supply of biomass, resulting from forestry, central activity, although of small dimensions. At the same time, we stress other risks to consider and prevent, such as the harmful consequences for biodiversity and soil conservation that will result from a possible total removal of forest waste, i.e., the CDS understands that there should be a balance — as in all life — between reducing fuel load and maintaining plant waste which, indisputably, contribute to improving soil structure and preventing erosion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u69	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u70	I will finish, Mr. President. These are issues which the diploma clearly does not care about, although it recommends, in its preamble, the preservation, recovery and rehabilitation of ecosystems. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u71	Mr João Ramos of the CFP Parliamentary Group now speaks for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u72	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members, the forest has a strategic importance for the country. It is the key element in combating soil desertification and maintaining water reserves. The way forest policies have been developed has effects on significant changes in rural areas, in deep depopulation. Forest monoculture, in an area of extension far beyond what would be desirable, is a problem that has among its biggest reflections the dramatic fires that, year after year, plow in the forest space, consuming more and more area. The Portuguese forest is in decline, with the reduction of area and the reduction of some species, namely the indigenous ones, to the detriment of the eucalyptus. The former PSD/CDS-PP government has made an important contribution to this by withdrawing EUR 150 million from ProDer (Rural Development Programme) for the forest area, liberalizing eucalyptus plantation and attacking the balds. The volume of these problems in the Portuguese forest occurs despite the millions of euros affecting the sector by different Community frameworks. Forest-related matters have largely had unanimous approval by the Assembly of the Republic. It is clear, therefore, that there has been a lack of government action and decision. The overlap of the business's interest in the transformation of wood to the national interest goes against the needs of the country. News and information on the forest created to feed cellulose has recently been multiplied, produced through irrigation, particularly in public regades. It may even be an important measure for the deficit industry in raw materials, but the country has very deep deficits in several strategic productions and therefore it is not acceptable to withdraw as important resources as land or water for food production to affect the development of a private business strategy. This is because food sovereignty is not a lesser value. The country has conditions to produce noble woods of higher value added, but this is not stimulated, nor is wood valued. The industry for furniture production, of great importance in the country, also needs forest production, but for example, the pine is not properly valued. The appreciation of the forest also has to go through diversification and exploitation of species that can feed other industries or in which the country is unrivalled producer, such as cork. The forest today faces a serious plant health problem, which is not controlled in many areas, and which not only conditions the value as the activity of the processing industry. Both the pine and the mountaineering, particularly from above, go through great problems without end or control in sight. The CFP understands that the problems of the Portuguese forest and at the same time of the rural world, strongly affected by economic desertification and depopulation, will not be resolved without a significant mobilization of public resources, particularly without the indispensable State intervention, with financial resources and human resources at the height of the seriousness of existing problems and bottlenecks. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u73	To request clarification on behalf of the Green Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the Government's proposal on RJAAR will, in our view, allow the expansion of the eucalyptus that was liberalized by the previous government of the PSD and the CDS. But it will do more: it will allow you to recover abandoned areas from and with eucalyptus, create opportunities for your recovery through reforestation with native species and correct previous tree errors that allowed plantations in totally inappropriate areas and that have accentuated the continuous spots of eucalyptus, which, in turn, aggravated the dimension of fires. However, as Mr President has certainly noticed, these changes have been the target of constant and violent attacks, with great emphasis on social communication, by the great economic interests linked to the area of the cellulose industry which, for several years, but especially during the PSD/CDS government, have benefited from total protection. As we know, and the Minister too, that the public consultation will be an excellent opportunity for this sector, which has great means at its disposal to continue to exacerbate its pressures and blackmails, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, if you consider that the terms of what has been established as the fundamental purpose of the amendment to the RJAAR — which is to stop the expansion of the eucalyptus — are still rooted and will contribute to a more diversified forest where indigenous species, such as the cork, the pine, the pine or the oak, and other species, can come to play a major role that unfortunately does not have in our forest today. I think it was important for the Minister to clarify this purpose. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u75	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau has been informed that the Minister will join the time he is entitled to in this second round, in response to requests for clarification, with that of the final intervention. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development therefore has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the questions they have put and which confirm what I said in the previous round. I am, in fact, convinced that the issues that appear to divide us are likely to be overcome. Mr Mauricio Marques has alluded to the terrible year of fires we live in. He knows that this year, as in 2003 or 2005, extreme situations have occurred, with the combination of three terrible factors : temperature above 30 °C, humidity below 30 % and wind above 30 km/h. These are situations that make fires uncontrollable and, when that happens, it is not the color of the government that decides the size of the tragedy. So, what we want is to prevent these tragedies from happening again in the future, which naturally occurs through the early adoption and over many years in a set of structural changes in our forest. I would like to congratulate the honourable Member on the fact that he is accompanying the public debate since he referred to the session that took place for the Alentejo region a few days ago and to which took place yesterday for the Trás-os-Montes region, where curiously there were slightly different tonics. in the Alentejo, in fact, there were some criticisms as it was said that there is an excess of municipalization in this proposal, but in Trás-os-Montes it was said exactly the opposite, which shows that we will have to find the right measure of balance between these two positions. Mr Francisco Rocha has talked about the difficulties, and we are actually aware that it will not be easy for this government and for the next to carry out this task. We know from now on how complex the legalization of the buildings will be. It will certainly be a complex process. As you know, a single balcony, whether virtual or physical, will be created in the conservatories of the building, where all owners will be given the orthophotomaps in which the plots have to be identified. It will also be adopted the principle of non- burden, i.e. all costs with fees and emoluments, until December 31, 2018, will be entirely free. This is because, as you know, often legalizing a small rustic building costs more than the market value of the building itself and that is why many are about to legalize. We are aware of the difficulty of this task, because we admit that there may be more than 10 million rustic buildings in this situation, but it is important that this task be done and that it be done with some speed. We can't be another 10, 20, 30 or 40 years long waiting for this problem to be solved and therefore we were ambitious at the target of December 31, 2018. However, I repeat, we are aware of the difficulties inherent in this task, but we are going to commit ourselves to it. It will be a task where the Ministry of Justice will be particularly mobilized, since that is where the problem is resolved. Mr Soares, I am also grateful for your speech, but it seems to me that there is some misunderstanding behind it. The government does not intend to impose the union of the small one with the great property. Any managing entity may be constituted exclusively by small property. We call for the participation of the Associative Movement, of course, not through associations, because this is illegal, since it is, in this case, to explore the forest, an economic activity, but this movement can be developed by cooperatives of forest owners. Therefore, forest associationism is called and is welcome to this task and we admit to the possibility that, when it comes to granting areas, cooperatives come first or from other types of societies come at the end of this list of priorities, as well as the authorities or entities resulting from cooperation between them. So there's no charge. In order to prevent large property from taking advantage of this scheme to benefit from tax incentives, we have determined that companies and other entities, to benefit from them, must have at least 50 % of their area with buildings below 5 ha. Mrs Ilda Novo raised a very relevant issue concerning the creation of biomass plants. We wanted to raise them, but we are working one step further. at this time, there was a decision of the Council of Ministers to be studied and in depth—because there is already some work in this regard—the possibility of small-scale bio-refineries using forest waste not only to produce energy. Of course, with regard to the waste of the forest, there will be a door which will identify what waste is these, because we do not want in combustion to produce material electricity that may have another use with other economic value. Our ambition is to have biorefineries in which energy production ends up being the by-product of biodiesel production. I believe that if the studies that are under way are being conducted in good time and are proving economically interesting, we will probably have, from the waste of the forest, production of biofuels, while cleaning up the forest. Mr Ramos also said a few things with which I agree, namely that monoculture is a problem. That is why we want to order and move on to the PDM sphere these rules of order, precisely to avoid the mono-extensive area that has had consequences for fires. But I would like to make it clear — I do not know whether there is any misunderstanding on your part — because there is no intention of the government, in fact, that it is absolutely out of the question, to allocate areas of public recreation to the production of forest matter. at this time, some experiences are under way that are proving quite positive in order to accelerate the growth of the rats. I had the opportunity to visit, a few days ago, an experience according to which watered envelopes, which would have the first cork extraction at the end of 30 years, managed to produce the same quantity at the end of the eighth or ninth year. Of course, the possibility of having a flock will have to be an equalised issue and the use of water will never be allowed, much less than those which have public management, to water forest, to the detriment of food production, as is evident. Mr. José Luís Ferreira raised the question of the eucalyptus. It is clear that the Government, in presenting this bill, honours the commitment that is reflected in the Government Programme, according to which the aim is to prevent the expansion of the area of eucalyptus which, as I said to it, had already come from the national forestry strategy. Unfortunately it was just an orientation that was on the paper and that was not being fulfilled, but now we are going to create conditions for it to be effective. We believe that it is possible, with this forest area, in terms of eucalyptus, to greatly increase the production of raw materials for industry, because the production of paper pulp has an important economic weight and a value of exports that is not negligible, especially in a country where productivity is so low. The average productivity of eucalyptus in Portugal is 5 m3 / ha. Now, it is enough that we increase this productivity by 2 m3/ha so that we have enough raw material to make current imports unnecessary. This is possible because, with this legislation, we intend to remove eucalyptus from the marginal areas of little productive, most of them abandoned, so that this area can be compensated in others with productivity that in some cases goes up to 30 m3 / ha. Therefore, by objectively answering your question, it is clear that the commitment that is reflected in the Government's Programme and which is expressed in this bill is effectively to honour scrupulously. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u77	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are closing this item on our agenda. Before we move on to the next point, Mr. Secretary, Pedro Alves, will give you an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the report and opinion of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication shall refer to the replacement of the mandate in accordance with Article 5 ( a) and ( 3 ). the Statute of the Deputies of Mr António Leitão Amaro ( PSD ), an electoral circle of Viseu, being replaced by Mrs Eugénia Maria de Oliveira Duarte, for a period of parental leave of 25 working days from 6 December. The opinion is in the sense that the Member concerned is to admit that the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u79	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us then move to the third point of our order of business which consists in the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 341 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendments to the Statute of the Public Manager and to the legal systems of the business sector of the State and the local business sector ( PSD ), 342 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Imposing transparency duties to the administrators of the General Deposit Box and amending the Statute of the Public Manager ( PSD ), 351 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the Statute of the Public Manager, repealing the exemption scheme set up by Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, and clarifying the scope of their reporting obligations ( CDS-PP ) and 352 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Public Manager, repealing the exemption scheme established by Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, and establishing remuneration limits ( CDS-PP ). For an intervention, Mr Luís Marques Guedes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There may be several legitimate reasons for changing the Statute of the Public Manager, but surely that of creating a tailor-made fact, by order of its addressees, is not one of them. That is exactly what the current government has done, and has done so with obvious incompetence, approving an injured diploma of unconstitutionality to then demultiply itself in a perfect role of indignities. At the same time, everyone in the government tried to get out and run away from their own responsibilities. The Minister of Finance has hurriedly broken the commitments he has signed, and on behalf of which he has made progress with the amendment of the law, so that within 48 hours he will come to give his word for not saying, turning his back on those with whom he would commit himself. The Prime Minister, as soon as he saw the case badly stopped, instead of acting as Head of Government, tried to pretend to be wrong. Deceited in a process which he himself would politically lead with the President of the Republic. The Council of Ministers — the cherry on the top of the cake — assumed itself as a meeting of curious people who did not know well, or were unable to understand, the implications of what they approved. It would be tragic, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we believe in this cynical pantomime mounted by the government we have. But it is no longer comforting the sad spectacle of absolute lack of ethics and disrespect for the most elementary values of truth and decency in governance. Nothing moves me, neither in defense nor against the current directors or resignations of the General Deposit Box. Much less I have any sympathy for the unacceptable conditions that initially agreed with those who invited them and welcomed them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u82	But I find it unqualified that the government, only to save their skin, has caused them to go through bad tape and treated as disposable toys of an operation that he himself lit and mounted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u83	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u84	It's very ugly to throw the stone and hide your hand. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u85	That is what the Government has done at the highest level, repeated and consciously. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are, and is the country, perfectly elucidated as regards the political judgment to withdraw from this irreparable process, the truth is that we still have a legal deletion to resolve. The diploma approved by the Government, although unconstitutional, is in force and so will either be declared unconstitutional, or until this House alters it, restating respect for the constitutional principles governing the legal order. In fact, our Constitution established a hierarchy in the laws. Hierarchy which obliges the diplomas to subordinate themselves to those established in those who develop the general basis of their legal regimes. The Government's decree of law is in front of and express violation of the law which adopts the general basis of the business public sector. in this case, the following shall be established, and I quote: "They may only be admitted to perform functions as holders of public enterprise administration bodies natural persons with proven suitability, merit, competence(...) being applicable to them the provisions of the Statute of the Public Manager". I repeat : only the persons to whom the Statute of Public Manager applies may perform functions as holders of public works bodies. What does the government do? It seeks to unapply them with the Statute of Public Manager by decree-law, in the framework of the most basic constitutional principles. In view of this, of two, one : or we cross our arms and resign ourselves from our responsibilities pretending that we do not perceive this gross violation of the law of bases, law of bases which is reserve of legislative competence of this House... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u86	... and we are waiting for the Constitutional Court to intervene or, then, amend this trick, as is our obligation, safeguarding the public interest which, from the outset, should have prevailed in this case. in this bench, we do not habitually run away from responsibilities and therefore schedule this debate. Reporting to the content of the projects, I remember that they were presented by the PSD at the end of October, before the discussion we held at the headquarters of the State Budget. It should therefore be noted that, although we do not grant, we do not ignore the positions advocated by the other sides in this discussion. We are now limiting ourselves to insisting on the solutions that most of us have already shown that they want to reject, it would be cynically creating the conditions for nothing to be done or, at least, giving all the pretexts for it to be so. If you wish, you must assume it without false pretexts. for our part, here formally expressed the opening of this bench in order to make the legislation evolve to find solutions that may take, in specialized work in the Commission, extended consensus. New solutions, if necessary for these consensus, but solutions that respect the principle that State companies, out of respect for the money of taxpayers who support them, should be an example of containment and, when operating on the competitive market, must place their remuneration status below the average of those practised in private companies in the same sector. I am referring to the issue, which is still controversial, which is the remuneration status, of course, that without disregard for the other important proposals on gender equality, the limitation of the number of managers or the rules of advertising that favour transparency and which seem to me to be consensual. As far as the diploma on declarative duties is concerned, it should be pointed out that, given the constitutional norm of application of the Statute of the Public Manager in the public bank, his approval would become useless. But if not, its approval is strictly necessary to consolidate in permanent law what will apply only to 2017, in accordance with the principle of the annuality of budgetary rules. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a process so badly treated and managed by the government, Parliament now has the opportunity, and duty, to make the necessary corrections with serenity and responsibility. That is the challenge ahead of us! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u87	To present the draft laws of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today two bills that, not being unpublished, are, in the solutions that present, original, balanced, sensible and that try to find a point that can be of concord for, once and for all, we resolve at least part of the great trick in which the government, unfortunately, has transformed the General Deposit Box. Not wanting to make this debate the Canal História but because it is important to understand what caused the problem to know how it is solved, I would like to say that all this began when the government decided to create a completely exceptional status, removing the General Deposit Box and its regulation of the scope of the Statute of the Public Manager. It may be said that the General Deposit Box is different from the other public companies. It is true that public enterprises are very different between them, and that is why the Statute of the Public Manager itself provided for this situation. If you understand that the Statute of the Public Manager should be changed, then submit your proposals and we will discuss them. However, to create an exception regime which is not strictly worth anything but the political will of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance — which, for the most part, seems to have a tendency to change every month — is that I honestly do not think it is a solution to this problem. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u89	What the CDS proposes is very clear. As for the first draft law, which concerns transparency, we have ended the rule of exception for the administration of the General Deposit Box and we have created a much clearer rule, which applies not to the Box managers but to all public managers, because we believe that, in terms of transparency and the statement of heritage, the rules must be the same for all. On the question of wages and their limits, the CDS' stance has been very clear: we do not close doors, we do not make proposals invalid, we try to create bridges. We have our proposal, which has a roof and, moreover, assumes that, for example, when we do not comply with international rules on public debt or when we still have a wage freeze in the public service, these rules must be particularly tight and these limits must be particularly demanding. Once again I say that we are very clear on this matter: we have our proposal and our way, but we do not close doors, nor do we invalidate other alternatives. More: We have never been consistent with the game of, simply, each one saying that he prefers his proposal but makes all the others impossible and therefore everything remains in it. unlike several other parties, the CDS was not consistent with this game, and is very proud of it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u90	At the end of this presentation I will say the following: the problems of Box, unfortunately, go far beyond those problems that we have discussed today. however, we could take a step and have an important moment to solve them, because in fact, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, never, but never, no government has done so much harm to the General Deposit Box in such a short time. In fact, I can't remember a government that has done so bad to the Box all the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u92	The box was transformed by this government into a phenomenon of notoriety in the worst sense and in the center of a baroque sale. Even yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister couldn't find anything better to say not to be accusing Box of making the bills to facilitate clean exit. Well, the CDS told the Committee of Inquiry and today he says to Mr Prime Minister: please submit the documents proving the makeup of the accounts and their relationship with the clean exit. [[CDS-PP applause.]] As they criticize both the clean exit, they also do the same to say which alternative they would have preferred. I hear a lot of criticism, but the only alternative I see on the PS side, apparently, is the troika, and that, of course, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we won't want to go back! This is a good opportunity for everything not to stay the same. Let's hope the other parties can think that way too. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u93	For an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS and the parties on its left, who support this government solution, have been working for a Public Box, a Box that contributes to the stability of the financial system, a Box that supports the economy, businesses and families and a Box that is profitable. This is because a profitable box gives dividends to citizens, who are contributors, and that will help to pay for the investment that we are currently doing for the Box. This is our project, it is a project for which the PSD and the CDS — more the PSD than the CDS, it is said in favour of the truth, for reasons that can be realized — have been in a political throw process in relation to everything they can find to delay, harm and try to make it impossible. In fact, it was mentioned here by Mr Marques Guedes, with some inaccuracy... It is that, with regard to the bills that are being appreciated today, one of them was presented on November 2nd and entered on November 4th. So the PSD is attacking, so let's say, with all the weapons it has. The PSD has put forward a proposal — which, unfortunately, was adopted — in the budget of the State as it stands today. The PSD presented a proposal in the debate of the State budget and today brings another two and a series of questions, but I do not have time to indicate them. Your project is completely contradictory, and I'll explain why. Let's go somewhere. What are the unrelenting contradictions of the PSD? First, the recapitalization of the General Deposit Box. Your colleague Pedro Passos Coelho and former Prime Minister said in 2015 that the Box needed a recapitalisation of about 25 billion euros. Do you know what you voted for — and I mean exclusively the PSD, because the CDS did not vote against this proposal in this State budget? I say: in our proposal, we tabled a recapitalisation of up to EUR 2700 million — 'up to' means between EUR 0 and EUR 2700 million — and you voted against it. So explain, please, to this House and to the Country why the PSD opposes any recapitalization of the Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second unsanitable contradiction of the PSD has to do with the question of the general deposit box scrutiny. The PSD presents two diplomas suggesting that the Box should submit quarterly reports, which should put them on the Internet, to suggest a number of questions about the Box information. Looks like the PSD, or some PSD, thinks the Box isn't scrutiny enough! But today we found ourselves, and we were surprised, by coming to the former Minister of Finance Maria Luís Albuquerque, following the audit report of the Court of Auditors, the report, which says very interesting things, namely that, precisely in the period 2003 - 2015, there is a lack of control by the State of the General Deposit Board, after the recapitalisation made of 1650 million euros.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mrs. Members, the last report with individualised analysis of the General Deposit Box is 2013. The latest quarterly audit reports to the 2015 General Deposit Box were not on the Internet, were placed there by this government, already in 2016. So, what are we left with, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? What's the PSD worth? The one who made two proposals here today to ask for more transparency or the words of Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, who says: « No ma'am, the Box is already voted on by the Banco de Portugal...» — and it is! — '...and by the European Central Bank' — and what are we in after all? [[PSD protests.]] But there's more, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. You present two projects that are contradictory to each other: one project says that the Statute of the Public Manager applies in full to the managers of the General Deposit Box and the other says that only a few articles apply. You know what the difference is? For the country to know, the difference is this: for example, in Article 25. the, which you think should be applied, the managers can be dismissed only on grounds; in all the Statute of the Public Manager, the Box managers can be dismissed either on grounds or for mere convenience. What do we have to do with it, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? Is it grounded or is it grounded and merely convenient? It's contradictory, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP Member Protests Pedro Mota Soares.]] And there's more, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Unsanitary contradictions also have to do with the issue of remuneration, which the CDS now brings to debate. I don't have time to warm up the CDS proposal, but I would like to ask the following: Do you know what Dr. Fernando Pinto's basic salary was in the TAP when you were in government and when TAP was a public company and was damaging? Do we know what it was? Now see and compare: exactly the same salary that has now been assigned to the General Deposit Box Manager. at that time they were not concerned about the salaries and are now worried? This applies to PSD and CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What's it like? Two weights and two measures? Is it because it is now the General Deposit Box and, of course, they want to create a problem for the Government, the Minister of Finance and the Country? You are not creating a problem for the government and for this majority; you are creating a serious problem—and we are going to do everything to make it fail — the General Deposit Box, the country and the Portuguese taxpayers! We want a General Deposit Box that gives profits and dividends and for this we need a recapitalization not by the minimum, but for what is necessary for the Box. That's why we're doing this whole process. You are either setting a pretext, I repeat, whatever a pretext it is, to make the recapitalisation process of the Box impossible. But they won't succeed! They won't succeed, for the good of the Portuguese and for the good of the country! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u95	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Even before I discuss the PSD bill and without being here trying to hide the current problems of the Box — in large part also caused by the constant bombardment and the constant appeal that the PSD has been making — I would like to tell Mrs Cecilia Meireles...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u97	Now say it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u98	... that I remember from a government that did more harm to the Box than the current one, which was the previous Government. I recall, so suddenly, that the previous government charged EUR 82 million in cash in two years for the quota capital which should have been injected in the form of capital and which injected in the form of CoCo in order to decapitalize Caixa, the pretext of capitalisation. [[PCP applause.]] Look, Mrs Deputies, these EUR 80 million that extorted the General Deposit Box on the pretext of a supposed capitalization would pay 200 years of wages, which now so many scandalize you! [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Mrs Cecilia Meireles, Mrs. Members of the PSD, your problem is not the wages, nor the lack of transparency; your problem is the mission of the current administration. While testifying to a state secretary of your government leaving for the Banco de Portugal to go to earn €30 000 per month to sell the New Bank, as it was to alienate, privatize, tear down one more bank and hand it over to the big capital, it deserved all the money, all the salary, and that there was more. To manage a public bank, to capitalize it, to make it robust and put it to the service of the people and the national economy, 30 000 € per month is an exaggeration. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CFP is at ease because you think that in one case or another it is an exaggeration. [[PCP applause.]] We intend to propose to this Assembly of the Republic, for more than once, that this problem be solved. Already in this Parliament, the CFP has again presented a solution that it has presented in the past, and the honourable Members. Members know why they voted against it. And the rest is conversation. Therefore, over wages limits, the PSD can do thirty per line. It may pretend that it intends to impose limits on the salaries of business managers in the state business sector, but when we look at the PSD proposal, we find that what it defends is actually the recovery of what is already in the law and the limit that is already provided for in the law is the maturity of the average of the last three years of the individual. Now, this is no limit or is as valid as the current limit, which is the median of the sector. Therefore, Mr President, these are crafts which, in fact, do not correspond to any limitation. It's about the CDS case. The CDS proposes that the manager's salary be limited by the Prime Minister's salary, but there may be a performance premium that can go up to the average of the last three years of the salary. in this case, nor is it an artifact, it is even a shameless shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u99	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u100	Mrs. Members, the PSD also does not want transparency and proof of this is not just its past behaviour; it is not only that we are now confronted with a report from the Court of Auditors, which tells us that the PSD has not called on business managers in the state sector for much of its mandate. In other words, I trusted them, left that in a living room, had the same behavior as BANIF: he lent them EUR 1100 million and told them to do what they understood. And then the Portuguese had to pay the costs of these options! Therefore, the PSD also does not want transparency. from here it is very clear that the PSD has two objectives with this stacking campaign and to call the General Deposit Box. One of them is to use the Box as a political weapon, because, for you, the Box should be so little important that it even serves. The other objective and the deepest, the most programmatic, the most strategic, the one that the PSD does not abdicate and that the CDS hides but, in fact, defends, is the privatization of the General Deposit Box. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u101	That one now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u102	Have shame. Don't be a liar! That's fake! Be honest and don't lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u103	Lies? Oh, my God! Acts are worth more than words! Honesto, or CDS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u104	Maybe I'll learn from you for the Small Field!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u105	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for allowing the conditions for the next speaker, Mrs Mariana Mortagua, to use the floor. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD has had the opportunity to limit the salary of public managers, at least three times in the last two months. At the time of Parliamentary assessment, the CFP proposed limiting the salary of public managers and the PSD voted against. He was there in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation. in the State Budget, the Left Block proposed the limitation of the salaries of public managers and the PSD denied this proposal. In the specialty, there is a project of the Left Block to limit the salaries of public managers, but unfortunately the PSD does not seem to have any interest in this process that currently runs in the specialty and that can change the rules of the public managers. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block is today, as it was in the past, against millionaire wages in or out of the Box, but already the PSD, for three times, could have limited the salaries of public managers and for three times refused that opportunity. So we can ask: what does the PSD come here to propose? It was not under the law that the PSD now proposes that the Pedro Passos Coelho government paid €423,000 per year to Fernando Pinto, who was managing TAP? Was this law now proposing that it allowed Fernando Pinto's salary at TAP? Did anyone at the time see any PSD member indignant with the more than €400,000 that the manager of a company, which would damage, was he receiving? Someone at the time heard some PSD member raise his voice when Sérgio Monteiro went to Banco de Portugal to receive 30 000 € per month, 400 000 € per year to sell the New Bank? Some PSD member recalled questioning the conflict of interests in the hiring of a cashier, which is Sérgio Monteiro, to sell a competing bank, which is the New Bank? Never! We have never heard a PSD word on this matter! That is why it is not legitimate or legitimate to ask why those who have never worried, in the past, about the limitation of wages are now mobilized as if it were the fight against their lives?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u107	And why did those who worried stop worrying? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u108	Is it legitimate or not to ask why those who have decided to pay Fernando Pinto and those who have protected Sergio Monteiro now say they are outraged by a salary from the General Deposit Box? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also legitimate to reply that it is political opportunism. It is pure and harsh political opportunism.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u109	Yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u110	It is political opportunism, without looking at means and without looking at consequences. And the consequences are, yes, the fragility, in public, of the General Deposit Box. Therefore, what is on the table is not even the limitation of wages, nor the recapitalisation of the Box. What is on the table is the political disorientation of the PSD, because what the PSD expects, with great strength—has a lot of hope—is that, if it makes a lot of noise on all cases of the General Deposit Box, no one realizes that for three months, it has not had an alternative vision for the State Budget, which for three months did not have an alternative vision for the country and that it has no alternative vision for the future of the public bank, the largest Portuguese bank, which is the General Deposit Box. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The PSD expects, with great strength, that if we don't talk about anything but Box cases, no one realizes that there is no political strategy in the PSD. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do not count on the Left Block for this exercise.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u111	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u112	The PSD will have to take its political disorientation on its own without the help of any other party. But the country can count on the Left Block for a much more important debate, which is to know the role of the public bank, which is a solid bank and which must be a guarantee of support for the economy, employment and stability of the Portuguese financial system. Because we are concerned about the public bank, we are concerned that the Court of Auditors has been alerting us to the lack of control in the past about the operation of the Box when the PSD and the CDS were in the government and had the custody of the Box. As we are now concerned that the current restructuring plan has not been the target of a clear and responsible debate, as the largest Portuguese bank deserves. Should the Box mimic the private sector or should it be a disciplinary element of the market? Should the Box reduce counters or, on the contrary, contribute to territorial cohesion and access to banking services? Should Box favour housing credit or business credit? Which sectors should the Box favour? Should the Box have a decent policy of renegotiating the debt of over-indebted families or should it be more a factor of impoverishment? What role should the Box play in Portuguese communities? Should the Box support the internationalization of companies or, on the contrary, should it focus on national activity? These are all very important questions about the future of the Box and which deserve a very serious debate in the Assembly of the Republic. Mrs. Members, the privatisation of the financial sector in Portugal has caused us to lose all control over the operation and design of the bank. The Box is what we have left. The Bank is our remaining bank, it is a solid bank and deserves this debate to be held with serenity and responsibility. It is regrettable that the PSD has been contributing to the contrary throughout this process. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u113	Sad to say, it's a change of position for convenience!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u114	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think we all already realize that this sudden and sudden concern on the part of the PSD and the CDS for public managers is at least very doubtful. Even I would say that it is not necessary to be the nobel of ‘divinship’ to perceive the real intentions of the PSD and CDS in this matter—more the PSD than the CDS, it is true. It is clear that what is intended has nothing to do with the defence or affirmation of public interest at the level of the Statute of the Public Managers. It has nothing to do with salaries or transparency. What is intended is to make the fish surrender. What the PSD aims to do is to continue to wind up the novel General Deposit Box, which they invented. [[PSD protests.]] While we were discussing the State Budget, there were still moments when the PSD discussed the General Deposit Box. There were up to the time when it was thought that what was under discussion was not the State Budget for 2017, but rather the State Budget of the General Deposit Box. We well know what the PSD thinks about the recapitalization of the Box and the efforts it has been making to weaken the recapitalization process and to weaken the General Deposit Box itself. We also know the'sympathetic' with which the PSD looks at the public nature of the General Deposit Box — and that is the problem. We know all that. We also know why we call the "sudden and sudden" concern, especially the PSD, regarding public managers. Examples are not missing. at the level of the salaries, the case of the former State Secretary of the PSD / CDS government, Sérgio Monteiro, in the New Bank has been discussed several times here. And we could also talk about the salaries of the administrators of the National Civil Aviation Authority (ANAC ), which, one day to the other, tripled their salaries and, above all, with retroactive effects, something we are still to understand. And now they can tell us: "Yes, but that was the committee of dues." It's true. But it is also true that two of them were indicated by the PSD/CDS government, one by the Minister of Finance and the other by the Minister of Economic Affairs. Therefore, I believe that the extent of the responsibility of the PSD/CDS Government is clear in this grossly immoral salary increase of ANAC administrators, who still have another nuance, since transparency is also mentioned, which is another concern of the PSD and the CDS in terms of transparency of public managers. It is because they are very concerned about transparency today, but the fact is that they have appointed public managers, at least for independent administrative authorities, with the negative opinion of CRESAP ( Recruitment and Selection Committee for Public Administration ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u116	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u117	That's right, Mr. Hélder Amaral! You know very well, because you even went there to meet them! And in one case, an administrator was appointed by the PSD/CDS government without that appointment passed through the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u118	It wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u119	Mr President, perhaps she was having a cup of coffee with you, but the Commission was not. In fact, we're still about to see the costs that this will bring.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u120	Sir, your time is up. I appreciate it coming to an end.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u121	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, Mr. Hélder Amaral, as you were the only one with this administrator, I must congratulate you on that. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Mrs. Cecilia Meireles, how outraged? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u122	Thank you for finishing, Mr. Deputies,
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u123	I'm done now, because the honourable Member is very indignant.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u124	Yes, I am!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u125	I end by saying that the Greens will not give to this petition.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u126	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u127	Mr President, it is only briefly for a timely but essential issue to restore the truth. The CDS has never defended the privatization of the General Deposit Box. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u128	The CDS has always defended the General Deposit Box as a public bank...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u129	Blah-blah-blah-blah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u130	...and the promotion bank for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And the CDS never — never! — it was part of a government whose programme was included in the privatisation of the Box, nor was it indifferent to it, nor did it look to the side. And so much so that the CDS, in fact, was not part of a government that privatized the Box. I understand that you want to stir up ghosts and you want to make politics to shoot at the other intentions that never existed, because it is comfortable. It is certainly more comfortable than, for example, to explain how the entire time they have been accusing the former Government of having wanted to privatize the Box and today they are defending the administration of the Box chaired by a former Minister of the former Government — this is still a little strange for those who make intention processes. And this is a respectable person. In fact, what is at stake here is not people, but this situation must be very uncomfortable for those who are there. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u131	For an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u132	Mr President, I just want to leave a few brief remarks. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, it is in fact a reality that the PSD did not approve the privatisation of the General Deposit Box, but that is not enough. It is necessary to enable the public recapitalization project of the General Deposit Box. It is that if we failed to enable a public recapitalization project of the General Deposit Box, it is the same as implicitly supporting privatization. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I don't know if the PSD has changed its mind or not. The PSD was defending privatization, I don't know if it's defending today or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u133	If you don't know, learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u134	But objectively the behavior of the PSD today is in order to unfeasible the public recapitalization project of the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u135	Mr Luís Marques Guedes asked for the floor to speak, but I must make it clear that this is not yet the end of the debate. You can therefore speak now, but I inform you that there are still other Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u136	Then I'll use the floor later, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u137	All right, Mr. Deputies. The next item is Mr Miguel Tiago.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u138	You're going to apologize!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u139	Mr. President, Mr. CDS members are asking to say that they have never defended the privatisation of the General Deposit Box. [[And it's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u140	in fact, they never said it openly, but we are also very used to the fact that the parties in the elections never tell what they are going to do—in fact, the CDS is very well known for this. [[CDS-PP protests.]] We remember you well, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS participated in a government with the PSD, in which the Prime Minister of the PSD, said he wanted to privatize the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u141	No, I wasn't saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u142	And we do not remember the CDS to make any kind of complaint, nor even to invoke red lines at that time—although the red lines for the CDS do not have a very large value either.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u143	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u144	Mrs. Members, the truth, which is worth more than the words of the CDS, which are not worth much either,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ...is what they did and the way they used to capitalize the Box. If we look at the past, for 2012 we find that PSD and CDS, the pretext of capitalization, did everything to weaken the Box and instead of injecting capital, borrowed money by charging very high interest rates, which harmed the Box and which today weigh in the Box. In fact, they charged over EUR 80 million of interest to the Box to inject capital through contingent capital, the so-called CoCo. This option, which corresponds, at the same time, to the presentation of a restructuring plan, of which there is no evidence that the CDS has demarcated itself and that it has not been fulfilled, is the basis and origin of the problems which the Box is facing today. PSD and CDS, at the time, were obliged to capitalize the Box. They presented a restructuring plan and failed to comply. And the capital they injected was in the form of loan that still today weighs on the accounts of the Box. About that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality clearly shows that your government's option was not to strengthen the Box. On the contrary, it was creating all the conditions, even through capitalisation—in fact, through isolated capital and easily insulated to be alienated—, to privatize the Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u145	Sir, you've wasted your time. Thank you for finishing up.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u146	That reality is unimaginable. I take advantage of just to recall that this House will certainly have other opportunities to limit the salaries of public managers—and not only those of Caixa, but of all public managers—and at that time we expect these features of concern with transparency and with the discipline of the public accounts that the PSD has already shown to manifest themselves more intensely. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u147	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u148	Mr President, with regard to the salaries of public managers, I think it was very clear what the real intention of the PSD is: it is not to limit wages, it is to take advantage of cases to, as a result, cause problems to the recapitalisation of the Box. With regard to the transparency project, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the project has two major problems. First of all, a problem of opportunity, because the PSD with this bill says there are problems of transparency in the Box, but today, in the press, the PSD, when commenting on the report of the Court of Auditors, said there were no problems of transparency in the Box. We therefore fail to see whether there are problems of transparency in the Box, or whether there are problems of transparency only when the PSD leaves the Government and when it is in the Government there is no problem of transparency. But this is a conflict that we will resolve further. The second problem of this bill is that it is wrong. In fact, it's a bad project. The PSD is putting to the vote an article which was, in its entirety, approved a week ago in this House within the framework of the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u149	Don't! A year ago! You don't know that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u150	Therefore, when we put to the vote an article which has already been voted on and approved, it does not seem to us to be a good legislative technique. On the other hand, the project is bad because it is doing exactly what the PSD criticizes others do, which is being doing a project according to the administration of Box, placing responsibilities and taxes on Box administrators who don't put any more business public sector administrators. However, it also tells us how much experience to legislate according to momentary interests has never been very good practice or good advisor so that afterwards the legislation we produce will generally apply to the whole business sector. And that is what we want: it is for the House to produce serious legislation, responsible legislation and to apply to the whole business sector. Thirdly, this bill quickly creates a set of obligations that at least deserve to be discussed, voted on,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u151	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u152	... in a work which Parliament is already doing and which must be continued.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u153	Mrs. Member, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u154	I will finish, Mr. President. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, because we believe that legislative work must be taken very seriously and that this project has many shortcomings, we believe that this diploma must — and that is the challenge we face to the PSD — as all others who have dealt with transparency, go down, without a vote, to the committee dealing with transparency issues, where there are already several tens of projects in the same area and where they can be worked and debated. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u155	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What makes our work difficult here is that we do not really understand what the PSD wants. Or, better, we understand what you want. We know that what the PSD defends is not what it believes in. For example, as regards wages, we remember - not only the examples already mentioned here but also, and very well, the creation of an offshore minister - therefore, such transparency that you were not so concerned about in the past - that it earned €25 000 per month and that it had as its sole responsibility to deal with privatisations, even giving telephone orders to the Box to privatize, for example, the Cimpor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u157	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u158	It's true! Antonio Nogueira Milk confirmed this on Twitter. You can confirm, you can verify, it's public! Therefore, the PSD does not mind paying millionaires. But only on one condition: that they be wages of people working to privatize public companies or offshore ministers who are working to advise the government on privatization. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] But if it's to manage, take care of and manage public goods and public banks, PSD doesn't like it anymore. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD, we know very well what you want. They do not want what they propose, because when they were in the government they did the opposite. In fact, perhaps for this reason, Maria Luís Albuquerque who, today, spoke against the PSD and CDS bills here today in debate, for her statements, is not strangely in the Hemicycle. Therefore, the only thing the Socialist Party is asking the PSD Members to be serious and, if they are even committed to making the Box a solid public bank, then they leave the political terrorism they have devoted to in recent times and engage in the good conduct of this process and ensure that Caixa will be a public bank, solid and recapitalized. If this is what they want, then we only ask you something very simple: that your acts correspond to your words. It's just that until now we've seen the opposite. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u159	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u160	Mr President, I just want to make three very brief remarks. We have heard here the PS say that the most important thing is the stability of the financial system. I quote, in response to this, Mr. Prime Minister who said yesterday: "What certainly happened in the past was to make a situation that would make it possible to announce a clean exit". Do you think this is to preserve the stability of the financial system? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u161	That is to denounce what you have done!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u162	Secondly, they say: « All we want is to do public recapitalisation». Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, do it! So far, all I have heard was the Secretary of State saying: "This is very, very urgent! And we asked: "O Mr Secretary of State, if it is very urgent, why didn't you do it? to what he replied: « Urgency does not mean any more». And I ask: but urgent means what? You mean half a year from here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u163	The time for your intervention has come to an end, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u164	Finally, I would just like to answer Mr Miguel Tiago with one question: how much will it cost, in payment of interest to private individuals—is it not the public record, is it private— the EUR 1000 million of capitalisation in bonds that are provided for in the plan of the Box? What's it gonna cost, what's the public record and the Box gonna pay private? [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u165	To close this item on our agenda, Mr Luís Marques Guedes has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Members of the majority, of the social-communist majority in this House, have been entertained, during this debate, with amusing maneuvers. They refused, I don't know if they don't want or don't know, to discuss the fundamental question that is before us, using diversion maneuvers and successive lies, within that maxim, that you seem to profess, that a lie often repeated to so many people can be accepted by people as truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u168	Say one! Just say one!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u169	You know, ladies. Members, who, in this House, have a bench that does not profess your doctrine, which is this bench, that of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u170	Great seriousness, that one!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u171	With a little bit of Republican ethics, you would know that in a rule of law there is the rule of law. And the law passed by this government is unconstitutional, it is a law that is in frontal contradiction with the law of bases.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u172	Your laws are contradictory to each other!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u173	The provisions of Article 21. the Legal Regime of the Public Business Sector is as follows: « You can only be admitted to perform functions as holders of public enterprise administration bodies... » — and you are the first to defend that the Box is a public bank, it is a public company— «... natural persons with proven fitness, professional merit(... ), and the provisions of the Statute of the Public Manager (... ) apply to them. Do not keep on seeking. ” So you want to bury your head in the sand, thinking that if you don't do anything, the problem will be solved by you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u174	That's your old maxim!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u175	That's what you did about Banif and Box!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u176	Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, with all loyalty, I must tell you this: if you persist in this autistic attitude of burying your head in the sand,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u177	It is only'serious' and 'good taste'!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u178	...the Social Democratic Party will raise the constitutionality of the decree-law of the Government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u179	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 341, 342, 351 and 352 / XIII ( 2. ( a). the fourth and final point of the agenda is the general discussion of the projects of lein.o 345 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Promotes the urgent regulation of parental responsibilities and the allocation of food in situations of domestic violence and the application of coercion or ancillary penalty measures involving distance between parents ( PS ), 327 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the General Rules of the Civil Protection Procedure ( approved by Law No 141 / 2015 of 8 September and the second amendment to Law No 75 / 98 of 19 November ) ( BE), 350 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo, extending the period of protection up to 25 years ( Third amendment to the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo, approved by Law No 147 / 99 of 1 September, amended by Laws No 142 / 2015 of 8 September, and 31 / 2003 of 22 August ) ( PCP ) and 353 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Affirms the need for urgent regulation of parental responsibilities in situations of domestic violence ( NAP), together with draft resolution No 558 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the performance of judicial support in the context of domestic violence crimes and regulation of parental responsibilities and verify the need for the establishment of a multidisciplinary team to support the judicial system ( NAP ). To present the PS bill, you have the floor of Mrs Elza Pais.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the past five years, around 350 children and young people have witnessed situations of extreme violence among their parents and more than 170 have become orphans. in the last 10 years, approximately 450 women have been murdered and more than 500 have suffered attempts at marital murder, data from UMAR (Union of Alternative Women and Response). That is, on average, a woman is murdered every nine days, many in the presence of her children. Children suffer when they witness this kind of violence and suffer even more when they are manipulated, which creates a strong fear of insecurity and harms their healthy development. In some circumstances, the common exercise of parental responsibilities may be judged contrary to the interests of children and daughters. The successive governments have put the fight against domestic violence and crime against sexual self-determination as a political priority: in 2000, public crime was determined ; in 2007, a new legal type of crime was defined, extending the concept to homosexual relations ; in 2009, domestic violence law was approved, using electronic surveillance and teleassistants to make the removal of aggressors more effective. This type of crime has become defined as urgent and the applicable penalty has become aggravated by the result, « (...) if the agent practices the act against the minor, in the presence of a minor, in the common household or in the home of the victim(...) ». The Socialist Party has always been on the front lines of these fights. In 2015, new advances were introduced, including communication between the criminal court and the family court. We believe, however, that this communication is late and we want it to be done urgently and immediately to better comply with the Istanbul Convention, which says that any right of visit or any right of custody cannot harm the rights and security of victims and children. We want, therefore, and always in the defence of the best interests of children, that the regulation of parental responsibilities and the allocation of food be urgently done by the competent court, which was not resolved in the 2015 amendments, such as the APAV (Portuguese Association of Victim Support ) and the Portuguese Association of Women Jurists repeatedly affirm. This is a justice project, it is a project to protect children, it is a project to strengthen communication between the criminal court and the family court. It is a project to urgently define parental responsibilities, custody and visiting rights, so that they do not harm the rights and safety of victims and children. It is a project to better explain in which situations the joint exercise of parental responsibilities can be judged contrary to the interests of children and daughters. It is a project so that, through the establishment of clear and timely rules, one can strengthen the autonomy of the victims in order to break the hellish cycle of violence that can lead them to death. It is therefore a project to protect children, empower victims, prevent marital murder and save lives. [[P.S. and P.A., André Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u181	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs. Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill presented here by the Left Block seeks to comply with Portugal's international obligations through ratification of the Council of Europe Convention for the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the Istanbul Convention, specifically with regard to ensuring the safety and protection of victims and children in contexts of domestic violence. We know that despite the effort Portugal has made in preventing and combating domestic violence — and it has already been mentioned — between 2004 and 2015 428 women have been murdered, 497 women have been victims of attempted murder, hundreds of children have been orphaned by one or two parental figures. We also know that domestic violence is often dragged on for many years, maintaining a climate of terror, violence and domination that often does not diminish with the separation of the couple, and that is proof of the crimes committed so often in the course of the process of regulating parental responsibilities. In order to improve the current legal regime on the exercise of parental responsibilities and the allocation of food, and thus to promote greater protection of victims of domestic violence, the Left Block project introduces amendments to the General System of the Cable Protection Process and to Law No 75 / 98 of 19 November, which establishes the terms of the guarantee of food due to minors in charge of the State. The guidelines set out in Article 48. that of the Istanbul Convention binds States parties to take the necessary legislative measures to prohibit alternative mandatory dispute resolution procedures, including mediation and conciliation in relation to all forms of violence covered by the scope of the Convention. In order to comply with these precepts, it is proposed that the use of specialized technical hearing and family mediation between the parties should not be admitted in two specific situations: in cases of domestic violence, particularly when one of the parents is assigned the Victim Statute, and in cases where one of the parents is accused of a crime against the freedom or sexual self-determination of the child or children. Putting forward the front aggressor and victim in situations where one of the people has exercised, and often still exercises, a strong rise of domination and violence over the other undoubtedly constitutes another modality of aggression and violence that does not compete for the consensual solution, nor for the duty of the State to protect the victims and respect for their rights. It is also proposed to record the parent conferences in the context of the procedures for regulating the exercise of parental responsibilities, as well as the conferences in the processes for the allocation of food due to children, exactly as is already done in other situations. Finally, an amendment to Law No 75 / 98 is proposed to ensure that young people up to 25 years of age who pursue their studies or vocational training are not deprived of the food pension that is due to them when it is insured by the State, through the Food Guarantee Fund due to minors, thus making them equal to the young people who receive this pension directly from the parents. The inability of the parents to pay the food pension to the children cannot justify the inequality of rights now in force between those who receive the pension directly from the parents and those who receive it from the State. We are convinced that the amendments we propose contribute to the improvement of the protection of victims of domestic violence and to greater respect for their rights, as well as to the best interests of children. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Elza Pais.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u183	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today several initiatives relating to the protection of victims of violence, which aim to ensure consistency and judicial harmony in their protection, as well as initiatives relating to the rights of children and young people. In September 2015, the law made sure that, in the event of divorce or legal separation, the maintenance pension fixed for the benefit of children could be provided until 25 years of age when it was still pending completion of the educational or vocational training process. The project proposed by the CFP aims to extend this matter, because we believe that if children are entitled to require from their parents a food pension for the completion of their educational or professional journey, this principle should also be extended to young people in charge of the State, to young people who are welcomed and institutionalized. However, the CFP project is precisely in this direction, under the penalty of an important investment — in fact, of the State's fundamental obligation and task before these young people — to be called into question with the interruption of an educational and vocational course. On this subject, I would also like to say the following: today, we discuss subjects that are particularly important and that have a sense of strengthening the protection of victims of violence, especially children. But for the CFP, it is particularly difficult to make this debate by looking only at the letter of law and the improvements that must and can be made, because, in fact, what comes to us from the concrete reality of the functioning of the courts and the monitoring of the victims is that, in most cases, there is a revitalization, due to lack of effective monitoring and protection, especially in the psychological context, of these victims. from the PCP, we are making this debate aware that there are aspects of the law that can and should be improved and therefore the project that we present is precisely in this sense because the young people welcomed by the state must also have safe protection on this matter. But it is necessary to go much further in guaranteeing a State obligation. Protection of victims of violence is not a favor that the State does to the victims, it is an obligation that stems from the rule of democratic law and therefore there must be effective mechanisms to protect the victims. It is not by chance that when the victims of domestic violence appear in court often go alone, without having access to the psychological support that is necessary and without, therefore, protection mechanisms that guarantee a path of autonomy and emancipation, a path of success in their lives. For this reason, on the part of the CFP, we will contribute to these proposals, which can also be improved in the field of specialty, listening to the various opinions which have also come in the meantime and others that are considered important. However, for the PCP, in addition to improving the law, there must be guarantees in the courts of material and human conditions for the effective monitoring and protection of victims, under the penalty of terms, in the letter of the law, to guarantee a principle that reality prevents it from occurring. Therefore, of course, the CFP's commitment is to protect all victims of violence and to guarantee the best interests of the child. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u185	To present the draft law and the draft resolution of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members:...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Domestic violence continues to be the most reported crimes in Portugal and therefore remains a reality for many Portuguese families. It is therefore urgent to prevent and safeguard the rights of the victims and their children. The experience of this kind of situation fosters the conception of an insecure and frightening world, with the development of symptoms of anxiety and aggression. Aware of this, several parties are now proposing legislative amendments with which we agree, but we are bringing to the debate a few more proposals and contributions, such as those mentioned here. In situations of domestic violence, communication between the court and the family court and minors is non-existent, not allowing an integrated, comprehensive and effective approach to family dynamics. For this reason, it is essential that the prosecution order for domestic violence or the decision to apply coercion measures be communicated immediately to the family court and minors. in cases of conviction for murder in a conjugal context, the court should consider inhibiting parental responsibilities by the aggressor, taking into account parameters such as the child's age, whether or not she lived with the parents, whether or not there is a family capable of caring for their education and development. In short, whether or not there are conditions for the aggressor to maintain the exercise of parental responsibilities. We defend that alternative dispute resolution processes, such as mediation, should not be mandatory as it will hardly be possible to obtain consensus between the aggressor and the victim, in addition to constituting further aggression for the aggressor. We also propose that, in addition to the exemption from moderate rates for the victim and for children in general, free counselling should be provided for the victim and children, whether they are minor or not, who have witnessed the practice of crime in some way. In parallel, we propose, through the draft resolution, that the performance of judicial support be evaluated in the context of these two types of proceedings, seeking to know whether there is an advantage to appoint a single lawyer and whether there is a possibility to prioritize the appointment of that lawyer. In addition, we also recommend that the Government analyse the benefits of creating a multidisciplinary team that provides technical support to the actors of the judicial system, such as psychology professionals or social service, specialized in the topic of domestic violence. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, domestic violence is a crime against humanity, transversal to all society and has a structural, economic, social and cultural nature. It is in the hands of each of us, but also of the legislator, to contribute to the eradication of violence, to a more just, more equal and more harmonious and safe society for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u188	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It sends the common sense that, with regard to all the interventions made here by Members of the parties who have presented legislative initiatives, it is said to agree, in general, with their content. Mrs Elza Pais said that this fight, in order to reach the legislation we have today in this area, has been done on the basis of broad consensus in this House. The honourable Member has been a witness, I have been a witness and we are witnesses to this consensus effort made in this House among all political parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u190	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u191	There is no one who has led or ceased to lead the legislation we have come to at this time. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the country of good laws, we are the country of best laws and sometimes we are even the country of best laws in the world. But why do many of these laws, and some of them are the best in the world, often collide with reality? And we know that there are many laws that collide with reality. I would say to you that the responsibility of law-makers is the justice system, and I will say no, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about reality and a problem with us. Sometimes there is too much volunteerism and we want to make laws quickly and with too much haste. And quickly and well, there is no one, as the people say, and says very well.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u193	We want to change with these initiatives the Civil Code, which is a diploma that rarely undergo changes; we want to change the law of domestic violence, which came into force in September 2015 ; we want to change the Code of Criminal Procedure, a fundamental element of our legal world; and we want to change the General Regime of the Cable Protection Process. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to understand what I am going to say next: we must be very careful to have good legislation and legislation that has to do with reality, legislation that is accepted by the recipient, legislation that does not find obstacles in its path. These matters are too sensitive and too important for us to run to discuss and approve the laws. We have problems with the coercion measures, which have an objective; the coercion measures have to do with the constitution of arguate and with the protection of the person who is arguate. Therefore, parental measures cannot be restricted. But we need to discuss this. The five-day deadline imposed on your legislative initiatives relates to the functioning of the judicial system is too short. And there are many other issues that I cannot now address for having little time, but we have very serious legal issues and I am sure that we all want good legislation, better legislation. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to the effect of these diplomas, like what has already been done in particular with regard to the legislation of the Istanbul Convention, have gone down to the committee without a vote and, whether or not a working group, together, we are working on this legislation to have legislation done rigorously and, above all, in accordance with reality. That's what I'm suggesting. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u194	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The essential of this question has now been said by Mr Fernando Negrão, but I would like to make a disincentive. We are discussing two different things here today. On the one hand, we discussed a PCP bill that makes all the sense and that takes our support, which aims to extend the food pension, by the state, to young people up to 25 years old, and we discussed a Block bill that has a proposal that also takes our support, as long as no one is excluded, so that no one remains outside the consecration of the food pension until 25 years old, like what happens to parents and children. On the other hand, we discuss the initiatives of the Block, the PAN and the PS with regard to domestic violence and the regulation of parental responsibilities. The BE does so in a lateral way and we have nothing against the recording of the conference, but we have many doubts about the prohibition of mediation or technical hearing, because not only does it harm simplification, as a minority certificate passes to the judge, who should have the ability to assess whether mediation, in the specific case, makes sense or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u197	So this has to be studied and we must not do it by decree without more. As for the initiatives of the PS and the PAN, the issue that is on the table is obviously commendable, worthy and take all our support. Domestic violence is a scourge that is transversal to our society and has been fought by the various governments in a way that has not been completely effective, so it persists. So we must all do better and better, and this obviously implies more and better investment than just legislation. But — and I stress this 'but' — to deal with a greater evil, which is domestic violence, we cannot be making children a lesser evil. And with that the CDS doesn't compact. The central issue is always the victim's and not the child's.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u199	If we read the bills that are on the table, we realize that the tonic is always put on the victim. If the victim has to be protected, without any doubt, we must also be sure that the child is protected. And this is a very complex, very sensitive matter which involves a lot of weighting and cannot be lightened, as it is intended to be done. The tow of such a noble cause, we cannot do something that can result in the institutionalization of parental alienation and thus the CDS will never compact. And we know, we all know, in this House, everyone knows, in fact, the NAP refers to this in the preamble to its bill, that half of the complaints of domestic violence are false and serve precisely to keep the children of the parents immigrated in divorce proceedings. It is true — everyone knows — that the children serve as a weapon in such processes. We therefore have many reservations about this matter. Today, a number of mechanisms are enshrined in the law to protect children in these issues. Let us first listen to the experts, see which way is exactly, with caution, with great caution, because the children are also at stake. And we, I'm sorry to say, do not embark on the fashion that there is an absolute right to have children, but there is no absolute right to have parents. With that, don't count on us. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u200	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the proposal made here by the PSD Member Fernando Negrão, on our part, there is no problem in which this matter goes down to the committee without a vote. The PCP bill is clear about its objectives and therefore we understand that it makes sense as long as this happens with a reasonable deadline for the process to have the desired speed. Mr Negrão asked whether we have a law and successive amendments to the law, so why does the situation not improve? from the PCP, we have been recording that there is no need to change the letter of law when there is a fundamental problem, which is the lack of material and human resources of the courts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u202	It's reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u203	It is not by chance that the CFP has recently submitted a proposal for the opening of an extraordinary competition for judges in the Public Prosecutor's Office, because in fact there is a lack of judges in the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as a lack of judicial officials and a lack of members of the multidisciplinary teams supporting the courts, which are essential, in fact, in these processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u204	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u205	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that on the side of the CFP we believe these are fights that run in parallel: the legislative changes that are necessary for the protection of victims of violence, but also the guarantee of the material and human resources that aim to comply with the law and the principle of the best interests of children. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u206	You now have the floor for a telegraphic speech, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is only to mention that I do not understand how Mrs Vania Dias da Silva drew this idea that half of the complaints of domestic violence are false. in fact, only 5 % of the complaints are false, and that is not said in the NAP bill either. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u208	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would also like to welcome the initiatives of the PCP, the Left Block and the PAN, which will greatly contribute so that this legal building can be extended to prevent and combat domestic violence and also protect victims. Mr Fernando Negrão, I have you in very high regard and surely there will be all the openness to integrate your knowledge, your common sense and your contributions, which will greatly help to improve this project. I am only sorry at this stage that we have not done so a year ago, when the Socialist Party has made contributions to improve your proposals and they have been unfeasible. But we are always at the moment of dialogue and it is healthy that such dialogue takes place in matters as sensitive as this.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u210	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u211	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, the issue of false complaints and parental alienation to prevent this urgent dialogue between the two courts is a false issue, as we will have the opportunity to discuss in the field of specialty and, surely, there, the honourable Member will agree with us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u212	We have thus concluded the last item on our agenda. Before announcing tomorrow's agenda, Mr Pedro Alves has the floor to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u213	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the proposals of lein. 40 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Infrastructure and Equipment Programming Act for the Forces and Security Services of the Ministry of Internal Administration, which falls to 1. the Commission, 41 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to create the public service of electronic notifications associated with the single digital address and 42 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the use of assisted reproductive techniques, which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-06.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the agenda for tomorrow at 3 p.m. is set out in the first item of the 15th meeting with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. the second point consists of the preparatory debate of the next European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, under Article 4 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. in the third point are scheduled, without discussion time, the motions for resolutions 21 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on Biomedical Research, opened for signature in Strasbourg, 25 January 2005, 22 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on the Transplantation of Organs and Fabrics of Human Origin, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 24 January 2002, and 23 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Moldova on International Road Transport of Passengers and Goods signed in Lisbon on 28 May 2014. Finally, there will be a vote on the Rules of Procedure. I wish the continuation of a good afternoon and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 20 minutes.]]
