ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries. Before we begin our agenda today, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 164 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code, establishing a legal status of animals ( PS ), which falls below 1. the Commission, 165 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment of Law No 23 / 2006 of 23 June amending the legal regime of young associations ( PS ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 166 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Defines a phased payment scheme for premiums payable by higher education students and creates a special payment scheme by beneficiaries of social action grants by the third amendment to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August ( PS ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 167 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June 2003 regulating the legislative initiative of citizens ( second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June 2003 ) ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 168 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Review of Law No 28 / 98 of 26 June, which approves the legal arrangements for the employment contract of the sports practitioner and the sport training contract ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission in connection with 12. the Commission, 169 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Renews the principle of the most favourable treatment and regulates the succession of collective labour conventions, making the ninth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 170 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum working time limit for all workers, making the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 171 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amendment to the Civil Code recognizing animals as sensitive beings ( NAPs ), which fall to 1. the Commission, 172 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Possibility of permit of animals in commercial establishments ( amends Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January) ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 173 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the animal sanctions regime ( amends the Penal Code ) ( PAN ), which falls below 1. the Commission, 174 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 by strengthening the protection regime in parenthood ( NAP ), 175 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the reopening of the possibility of requiring the reintegration into its functions of State servants under Decree-Law No 173 / 74 of 26 April ( BE ), which falls to 3. the Commission, and 176 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the initial parental leave and the period of exemption for breastfeeding ( BE ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 247 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend the name of the Citizenship Card ( BE ), which is lower than 1. the Commission, 248 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — That the dredging of the Fuzeta bar be considered as a priority work included in the dredging program of the Sociedade Polis Litoral da Ria Formosa ( BE ), 249 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Support for the organization of the production of mushrooms SHITAKE and ends with the penalization of new producers through the presentation of bank guarantees as a pre-contractual condition in projects approved under support for rural development ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 250 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Need to study air quality and epidemiological study in Alhandra, due to the pollution effects of CIMPOR ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission in connection with 9. the Commission, 251 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote innovation in the economy ( PSD ), 252 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate the production, processing, distribution and marketing of wild mushrooms and truffles ( PS ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 253 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of the Centre Hospitalar do Médio Tejo ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 254 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the National Vaccination Programme ( CFP ), 255 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement a screening plan for colo-rectal cancer and, as a preventive measure, establish a population awareness plan ( PAN), 256 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to support and protect burned persons ( BE ), 257 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The valuation of the classifier teachers of the national examinations ( BE ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 258 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the Working Conditions Authority by meeting the ILO Conventions ( PS ) and 259 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a) — On updating the National Programme for Vaccination (The Greens). Finally, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, Bill No. 19 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — In defence of family agriculture in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( ALRAM ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Members, our agenda today consists of two points : first, political declarations and, second, a political declaration by the Government, under Article 78 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on justice at the service of competitiveness. For political declaration, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « For some conservative value, which has nothing to do with the tax pedaling of Dilma, my vote is yes? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” In the midst of the degrading show that we saw in the morning of last Sunday, this vote statement sums up, honestly, the moment when the impeachment of the President of Brazil turned out to be a blow against a democratically elected government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u6	The following morning, the titles of the international press ridiculed Sunday's farce: God and grandchildren of the Deputies dropped the President of Brazil — this was the summary made by most newspapers, such as the New York Times or the Newsweek. After the explanations of vote of 367 Members in favour of impeachment it is no longer possible to whiten what happened: « by the wife Paula, by the grandson Gabriel, by the niece Helena, by the aunt who took care of me when I was a child, by the insurance brokers of Brazil, by the evangelicals, by oil, to end with the Single Workers Central and its marginals, by the military dictatorship of 1964 and in honor to the torturer Alberto Brilhante Ulstra", which was the terror of Dilma Rousseff. Who in Portugal lends himself to the role of cheerleaders on the Brazilian right now can only shut up with shame. And you see why! Between God and the world, everything was right to overthrow the President of Brazil. Everything, except such a liability crime, which would be the only legal justification for impeachment. The debate went on and on the formal basis of impeachment and no sign. They have been forgotten, even by the organizers of the coup, as rascal excuses that they were and we can only expect the fight against corruption not to go along the same path of forgetfulness. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, you will never hear us whitening the swamp of corruption that dominates Brazilian politics. They will never hear the Left Block deny the involvement of PT high officials in the Mensalão, Lava Jato scandals or in any other scandal of personal or party favouring the Brazilian people. In Brazil, as in Portugal, corruption must be combated and the corrupt must be subject to the most inconclusive justice. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But that's not what happened last Sunday. If so, the entire Brazilian political system would have to be target of impeachment for being made to favour the purchase of votes, private financing of parties, the exchange of favors and corruption of political power. If anything could have prevented the unconstitutional outcome of this history, it would have been the political reform and democratization of the political system that PT itself promised and failed to fulfil. Unlike Dilma Rousseff, 60% of the Members who voted 'yes' to their dismissal are in the arms of justice. It was the case of MP Raquel Moniz, PSD — not Portuguese but Brazilian PSD — who dedicated his vote to his husband Ruy Moniz, Mayor of Montes Claros, example of public management of clean hands, but who, the following morning, was arrested by the Federal Police for involvement in corruption. The argument of transparency has no credibility in the mouth of the corrupt. We speak of the organizers of the coup: Michel Temer, current Vice President and alleged successor to the presidency, is suspected in investigations of Lava Jato. And then we arrived at Eduardo Cunha, father of the impeachment and President of the Chamber of Deputies, accused the Supreme Court in the case of Lava Jato and at risk of losing his own mandate for lying to a parliamentary committee of inquiry on hidden accounts abroad. The truth is that the cassation process of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Eduardo Cunha, runs much slower than the impeachment process of Dilma Rousseff.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u7	And it's no coincidence!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u8	Let's see if the thanks of the Brazilian right Eduardo Cunha for impeachment to Dilma Rousseff is not amnesty and impunity for the crimes he committed. [[Congratulations from BE.]] At the end of 72 hours of discussion in the Chamber of Deputies there is a question that is mandatory: does impeachment solve any of Brazil's corruption problems? Don't! But to confirm, impeachment is the victory of corruption. Impeachment is the victory of an evil and conservative right-wing system that saw an opportunity to rob power. It is true that impeachment is a legal instrument, but its rules are constitutionally foreseen. When the causes justifying it are false, when their motive is political and not judicial, when the evidence fails, when the arguments are forged, then we are faced with a farce, we are faced with a pure blow of opportunists. To cover up nepotism and protect their own interests, the coupists did not limit themselves to opposing the government, shot at the Constitution and, with it, shot at democracy. We need to know whether the coups will move forward for the revision of the 1988 Constitution, for which, after all, it is only enough for a majority of Members to join together by the same grandchildren and the same wives. The Left Block does not come to this Tribune today to discuss governments, rulers or their political options. Here, the Left Block rises by democracy, along with so many others and so many other Democrats, to regret that in Brazil...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u9	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u10	I will finish, Mr. President. I said that the Left Block here stands up to lament that in Brazil a democratically elected government may fall not by vote of voters but by a blow made in the name of corrupt interests and corrupters. [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] Those who accused us of interference for defending democracy in Angola had no power to defend the coup in Brazil.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u11	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u12	So, and before the hypocrisy of interests disturbs our reason, here we are to remember that the role of democrats is to defend democracy, wherever it goes and prays to those who hurt. I repeat: no one expects from the Block the silence and complacency on the privilege and abuse of power.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u13	Unless it's Lula! [[Rice from CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u14	But today, after everything that happened in Brazil, I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Right-wingers even think that it is democracy and transparency that the coupists move in Brazil. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u15	Calm down, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be no strike here!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u16	Mrs Joana Mortágua, the Bureau records Mrs Carla Cruz's registration for clarification. Please, Mrs. Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u17	Mr President, I welcome Mrs Joana Mortágua, the Block on the Left, for the statement that she brings here and, indeed, the situation in Brazil is a cause for concern for all Democrats, or at least should be a cause for concern for all Democrats. The PCP has already expressed its concern about this situation which, behind a process of removal of President Dilma Rousseff, based on false arguments and a supposed criminal procedure aims at the immediate objective of overthrowing the popular expression that led to President Dilma's victory in the last elections and also aims at deeper goals of retrogression in the social and economic achievements achieved and destabilization of Brazil and Latin America. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] The debate and approval of the admissibility of President Dilma Rousseff's dismissal by the Brazilian Parliament, on 17 April, show that the basis for the dismissal of the President of Brazil does not result from any criminal procedure in which the democratically elected President is involved, but before, what moves the deportation is the attempt to achieve what has not been achieved in the last presidential elections. The right and the great Brazilian capital intend, with the ongoing couppista operation, to impose on the Brazilian people what this denied them in the polls. Moreover, the statements and arguments that were used at the 17th session, with deeply reactionary, obscurant and anti-democratic content, reaching out to some Members to heighten the black times of the dictatorship and the torturers at the time of the vote, well show what moves them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u18	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u19	With the admissibility of the removal process, what reactionary forces and imperialism intend to reverse the process of changes initiated in 2002, during the victory of Lula da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u20	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u21	I shall conclude, Mr President. On Brazil, in fact, there are real dangers of destabilization and a serious process of political, social and economic regression, but there are also deep reasons to trust, because more and more people are aware that the consummation of the coup would represent a violent attack on labour and social rights, democracy and freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u22	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u23	For this reason, the CFP reaffirms its solidarity with the workers and the Brazilian people and hopes that it will defend democracy and deepen the social and economic achievements of the Brazilian people. [[Congratulations from the PCP and some of the PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u24	In reply, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u25	Mr President, Madam Member, I thank you for your question and I also welcome your courage, which other banks did not have, to speak about the coup that took place in Brazil. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] in a democracy, political power is not afraid to face its opposition in an open field, but that is what happened to the opponents of the Brazilian government: they were afraid to face political power, they were afraid to face in an open field and therefore went to the coup. And just out of shame of what happened and those explanations of vote, just out of shame of those arguments is that the PSD and CDS benches shut up here,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ...because on Twitter and Facebook they didn't shut up, they slow down the coup and beat the coups. Mr. João Almeida, who does not speak here on Facebook, welcomed vote No. 342, the pernambucan vote because it was a pernambucan Member who sealed the coup. Mr. João Almeida later said that the next day he had come to the public that this Member is on the list of those who were corrupted by the Lava Jato process and the Odebrecht process. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u26	After all, consistency? Oh, my God! There are no corrupt good and corrupt bad. And whoever defends democracy and democratic values knows this, he knows there are no corrupts to defend and corrupt to attack. [[There, there!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u27	That's what the Left Block came here to say. The law must be equal for all and justice must be equal for all. The benches on the right, which here are not outraged by the attack on democracy, which here are not outraged by the destruction of the Brazilian Constitution, in the same way that they have not outraged themselves, and even offered it, when they see our Constitution being crushed by the troika, and realize that they are not outraged by the crushing of the Constitution, at least because, in a declaration of vote, in a democratic country, a torturer has been honored. [[Congratulations from BE and some PS Members.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Paulo Jorge Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u28	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on the Stability Programme and the national reform plan is under way. Throughout Europe, due to the strategic importance of the two documents, this debate is held in step by step, only in Portugal has the government chosen to present a national PowerPoint reform—not a real programme, but only 53 propaganda slides—and hide the Stability Programme, hiding indicators of importance as crucial as the growth of the economy, unemployment, deficit, debt or the weight of taxes on families and businesses. With this option, the Government wants to limit and condition the debate. To limit the debate because, instead of presenting a structured plan, with quantified proposals, it prefers to present an advertising pamphlet, and it is up to the opposition to present the real measures. Conditioning the debate because discussing reforms without discussing its financing and its impact on the economy and public accounts is not politically serious, it is, in the good socialist way, to make propaganda without making the accounts. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Something tells me, moreover, that this plan and this program restore the model that led us to the mirage of 2009 and to the misfortune of 2011, omits what has happened in the country in recent years, ignores the efforts and sacrifices that the Portuguese have had to do to overcome the serious crisis that the PS has led us to and, more than that, challenges our credibility and the risk of Portugal returning to the radar of the countries with problems. That is not enough, there are also worrying signs to which we should give specific attention and on which this programme is omitted. There are some indicators that can become dramatic if they gain thickness and are not shortened. These are the warnings of the international organizations of which Portugal is part and which tell us that we should not reverse the reforms that have been made and that are now beginning to produce positive results. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is the downward review of Portugal's growth for 2016 and 2017, made by all national institutions and by all international institutions. It is the European Commission's insistence that Portugal pursue a path of moderation and budgetary rigour. We know that, to some, all of this may seem irrelevant. on the part of the CDS, our obligation is to look at these signals carefully and seek, in the small margin of maneuver that Portugal has, to avoid them. They're disturbing signs. I repeat, these are worrying signs that something may be changing to worse in the economic scenario of Portugal. We all know that there is growth only if there is trust and that, for investment to exist, that trust is vital, and if we want to get back to work, we have to bet effectively on investment. in this plan, so important are the signs we give inside as those we give out, and in the Program, what the PS is doing is exchanging an economic model of gradual but secure recovery for a model that is an adventure and is an experience.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u31	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in such a discussion, the CDS does not lose its appearance. For this reason, we will present and vote our proposals, focused and concrete, for all areas of the PNR (National Reform Programme) : for each critique, an alternative; for each axis, a solution,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u32	... for the economy and for the people, for the territory and for the qualification, for the modernization of the state and for justice. Let me give you six focused examples. First, to value exports and foreign direct investment as one of the strategic pillars of our economic development. This Government seems to have given up the export sector. We therefore propose to maintain the target for exports of 50 % of GDP by 2020, which this Government is reviewing below and beyond. Secondly, make a reform to ensure the sustainability of social security. The Government cannot continue to ignore this debate and ignore the willingness expressed by the CDS to work together in a reform that ensures the future sustainability of social security. The CDS is therefore available to work on a social security reform that gives peace to current pensioners, does not succeed who is in the middle of their contribution career and effectively guarantees the right to a pension to younger people. Thirdly, recognize the importance of firms' competitiveness for job creation. The Government cannot continue to treat, by pure ideological prejudice, companies as abstract and rival entities of the people and regardless of the taxation and capitalisation of companies. In the name of fiscal stability, we propose to maintain the decline of the IRC, voted in this House and agreed with the social partners, and to help capitalise businesses improve the tax system within IRS to people and funds that bet on SME capitalisation instruments ( small and medium-sized enterprises ). Fourth, less bureaucracy and modernization of the State must mean a reduction in costs for the lives of Portuguese. We will present concrete measures to reduce the amount of fees applicable to services that have been or are being dematerialized, reduce reporting obligations and also for a second edition of the PREMAC ( Central Administration Reduction and Improvement Plan ), with a reduction in the structures of the State and its leaders. Fifthly, launch an ambitious programme to combat long-term unemployment, similar to what we have already done in the Youth Guarantee. Ensure those who want a second opportunity in the labour market who can be trained and may have active employment measures in a business context. Sixth and last, value the territory. We miss the decline in agriculture and the sea to mere sectoral departments of governance, without a structural role. We will therefore propose the resumption of the reprogramming of the RDP 2020 ( Rural Development Programme ), interrupted by the current government, and the development of specific and consistent actions to capture foreign direct investment for the blue economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u33	I would ask you to synthesize it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u34	To conclude, Mr. President and Mr. President and Mr. Members, we will not allow the Government to use this debate to create a'smooth curtain' on the Stability Programme. It cannot be the government in Brussels negotiating the Stability Programme and until plan b and then in Lisbon only talk about the national reform plan. What are the measures that the Government is negotiating?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u35	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u36	Is the stability programme and the plan b'b'in Brussels, with a cut of EUR 1000 million already for this year and EUR 1400 million for 2017, or is it « b'in the Left Block, with an increase of taxes already this year, starting at 25 %? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u37	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies. It's been a long time since he had it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u38	We all realize that there will be a plan b, we have all heard what plan b is not, every day we see the source of the European Commission, the source of the government, the source of the Left Block and even the source of the CFP to say what the plan b will be, but the Portuguese deserve to tell them clearly and transparently what comes there. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u39	Mr, there are several entries from Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. So first of all, Mr Sérgio Azevedo, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u40	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Member of the CDS on his statement and say that, indeed, there is an appearance in relation to the PNR debate, which was initially an outline without goals, without measures and without timetable. They made here a sort of parliamentary stagnation of very little palpable discussion, with generic considerations, but without any realisation. They use the PNR to escape the debate of the Stability and Growth Plan. They use a « smoking curtain», as I said, and well! to escape the serious and necessary debate on the Portuguese economy. One year ago, the famous « centeno plan » made a forecast of growth of 2, 4 % of our economy; six months later, a little later, in the State budget, 6 percentage points fell, fixing the forecast by 1, 8 %, insisting on an imaginary growth, even when the more moderate forecasts pointed to 1, 5 %. There is certainly a hidden budget. There is a budget to be negotiated on our backs, such plan b, such additional measures. And the logic, Mr President, is, unfortunately, the same and unfortunately it is doing school in our Parliament: to prevent the public discussion of structural matters, to prevent Parliament's pronunciation, to act in darkness and deafness, so that they cannot be scrutinized for the work they are doing. But there is one thing we are right about: this new time, this new course, this new way of doing politics will cost us very much. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask you a simple question and, above all, I would like you to give me your opinion on whether or not it is becoming clearer and clearer, Mr President, that already smells 2011. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u41	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u42	Mr President, Mr Sérgio Azevedo, I would like to thank you for your question, but not just by highlighting something that seems very important to me: the CDS and PSD benches came to play with your proposals in this debate. We had the ability to present our ideas, even more in detail than the government's own National Reform PowerPoint, the 53 slides we know about the reforms. from the point of view of the CDS, we prefer to do so in a concrete way, having in each of the axes one to two measures that effectively reach people, who effectively reach the economy. But in this sense, there is something that neither we, nor, I think, the PSD are available to do: none of us are available to let the PNR be a smoke curtain on the Stability Program... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u43	... and even on plan b that we see every day in the social communication, first of all from a source of the European Commission, then from a source of the government and — see there! — now, through the sources of the directions of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u44	False! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u45	We all realize that there is a plan b, we all hear what plan b is not, we hear a source every day saying what plan b is. It is time for the government to clearly, transparently, tell the Portuguese what is coming there. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u46	This debate is too serious for it to be a hidden stability programme with an out-of-country reform plan. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u47	In fact, he has touched on a point which I think is very important: we have already seen this film. We saw this film in 2009, when we were collectively promised a mirage, but we saw this film in a dramatic way, in 2011. We know very well where the promises of 2009 led us: they led us to bankruptcy. They took us to ask the Portuguese for an enormous sacrifice so that we could grow up again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u48	To fulfill your dreams!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u49	And now that we were doing it safely and sustainably, what these gentlemen, of course, want to do is, once again, go back. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u50	To request clarification, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u51	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, I would like to ask whether the honourable Member who talks here about concealment and lack of transparency is the same person who frozen the retirement age by nightfall and with the approval of the former President of the Republic, frustrating the expectation of hundreds of thousands of pensioners who would ask for their reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u52	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u53	In fact, because of their responsibility, in the silence of the night, without debate and without disclosure, they froze the age of the reform, frustrating their expectations and interfering in an unworthy way in their lives. Is it the same Pedro Mota Soares, or is it a new Pedro Mota Soares? I would also like to know whether Pedro Mota Soares here makes a political statement on concealment and lack of transparency is the same Pedro Mota Soares who, as Minister of a Government, sent the Stability and Growth Programme to Europe before sending to the Portuguese Parliament and here discussing it. Is it the same Pedro Mota Soares, or will it be a new Pedro Mota Soares? I would also like to know whether this Pedro Mota Soares who talks here about PowerPoint and of little dense things is the same Pedro Mota Soares who was Minister of a government who had as Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Paulo Portas, who did something, space 14, called « Reform of the State», but it does not appear that he had any consequences. Is it the same Pedro Mota Soares, or will it be a new Pedro Mota Soares? [[CDS-PP protests.]] Then I would also like to ask whether Pedro Mota Soares who made a statement here about poverty and other indicators is the same Pedro Mota Soares who was Minister of Social DesSolidarity, who left 850,000 children and young people in poverty. Is it the same, or is it a new Pedro Mota Soares? Then I would ask Mr Mota Soares a little calm, since a debate on the stability programme for the week is scheduled on 27 April, where he will have all the time in the world to discuss this document. Therefore, discuss this document when it reaches Parliament. And if anyone has talked about a plan b every day it has been the CDS, which, with its excitement, makes press conferences in retrospect, demanding a plan b, demonstrating more desire that it exists than doubts about whether it is actually being planned or not - and we have already said several times that, at this moment, the only plan that exists is to carry out the budget with competence, which you have not done in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u54	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u55	The question I would like to ask the honourable Member has to do with the following: he seems very upset at the fact that there are people out there who criticize initiatives or projects of the Portuguese Government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u56	I would understand whether the honourable Member was criticizing proposals, ideas or strategies of the Portuguese Government with which he does not agree. For reason a, b or c, you have every right not to agree, but there is one argument that I do not accept, which is to say that they feel bad out there. But "out there they find it wrong" is argument? Oh, my God! I believe that the only argument against certain measures or certain bets is those measures or those bets are wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u57	Mr. João Galamba, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u58	Invoking the authority argument of 'outside don't like much' does not seem to us a valid argument. So I am returning the question to you: you agree when European institutions say that Portugal should bet on a low wage model and that increasing the national minimum wage is a mistake and that the only thing that the country can have as a perspective for its workers...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u59	Mr. João Galamba, you have long exceeded your time. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u60	...is precariousness, disqualification and low wages, or does the CDS, in this matter, have autonomous ideas? What does the CDS want? Do you mean 'out there sounds bad', or do you want to put forward proposals that make sense and that really respond to the aspirations of the Portuguese people? It was a question that the Socialist Party had and that I would like to see clarified by the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u61	Mr Galamba, you will excuse me, but I warned you three times that you were beyond your time. Mr Galamba could at least have noticed that he had heard the warning from those who preside over the work. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] You have the floor to answer, Mr Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u62	Excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u64	Mr President, right now, I would like to say that I had exactly the same time as Mr Pedro Mota Soares and I do not remember having listened to Mr President to warn Mr Pedro Mota Soares that he had to finish his speech. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u65	Mr. João Galamba was wrong because I warned Mr. Pedro Mota Soares. To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u66	By the way, thank you, Mr President. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] Mr. João Galamba,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u67	Hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u68	...we here, on this bench, do not advocate a model of economic growth based on low wages. [[Oh... no...]] [[Oh... no...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u69	I would like to remind you that it was us here on this bench that we helped Portugal to get rid of the troika so that we could increase the national minimum wage, the minimum wage that Mr. Deputy, in this bench, when he signed the Memorandum of Troika, wrote there that he could not be increased. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But, Mr. Deputy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u70	Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u71	...I'd like to know where Mr Galamba is who criticized the freezing of the retirement age and who now, last month, frozen the retirement age.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u72	Where are you going? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u73	Is that the same Mr. João Galamba? Oh, my God! Where is Mr Galamba who, every day, said in this Parliament that the previous Government was discussing in Brussels and not discussing in the national Parliament and that now that the Portuguese Government is only discussing in Brussels — and it is not only a stability programme but also a plan b with those gentlemen on their left — is strictly silent on this matter. Where's Mr. João Galamba? [[CDS-PP applause.]] where was Mr Galamba when a PowerPoint of reforms was presented, 53 slides, without an account, without a number, without a quantification, as if it were an effective reform made in Portugal? [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] In order not to exceed my time, I ask you just one question, also very focused: where is Mr Galamba who, every year, demanded the vote of the Stability Programme here in Parliament? Are you going to ask again this year for the vote on the Stability Programme? [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Or, after all, is Mr Galamba like that member of the Socialist Party who said that the Germans would even shake their legs with the renegotiation of debt and who now says that it is a sign of intelligence to learn from history and that the only experience of confrontation strategy, in terms of debt renegotiation, has failed? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] This member of the Socialist Party is Pedro Nuno Santos, now a member of the government, who, by the way, no longer shakes his legs, not even his lips. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u74	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u75	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, from there from the rostrum, announced a number of measures proposed by the CDS. If the CDS now comes with good measures, it is appropriate to say: blessed opposition! This is because when the CDS was in the government, we only saw the worst measures. Now that the CDS is in the opposition, it has good measures, which shows that it's in the opposition that the CDS is okay. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PS MP João Galamba.]] But, Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, there is something we would like to understand about the position of the CDS. The CDS is against austerity measures — and in the budgetary debate it seemed to us that the CDS was against austerity measures, or does the CDS think there should be more austerity measures? We couldn't figure it out. The CDS has now made the discovery of plan b. And we may fail to realize whether the CDS criticizes the eventuality of such plan b, that the CDS speaks so much, or whether the CDS claims a plan b, that the CDS, by the way, defends. This is because, when we come here talking about warnings from international institutions, we have to ask the CDS clearly whether it is in favour or against the increase in national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u77	It is that what such international institutions have come to criticise was the increase in the national minimum wage. Does the CDS share this criticism? Oh, my God! Does the CDS think that the national minimum wage should not be increased? Oh, my God! Do you think the Portuguese who earn the national minimum wage are well paid? Oh, my God! It was good for the CDS to say exactly about that. When the CDS comes to warn against what these international institutions want to impose on us in an unacceptable way, does the CDS really defend what, when it was in government, wanted to impose on the Portuguese? Oh, my God! Final cuts in pensions, in the order of 10 %, which have been declared unconstitutional, proposed by you as a member of the former Government, is this what the CDS wants? Is this the answer the CDS wants to give to warnings from international institutions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u78	Mr António Filipe, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u79	I will finish, Mr. President. In other words, does the CDS think that the Portuguese State should emphasize the measures by which you have brought hundreds of thousands of Portuguese to life? Is this what you want? Oh, my God! If not, say clearly on which side are you : on the side of blackmailing such international institutions, or on the side of defending the improvement of the living conditions of the Portuguese. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u80	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u81	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, I thank you for your questions. In reply, I will say the following: no, the CDS does not want a plan b, because if there is a plan b in Portugal, it is a sign that something has actually failed. But when something fails, the responsibility is not the CDS, the responsibility is yours, Mr. Deputies, your party, the Left Block and the Socialist Party. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u82	It continues to make figs!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u83	And I also tell you, Mr President, that we, on this bench, are in favour of the increase in the national minimum wage. But the increase in national minimum wage should not be made here in Parliament, it must be done on its own, that is, in social consultation with the representatives of employers and workers. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But you know, Mr. Deputies, in this matter, there is a great difference between the CDS and the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u84	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u85	We are here to discuss our ideas and our proposals in this debate, and some of them have already been proposed and presented to the Portuguese in the Government programme, and others are new. I note that the Communist Party in this debate has no proposals, which means that the Communist Party in this debate certainly supports the proposals that the Government is submitting. That is why, Mr António Filipe, I also do not resist asking you a question. It is that we also began to know what the Communist Party was in the opposition and what the Communist Party is today in the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u86	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u87	The Communist Party in the opposition in this House made requests for an increase of €25 in minimum pensions and the Communist Party today to support the government in power, lead the increase in the minimum pensions proposed by the CDS, which, see there, was only so that people would not lose purchasing power. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u88	No, no! We proposed an increase in pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u89	The Communist Party, in the opposition, always voted in favour of the coming of ministers or former State Secretaries to this House. Yesterday, the Communist Party, in power, led the coming here of the Minister of Education and of the former Secretary of State for Youth and Sport. [[PCP protests.]] Mr President, for us, what is really important is to understand very simply one thing: the Communist Party, in the opposition, has every year, here in Parliament, a request to vote on the Stability Programme. What is the Communist Party going to do today in the government? Will you re-submit an application to be voted on or will you become the Socialist Party and the Left Block? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u90	We are not exchange-tints like you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u91	For a political declaration, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u92	Mr. President and Mr. Members: pressure, blackmail and interference from the institutions of the European Union are again making themselves felt. The aim of these maneuvers is clear: to go tightening the fence, limiting sovereign decisions and narrowing the possible budgetary options until there is only one path left, exactly what the European Commission imposed on Portugal in the past and which aims to see progress in the future, the path of aggravating exploitation and impoverishment. Such pressures and interferences are not new, they were only less visible during the consulate of the previous PSD/CDS government, which always adopted a subservient position before the institutions of the European Union, a position dictated not only by the complete identification with the neoliberal European project but also by the intention—never confessed but deeply desired—to use the troika program as a pretext for the realization of an old dream of the right: to adjust accounts with 25 April, destroying its important achievements at the economic, social and cultural level. The report of 3. the evaluation of the European Commission or the decisions and intentions announced regarding the national bank are only the most flagrant examples of how the European Commission continues to seek to create a framework that could serve as a pretext for interference in our sovereign decisions and the imposition of policies that the people and the country refuse.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u93	Sir, I'm sorry I'm interrupting you. I ask the House to make a little more silence and to ask the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who are behind your back who you're talking about sitting down. You may continue, Mr. Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u94	The European Commission and the European Central Bank, supported by the International Monetary Fund, are unable to disguise their deep disappointment at the fact that the Portuguese people, in the legislative elections last October, have unequivocally rejected the path of exploitation and impoverishment imposed on us during the black years of the troika programme and the PSD/CDS government. They cannot disguise their frustration at the fact that the new composition of the Assembly of the Republic has allowed the adoption of a State budget which, following the European Union's guidelines, seeks to respond to the most urgent problems of the Portuguese people with regard to the return of wages, pensions and rights, the reversal of privatizations, the improvement of the social functions of the State in health, education and social protection and the reduction of the brutal tax burden on labour income. What they really want — and will not fail to use all the means at their disposal to achieve it — is the continuation, for time indefinite, of the policy on the liquidation of rights and assault on the income of workers and the people, which is so clearly highlighted in the report of the third post-troika evaluation. in this report, the European Commission again insists on facilitating redundancies and precariousness and criticises the increase in the minimum wage with false arguments on the impact on employment and competitiveness, failing to hide that, in its view, good labour reforms are those that liquidate workers' rights and favour low wages. He also stressed the need to continue the supposed reforms of the previous government, but we well know that these reforms are. In recent times, they have led to economic recession and stagnation, to the weakening of the productive apparatus, to a brutal level of unemployment, to low wages and work insecurity, to mass emigration, to the growing control of the national economy by large national and foreign capital, to the destruction of public services and to the degradation of social support, to the spread of poverty and poverty and to the worsening of external dependence. The European Commission's requirements for the continuation of the policies of exploitation and impoverishment that have infern the lives of Portuguese people stand in stark contrast to the report of 3. the assessment with the concern that Portugal will be unable to ensure payment of the debt service. The European Commission drops the mask when it states that the risks of non-compliance may be contained if Portugal continues the path of consolidation of public accounts and structural reforms, which in the terminology of the European Commission simply means continuing the path of exploitation and impoverishment of workers and the people. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the interference of the institutions of the European Union has a framework given to it by the Stability and Growth Pact, by economic and monetary union and by the budgetary treaty. These are instruments which, as the CFP has denounced from the outset, allow the institutions of the European Union to condition and limit our sovereign options, imposing policies that do not serve the interests of Portugal and Portuguese. They translate into constraints and conditionalisms that create serious obstacles to a reversal of the policy of exploitation, impoverishment and national decline imposed by the former PSD/CDS Government and which have in particular prevented that in the State budget for 2016 if it was further in the necessary policy of replacing rights and income and defending the social functions of the State. The constraints and conditionalities resulting from the Stability and Growth Pact, economic and monetary union and the budgetary treaty do not have the same expression for all the Member States of the European Union. For some, like Portugal, a few tenths more in the budget deficit expose a violent reaction from the European Commission ; for others, with greater economic and demographic weight, the achievement of targets for deficit or public debt benefits more kindness and flexibility. This is indissociable from the nature and objectives of the so-called European construction, geared towards the concentration of power in Europe's major capitalist powers and in supranational institutions far from the control of peoples.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u96	We must say 'no' to the intolerable interferences of the European Commission, rejecting the road they want to force us ; we must not give in to pressures and blackmails ; we must be firm in pursuing the path of return of rights and income to workers and the people ; we must continue the positive measures implemented in recent months, taking them further. Only in this way can we have a view of a sovereign, more developed and fairer Portugal. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u97	Mr Paulo Sá, the Bureau records the registration, to request clarification, of two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u98	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u99	Therefore, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u100	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, it is important that the Portuguese Communist Party has brought this topic to debate because we have to talk here about Europe. This report, which has just been released in a post-Program monitoring, is normal because we have been under the Adjustment Programme and the European Commission and the IMF will assess the situation in the country. It is worth remembering here something that has been said in this report. It has been clarified that we will have an excessive deficit in 2015, as a very important thing is clarified: in terms of consolidation of public finances, measured by the structural balance, it did not exist. In other words, there was a recommendation for an improvement of 0, 6 % of the GDP of the structural balance in 2015, but there will be no improvement, there will be deterioration of about half a percentage point. Therefore, these analyses of the European Commission, according to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, are welcome as long as they are seen as such, i.e. as analyses of the country's situation, as recommendations. However, they are recommendations — and we fully agree here — that they are not to be read from a point of view of subservience but, I would say, equally with regard to the European Commission, considering to what extent these recommendations are fair or not, and that some will be fair and others will have a different view from that which we share in relation to the future of the country. The PS has a perspective on treaties and the pact that is different from the PSD/CDS government. We believe that there is a need to rethink a number of things, particularly the budgetary treaty. Moreover, it will soon be seen that not only Portugal but several countries are not in a position to implement the budgetary treaty in its entirety, and soon the European Union, in particular, will realize that this treaty will need to be amended. Mr Paulo Sá, the question I would like to put to you is the following: do you consider, for example, that Spain has already presented its stability programme and will have an excessive deficit, which would be useful, in a European strategy in Portugal, to think of a multilateral strategy and to dialogue with countries which are in a precarious situation of excessive deficit and which will have many difficulties, not allowing the relationship to be restricted to the Commission-Portugal relationship but rather a more multilateral strategy? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u101	To reply, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u102	Mr President, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, I am grateful for the question you raised. I would like to begin by saying that this report submitted by the European Commission has concrete aspects, which I referred to in my political statement, such as criticism of the increase in national minimum wage. With these measures, what the European Union wants to do is to condition our country's sovereign options. Portugal had for many years had the minimum frozen wage, the workers suffered a low-wage policy which was carried out by the previous Government and now there is a positive objective to increase the national minimum wage. There has already been an increase this year and these increases should continue. The European Union appears in this report with false arguments on the impact on economic growth and competitiveness, trying to create obstacles and hinder that path, and that is what we reject. It is an interference in national affairs and an attack on our sovereignty. The European Union, with these concrete recommendations, as I said, and others that are in this report, tries to condition the path that is being pursued. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, it is clear from the position that the European Union and the European Commission have had during the State budget, because these kinds of attitudes of interference, blackmail and pressure are not now much behind. And already in the debate of the State budget, when it was the presentation of the outline, they tried by all means to condition the free and sovereign options of our country so that those positive signal measures that we value, which are in the State budget and have been approved before, which, being limited, give urgent response to the problems of the Portuguese. And the European Commission has also tried to condition Portugal's options. There is no doubt that the European Union, the European Commission and the institutions of the European Union will continue to do everything within their reach, using these instruments which I mentioned, to try to condition our country's options, to try to clear this path of reversal of the course that was followed by the previous government and to create conditions for the return to the policy that was carried out within the scope of the plan of the troika by the PSD/CDS Government, the liquidation of labour rights, the liquidation of social rights, the confiscation of income, the attack on the social functions of the State and the taxing of labour income. This is what the European Union wants and that is what we must oppose, resisting these pressures and continuing the path that has been initiated and taking more steps. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u103	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u104	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this matter to the Assembly of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear today that the European Commission imposes austerity after knowing that austerity is devastating Europe, it is destroying human rights, it is destroying lives. The European Commission is moving where it should not and where it cannot. The European Commission 'plant' news in newspapers to condition democratically elected governments. The European Commission determines the delivery of banks at balance prices, even though this implies the loss of EUR 3000 million to Portuguese taxpayers, only because it believes it should determine what the Portuguese banking system is. The European Commission applies arbitrary rules: it requires Greece what does not require Portugal, demands Portugal what does not require Spain, demands Spain what does not require France and crushes those who do not obey it. Mr. PS spoke of an equal relationship, but there is no equal relationship with the European Commission. The European Commission crushes those who do not obey it and press who understands: it is faithful to some states and to some countries, but it is not to others. The European Commission does not want to know about the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic, does not want to know about the Portuguese Government, does not want to know about Portuguese democracy, does not want to know about the country; it has its own agenda and, worse than everything, has its own power, a power that is not controlled, it is not voteable, it does not speak our language, it does not obey our courts, it does not want to know our votes or our opinion. That is why the European Commission and its technicians — who live in rooms in front of their computer to determine the lives of thousands of people here in the world of countries that obey the European Commission — can afford to say that the national minimum wage in Portugal is very high. It is that these technicians will never know what it is to live in a country with €530 per month; with electricity bills to pay, with income to pay, with unemployment like what we have. And worse than anything, not only do they not know what it is to live with €530 per month as they will never vote for those people who live with €530 per month.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u105	Madam Member, I will ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u106	And that is the greatest impunity for all: the European Commission is not going to vote, it is not voting! So, Mr President, I end by leaving this challenge, which I think is very clear: every day we will be called upon to make a decision and ask whether in every important decision for our country we will be on the side of Brussels against the national interest or whether we will be able to face Brussels to defend the interests of the country. In the case of the Left Block — and I think that is also the position of the CFP — the answer is very clear: we will defend the interests of the country and what we consider to be the best for the Portuguese citizens and those who live in Portugal, against the authoritarian taxes of Brussels. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u107	To reply, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I thank you for your question. I would begin by saying, agreeing with you, that what the European Commission wants with these interferences, with this campaign of pressure and blackmail, is to impose a wrong path, a path that was followed in the past by the former PSD/CDS government and that is a path contrary to the interests of Portugal and Portuguese. The European Commission, using instruments such as the Stability and Growth Pact, the budgetary treaty, economic and monetary union, tries to impose on the Portuguese people solutions that do not serve the interests of Portugal. But it has a duality of criteria, which have already been mentioned here today, and when it comes to large Member States, both economic and demographic, the speech is different. We have also recently seen the case of Spain, which has resolved not to meet the targets of the deficit and to have a deficit of more than 3 % for the year, thus not leaving the excessive deficit, not having been well known by the European Commission. But if Portugal wants to present, in the current political situation, a deficit of a few tenths is a scandal, it already compromises everything and more and the European Union uses all the instruments at its disposal to try to prevent that path. I wanted to finish, Mrs Deputy, with a note on why the PSD and the CDS have decided not to come to this debate on 3. the post-troika assessment, which is a very simple reason: they agree with everything that the European Union and the European Commission want to impose on Portugal. They agree with the reduction of the national minimum wage, agree with the liberalisation of redundancies, agree with the cuts in pensions, with the final cuts in wages. That is what the PSD and CDS have done during the four years they have been in the government and now do not hide their wish that the European Commission, using all the instruments at its disposal, will be able to implement a policy of interference and blackmail leading to the resumption of these policies. But here we will be to reject the interferences of the European Commission, not to give in to blackmail and pressure from the European Union, to reject the direction they want us to take and that the PSD and CDS will support by continuing the measures that have been taken and that need continuity. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u109	We turn to the next political statement and have the floor of Mr Paulo Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u110	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: It is precisely one year ago that the PSD Government took possession of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. After an expressive election victory with an absolute majority, the leader of the Madeira PSD, Miguel Albuquerque, took the place of President of the Government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. With a reforming electoral programme, with clear and responsible electoral promises, the voters of Madeira and Porto Santo gave a clear victory to the PSD. Since the day of the takeover of the new government, the reformative and demanding spirit of the executive of Madeira has been constant. With only one year of government, in a four-year term, many of the promises for the legislature have already been fulfilled. This Government of Madeira PSD, since the first day, has decided to maintain an exemplary institutional relationship with all national sovereignty bodies and with the Parliament of Madeira, and has succeeded. The Madeira Government has regularly moved to the Regional Legislative Assembly to be voted on by all parties and by all Members. The relationship between the Government of Madeira and the Government of the Republic is also institutionally exemplary. The regular meetings between the President of the Government of Madeira and the Prime Minister, who has already officially visited the region, are clear examples of this. Although they are different parties, it has been a rule to maintain the good institutional environment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A year ago, the PSD won 24 Members in the elections for the Madeira Parliament. An absolute majority far from the second party, which conquered 13 Members, and far from the Socialist Party that in Madeira is the fourth political formation, with five Members, less 19 than the PSD. Despite this absolute majority, the SDP in Madeira has never been tempted to be an absolute government. On the contrary, the Madeira PSD has the democratic culture of welcoming good ideas from other political sectors, provided that, of course, they do not divert the programme under way or involve budgetary imbalances. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to bring you, quickly, some objective data from the current Social-Democrat governance in Madeira. At the political level, as I have already told you, the credibility of the Madeira Legislative Assembly is more than obvious and also the reduction in the funding of political parties by 40%. At the budgetary level, more than half of the expenditure, more specifically 56 % of the total expenditure in Madeira, goes to the social area — I repeat, more than half, which turns into a clear bet of this PSD government. Also last year the Regional Government managed to unlock for Madeira an amount of EUR 43 million from the Cohesion Fund, and it also managed to extend the deadline for debt amortisation, which alleviated the region by EUR 24 million per year. Two victories won with the support of the then Prime Minister, Pedro Passos Coelho. In fact, it is the objective of the Madeira PSD to continue rebuilding the financial sustainability of the region, consolidating our public accounts. And we have certainly achieved a great victory: the victory of credibility. Madeira is a region that fulfills its obligations and honours contracts with its suppliers and its creditors. The Social-Democratic Government of Madeira acts, as well as a good person, as serious people, because, for us, paying debt is not a child thing. For us, paying debt is something of serious people and that's exactly what we are. [[BE's protests.]] Madeira's accounts, at the end of last year, showed that the overall debt of the region was reduced by EUR 376 million in just one year — an effort of rigour and responsibility in the public accounts. It has also been improved, and much, the social mobility allowance for air connections between the Continent and Madeira. A maximum fee ceiling of 86 € was created for residents and 65 € for students, a quite important measure. Another victory to be noted is that the Social-Democratic Government of Madeira has renegotiated public-private partnerships, saving in the end EUR 280 million. Of course, a very important savings for the safes of the region. Madeira also wants more investment—it is already having and it will have more! With more investment there will be the creation of more wealth and more employment. That is why, among other measures, the Madeira Regional Government has been associated with the promotion of the Madeira International Business Centre.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u111	Don't! It's a financial square!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u112	That is why we are disappointed that some political parties sitting in this House of the Republic, as well as in the Parliament of Madeira, are associated with those who want to destroy the business centre, which is transparent, has demanding supervision, enormous supervision and national and international control. The Madeira International Business Centre is not an offshore, it is not a financial square. Only because of ignorance, irresponsibility or bad faith, as I have already stated in this Chamber, is that you can confuse the International Business Centre of Madeira with an offshore.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u113	I was expecting you to call him an offshore!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u114	It is a centre which is recalled to represent 15 % of Madeira's total tax revenue but also 12 % of Portugal's foreign direct investment. In addition, it employs 3000 highly qualified and well overwhelmed people. As for tourism, Madeira last year had its best year ever, which shows that it has increased to double the promotion of destination has taken effect in both Porto Santo and Madeira. In addition, Madeira was considered by the World Tourism Organization as the best island destination in the world. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude, one of the priorities taken by the Madeira PSD on an election campaign, and that the Regional Government maintains as a high priority, has to do with the construction of the new hospital. This is a project that exceeds regional responsibility, becoming a genuine national project, such is its importance and need, but also, of course, due to the investment involved. This project follows the schedule previously established and happily counts with the enthusiasm of the central government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u115	Mr President, I will ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u116	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why we, PSD Madeira, say that we are not afraid of being what we are, a Social-Democratic and Self-Governing Government, able to meet the challenges of the century and proud of the extraordinary past done in Madeira in the last four decades — years of economic progress, years of social progress and years of cultural progress! That is why we look at the future with optimism and fearless: we look at the future with a smile, of course, well-made. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u117	And with disciplinary processes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u118	Mr President, the Bureau has four requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u119	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u120	All right. The first request for clarification is from Mr Carlos Pereira. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that I am a little surprised by the intervention I have just heard and perhaps even start by asking whether Mr Paulo Neves has not been wrong at the door of the Assembly — perhaps he should not be in this House but in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira — because what he has just done was an assessment of the governance of the PSD and, as you know, the governance of the PSD in the Autonomous Region of Madeira should be monitored by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u122	Actually, I'm not surprised. This has been, in fact, the PSD stance. The PSD has systematically disrespected regional autonomy and has done so again now, because whoever controls the action of the government, I repeat, is the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, not the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, I would have many things to say about what you mentioned here, but who is monitoring the regional government, I repeat, is the PS Madeira, in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it is regrettable that you did not do what you should, which was to go up to the rostrum here in the House, and say what has happened in recent times. This is because, Mr President, over the past 100 days, the Socialist Party Government has already done more for the Madeirans than the PSD Government in four years. That is what you should have mentioned! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I repeat, this was what the honourable Member should have done, from that rostrum here in the House, and we would understand what the honourable Member was doing, but otherwise you regionalised the Assembly of the Republic and made a genuine party rally, without feet or heads, which does not dignify the Assembly of the Republic and question the autonomy of the autonomous regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u123	Mr Paulino Ascension has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u124	Mr President, Mr Paulo Neves, you live in Lisbon, is established here many years ago and perhaps by that circumstance you do not know the regional reality at all. It is true that the PSD was elected with an absolute majority, with many promises and, over a year, the realization is zero. He promised to take the ferry connection to Madeira — zero! He promised a cargo plane — zero! He promised to reduce austerity and improve people’s standard of living — zero! They approved a budget similar to those of previous years, in force of the PAEF ( Economic and Financial Assistance Programme ). They have changed their faces, they are more smiling, they satisfy democratic choreography in the regional Parliament, but policies are the same, subject to the same interests as ever, of those who have grown and enriched at the cost of the regional budget. They didn't create structural imbalance? Oh, my God! And the bankruptcy of Madeira who created it? Tell us. And the debt of the Funchal House, which was ruled by the President of the Regional Government Miguel Albuquerque, who three times resorted to extraordinary debt recovery programmes in a short time? Who ruled it? It's empty. This PSD governance is, as always, limited to managing the situation, managing the interests, managing the money available. He has no vision of the future, nor do he have any solutions. He mentioned here the renegotiation of public-private partnerships, but they were renegotiated in favour of the private,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u125	It's true! Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u126	... because it removed their area of activity as a percentage higher than recorded savings. The'success' is measured by unemployment, because that is the region of the country with the highest unemployment and where it grows. This is the great measure of the "success" of this year of governance. He referred here to the example of CINM ( International Trade Centre for Madeira ) and qualified employment. Where is he? Give examples of qualified employment. What are the successful, innovative companies? What are the new activities that you have brought to Madeira to diversify the economy, to ensure sustainability and future for generations, so that you do not have to emigrate, how is this happening? But no, there is none of these activities there; what there are are merely tax escape schemes, easy enrichment, nothing different from what we find in Panama. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u127	To reply, Mr Paul Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u128	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, I find it absolutely unbelievable to you when you consider that Madeira is not a topic of national interest or the Assembly of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u129	I understand what you mean, but I am a Member elected by the Madeira PSD and I am a member of the Democratic Social Parliamentary Group, which is in fact — and if there were any doubts about your comment, we have concluded the autonomy party in Portugal. The Social Democratic Party, at national level, has an extraordinary pride in talking about autonomy, in which Madeira and the Azores are spoken here in the Assembly of the Republic. I say more to you: how is it that you, who is the leader of the Socialist Party of Madeira, find it useless to speak of Madeira in the Assembly of the Republic and, instead of being in the Parliament of Madeira, are you in Parliament here in Lisbon? What are you doing here that speaking of Madeira in the national Parliament is not worth it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u130	He didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u131	What are you doing here on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays? It was supposed to be in the Wooden Parliament! [[PSD applause.]] But there is one thing I have noticed, and with which I was very pleased, both in your speech and in that of Mr Paulino Ascension, that I tried to realize: it is that no one has answered the numbers or the facts. I have presented several figures on the reduction of debt in Madeira, on social progress in the last year in Madeira, on the dignity of the institutions we have done in Madeira and the honourable Members last year. Ladies and gentlemen did not point to a single wrong, because they know that this is the truth. The Madeira is different and the honourable Member, who is in contact with the Regional Parliament — and I repeat, I should be there — knows perfectly well that I am speaking the truth. Mr Paulino Ascension, you talked about some promises we made last year, but I don't know if you noticed that I didn't go to the gallery to talk about the four-year balance sheet, I went to make a one-year balance sheet. This is because the Government of the Democratic Social Party in Madeira is one year old and the election promises are worth four years. You don't want us to meet in a year what we promise to do in four! The honourable Member spoke about the issue of debt. So, then, let's talk about debt. Do you think that the Social Democratic Party of Madeira should not be proud when it managed to pay only EUR 376 million in debt in one year? We put the accounts in order! I'm telling you more: our debt, compared to the one we had when we had the adjustment plan, in 2012, decreased by 863 million euros, I repeat, from that point on to now. I say more to you: as far as the tax burden in Madeira is concerned, you know perfectly well that it has been reduced, and it will be even more, for example, in the fuel tax. You know that this is a truth and you also know that for the first time in Madeira, at the end of last year, a surplus in the regional accounts of EUR 150 million. See for years that didn't happen either in Madeira or in the Azores...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u132	In the Azores, yes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u133	I'm glad Mr. Carlos César also reminds me of that, but we got him in Madeira. That is why, Mr President, you do not understand these attacks and their doubts. As for the International Business Centre of Madeira, I will not let you know what you should know. But if you are so curious, go visit the Madeira area where the International Business Centre is located, contact the companies, get to know the companies and the people who work there. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u134	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u135	Mr President, Mr Paulo Neves, firstly in a democratic manner, wanted to welcome the intervention he made, which recalls a date, recalls the first of the four electoral defeats that the Socialist Party of Secretary-General António Costa suffered. If you remember, this began in Madeira, in which the Socialist Party was defeated throughout the line, and continued in the legislative elections, in which, before an absolute majority that was promised and required, even motivated a change of leader from the internal point of view of the Socialist Party, you lost. He also lost the interim elections in São João da Madeira and also lost the presidential elections, for candidates who officially and informally, candidate and candidate, were supporting. Therefore, it does not cease to be a curious date because it began here, in fact, the first of the four defeats of Secretary-General António Costa. I would also like to tell you, with equal democratic frankness, that the CDS was the second most voted party, and therefore the largest party of opposition in Madeira, where we will make this opposition firmly but constructively. We recognize what you have stressed, in particular the importance of the normalization of institutional relations from the point of view of the Regional Government of Madeira with other institutions and other sovereign bodies. It seems to us that this is something that we must indisputably point out, as we also recognise that the reduction of the funding of political parties by around 40 % has long been claimed by the CDS, it is recognised, and always rejected by the former Regional Government of the PSD, was done this year by the new regional government, which Mr has pointed out. We recognize that something has been done in relation to the recovery of significant delays in payment to suppliers, to small and medium-sized enterprises, but still, Mr Deputies, it seems to us that there is much more to do, because they are small and medium-sized companies that need that same payment. Of course, we recognize that the former Government of the CDS and PSD has done much to maintain the International Business Centre in Madeira, that the former Government of the Socialist Party had abandoned, and more has done at the level of air transport, which was something that the former Government of the Socialist Party had also abandoned, having been the former PSD / CDS Government that achieved a solution. Even though there was a way to go, particularly in the search for an equalization with what happens with the Autonomous Region of the Azores, this path and that recovery was made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u136	Mr. Colleague wants to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u137	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Mr President, I cannot but recall in question that if there is indeed this debt, if Madeira's public accounts are as they are, this is due to the former PSD Government. I believe that this self-criticism is good from a democratic point of view, and that is what I would like to hear from the honourable Member here, because I believe that it is good for people to make that self-criticism themselves. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u138	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u139	Mr President, Mr. Paulo Neves, when we heard your statement, we could not fail to see a real clean-up operation, not capitals — do not be scared! — but political, whitening the political image of the PSD / Madeira. Did you say here that the Autonomous Region of Madeira is a model in the balance of public accounts? [[PCP and PS rice.]] Mr President, we can only smile at this information, because this is something that we have all been together for many years. The honourable Member is here to say that Madeira's offshore is not an offshore, it is the International Business Centre, and he has also said here that the PSD has won a great victory in the last regional elections. Mr, if we remember well, the PSD kept the majority by three votes and only the PSD will know how it managed them because they were the most contested elections that there is memory in Portuguese democracy, in which several political forces questioned the regularity of these elections with the Constitutional Court. Therefore, it is not possible to have a more tangible victory than this after the results that the PSD had had in the past in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. But, Mr President, the question I would like to ask you is very specific: Mr spoke of a very relevant issue, that of the Funchal hospital. For several years now, the Assembly of the Republic, on a proposal from the CFP, adopted a resolution to believe that the construction of Madeira's hospital should be considered under the Regional Finance Act as a project of common interest, i.e. that it could count on the financing of the Republic in collaboration with the local government bodies. Once again, as you know, this matter is placed in this Parliament and we hope that it will continue. Now I put the following question: since the PSD has been in front of the Regional Government of Madeira for so many years and has been the PSD in the last legislature in front of the Government of the Republic, why has this project of common interest ever advanced, despite the fact that there is a resolution adopted by the Assembly of the Republic in that regard? This is the question I would like you to answer. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u140	To reply, Mr Paul Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u141	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, as I understand it, you have doubts about the legitimacy of the victory of the Socialist Party of Madeira, and that is serious. This is the first time you hear here in Parliament to raise the issue of the legitimacy and seriousness of the elections in Madeira. [[Don't you guys agree?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u142	The honourable Member should have more responsibility when he speaks in elections in our country, which we are a free country, not questioning the legitimate results of the people of Madeira and Porto Santo in the regional elections. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u143	It is that when you speak in a small victory you will laugh, comparing the number of Members we have conquered with the number of Members you have won in Madeira. To question the legitimacy of the Democrat people of Madeira and Porto Santo in an electoral act, Mr. Deputies, we only do not lead to harm because it comes from a party that is the Communist Party. If it came from a party that we considered in democracy, we would have made its claim wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u144	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u145	What's that talk? But what is this? [[Protests by PCP MP Antonio Filipe, beating hands at the end of the bench.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u146	I would also like to tell you, Mr President, about the question of smiling at our election victory, that I deeply regret this interpretation. It must smile, because the intervention I made was an intervention with macroeconomic data from Madeira that are very positive and that reflect the fight against debt that we had in Madeira through a responsible, demanding plan that we adopted and that we were actually able to comply with.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u148	Mr Nuno Magalhães, thank you very much for your comments and also for your questions. As for what he tells us, there is no doubt that the Democratic Social Party of Madeira, since the first day, since our victory, wanted and achieved institutional normalization with the central government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u149	What about a hospital?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u150	... both with the previous government with whom we had an exceptional, very correct relationship, and also, of course, with the current government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u151	Say some alarms and don't answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u152	At the economic level of Madeira, the results are already in sight. Last year we had the best tourist year, both in Madeira and in Porto Santo; the hotel occupation was never so high: the number of cruises that have gone to the port of Funchal has never been so high; we were the largest, at European level, in terms of increasing cruises. These are economic data. in a region whose area of tourism represents 24 %, it is an extraordinary victory for the Madeira economy. As for the support of the CDS-PP on some of the positions we asked the central government when it was a coalition government of the Social Democratic Party with the CDS-PP, we only have to thank. In fact, there has been an exceptional, correct relationship, and we have, in fact, only to thank the People's Party's share.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u153	It's nothing from the hospital!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u154	As for the issue of the new hospital for Madeira, I must say that this is a huge project, with a huge investment that is necessary for Madeira. Fortunately, if the Communist Party says it also supports the construction of the new hospital for Madeira, as the other parties have done, we are satisfied with this position, because it is a sign that the hospital will be built. In conclusion, Mr President, let me just give you some information on Madeira's economic issue, which has been addressed here: for the first time, in six years, last year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u155	Mr. Deputies, be brief, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u156	... more companies were set up than in previous years. We created more than 190 companies in Madeira last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u157	It's a facade!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u158	In the real estate sector, which is decisive in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, there was a 36 % increase. That is, numbers are not missing to prove that you were right about what I said in the gallery: Madeira is different, it is better! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u159	Mr António Filipe, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u160	Mr. President, to defend the honor of the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u161	Mr António Filipe, please explain the reasons.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u162	Mr President, it is not to question the honourable Member because he did not answer the only question I asked him, but because he considered that the Portuguese Communist Party was not a party to democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u163	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u164	Mr President, Mr Paul Neves, the fact that I did not want to answer the only question I asked him passes us by the side is with you. The honourable Member said that I said here that the last elections in Madeira were contested by several political forces. Now, with representation in this Parliament, they have been challenged either by the CDS-PP, or by the CFP, by several political forces. I didn't say anything else besides that. I am referring to one objective: the elections were contested by several political forces. Mr President, to say that you are not only concerned about this statement because it comes from the Communist Party, which is not a party to democracy, is very bad for you in this democratic Parliament. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] of the parties that are represented here, the party that I am proud to represent is not only a founding party of democracy, as was the party that fought for 48 years for democracy in Portugal. If you want to be respected in this House — and I think you will — you will have to withdraw what you have just said. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u165	To reply, Mr Paul Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u166	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, who called into question democracy was not me, it was Mr. It was the honourable Member who raised doubts about the seriousness of the electoral result in Madeira, it was not me! [[PSD applause.]] So if there was anyone here who made some statement that should be examined in detail was Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u168	Because the election result in Madeira was polled by all institutions that have to vote for election results in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u169	But were they challenged or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u170	That is why anyone who did not accept, or seems to have not yet accepted, the democratic electoral results in Madeira was not me, Mr Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u171	Have a spine to remove what you said!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u172	He forgot that much of the election results in Madeira were counted, as you know, for the second time for some reason, and the result was what we saw. Therefore, Mr President, there is no doubt about Madeira's election result in relation to the Democratic Social Party and its party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u173	It is the will of the people!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u174	So if you want to be a respected Member in this Parliament and also in the country and in Madeira, respect the electoral outcome of the people of Madeira and the people of Porto Santo. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u175	To present the last political statement, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since World War II Europe had not dealt with a crisis of refugees so overwhelming and so dramatic. The International Organisation for Migration (IOM) points to an estimate of a total of 1 million refugees and migrants who entered Europe in 2015. Thousands have died trying. We see, we hear and we read. We can't ignore it! In 2014, an average of 42 000 people per day became refugees, applicants for international protection or internally displaced — a growth that quadrupled in just four years. If they were the population of one country, they would represent 24. the most populous nation in the world. These are the worrying figures in the 2015 UNHCR Global Trends Report ( UN High Commissioner for Refugees ). We are witnessing a paradigm shift, entering a new era in which the scale of global displacement and the necessary response to this phenomenon is clearly superior to everything that has already happened. For the former High Commissioner Antonio Guterres, and I quote, "it is frightening to see that, on the one hand, there is increasing impunity for the conflicts that begin, and on the other hand, there is an absolute inability of the international community to work together to put an end to wars and build a lasting peace". The UNHCR report shows that refugees and internally displaced persons have grown in all regions of the world. In the last five years, at least 15 conflicts have begun or resumed. There is still an alarming fact: half of the world's refugees are young people and children under the age of 18. Every day we are faced with more dramas, more deaths, more abuses in the crossing and even in existing camps. The Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean Sea are today the sea of our dismay and a liquid cemetery, which still tears the thousands who have perished in it. We see, we hear and we read. We can't ignore it! The impact of poverty and global conflicts does not stop at national borders, and therefore it is necessary to ensure respect for our international commitments, where the 1951 Geneva Convention is included, a cornerstone of the right to asylum and international protection. It must be possible to reconcile these international commitments with the security of our borders, without failing to create the right conditions for the economic prosperity and social cohesion of Europe. It is a demanding balance that requires coordinated actions, but without ever forgetting that human rights are preferential, indivisible and do not know geographical restrictions. Despite all the efforts of UNHCR and the European Union, which has made progress towards the implementation of priority actions under the European Agenda for Migration, the situation remains very problematic and far from being controlled. What is required of Europe is very little, since the presence of refugees is much greater in the poorest countries. In fact, 86% of refugees are in economically less developed regions or countries. But in recent months, situations of violence and the creation of discriminatory measures relating to the reception of refugees have multiplied, which flagrantly oppose the primacy of human rights and put the status of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights in crisis. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, this Parliament has come to express the view that it is necessary to find political and institutional responses that reject any initiative aimed at closing borders, preserving the Schengen Agreement and the free movement of persons and that effective mechanisms of solidarity are adopted between the Member States which face greater pressure in this crisis, as is the case in Greece. Portugal has had in this process a position of great humanism, mirroring the good practices of reception and integration that have placed us over the years at a summit, being considered the second best country in reception and reception practices. The Portuguese Government, in this area, by expressing its willingness to welcome more refugees, reveals that for us the burden sharing is little burden (hard), but above all it is sharing, i.e., sharing. Solidarity, tolerance and fraternity have always been the key words for the Socialist Party that have always opened Portugal to each other, to differences and multiculturality. The Prime Minister's position to want to receive more refugees than the defined quota is only a clear demonstration of solidarity, which should be followed by other European governments. His recent visit to Greece has once again demonstrated our delivery and availability in the face of this crisis and in the face of human suffering, to which we are not and will never be indifferent. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The XXI Constitutional Government has adopted an active policy of solidarity in the resettlement and relocation of recognised refugees by the European Union. The decentralization policy that underpins the process of relocating refugees in Portugal has so far involved 41 Portuguese municipalities, from north to south of the country, which reveals the huge availability of local power and social institutions. Portugal is thus the third country in relocation and the first in population terms. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It has been very important to raise awareness, of public opinion and of the institutions, oriented towards building a positive and supportive view of Portuguese society in relation to these new communities that represent a huge potential for development at local and national level. The Member States of the Union must realize that denying the reception of refugees will be the same as denying the principles and values that form and anchor this institution. Above all, we must seek structural solutions that go through conflict prevention, permanent international supervision, condemnation of violations and development assistance and optimization of existing mechanisms. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The collective challenge of creating a culture of refugees with high standards of protection, with a particular focus on refugee children and women, is pressing, is fundamental and must begin in rights education, as it comes from the Charter of the Council of Europe on Education for Democratic Citizenship and Human Rights Education. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude, this is the time to be a lighthouse and solidarity Europe, honoring the international conventions signed and the catalogue of rights of the 1951 Geneva Convention. We must understand the scope of the words « international protection », « refugee », « persecution », « war» and « human rights ». This is the time of Europe and of action! It is time for more Europe to emphasize that refugees are victims of persecution, violation of fundamental rights, fleeing wars and armed conflicts, which are not terrorists...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u177	I'm going to ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u178	I will finish, Mr. President. He said refugees are not terrorists, but victims of terror perpetrated by regimes and systems that do not know what the right to have rights means. This is the time to speak clearly, without forbidden words, because forbidden should be to die without hope in the eyes. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u179	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record three entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u180	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u181	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme which the Socialist Party brings today to debate is certainly a true humanitarian drama. A humanitarian drama for two reasons. Firstly, for thousands of refugees who lose their lives trying to reach Europe — there are numbers that point to almost 11 000 people who have lost their lives in the last four years — but it is also a humanitarian drama because of the fact that they are confined to refugee camps, many of them with very poor conditions. I speak with knowledge of cause because I was very recently in the Eleonas field, where I had exactly the opportunity to witness the difficulties these men and women face when they arrive in Europe. The truth is that the European Union has failed. We have recently concluded the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, which is what the PSD did not welcome with great enthusiasm because we believe that this agreement is transitional, it is to make time for us to reach a more definitive and more coherent solution. Indeed, there is a need for greater coherence in the response given by the European Union, a response which includes border security, which safeguards mobility of movement, including the movement of persons, but above all a serious and rapid response to refugees and also economic migrants. The European Union has a decisive role here, from the countries of origin. It must have a much more active contribution to the stabilization of these countries from which refugees originate. Moreover, it is clear that the European Union has failed in the process of sorting and relocating refugees. Portugal has already been willing to receive more than 10 000 refugees, under resettlement programmes, to relocate the Portugal-Turkey agreement and also bilateral agreements with third countries, but the fact is that, despite this demonstrated availability, only a few dozen refugees have arrived in Portugal because the process is slow, slow and, above all, ineffective in the face of the needs and the number of refugees. We have already identified this problem in this Parliament several times: the timeliness of the process. The question I put to you, honourable Member, is what the contribution is, what the Socialist Party has to propose to speed up the process of sorting and relocating these refugees, to give a real and serious response to this human drama. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u183	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u184	Mr President, Madam Member, on the part of the Left Block, we welcome and welcome the availability that has been demonstrated so far by the Portuguese Government to receive more refugees because, in fact, it is nothing more than the most essential respect, which is due to us and which must compel us, for human rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u186	However, and taking the quote you made about responsibility in existing conflicts and conflicts, it is absolutely essential when we discuss this issue, because the courage to admit that responsibility has never existed and continues to exist, unfortunately. And speaking of responsibilities, we need to talk about the agreement with Turkey, which has already been mentioned. It is an agreement that was called into question by UNHCR itself, and well. It is an agreement which is called into question every day, by all the people of various NGOs and not only, who are on the ground, particularly in Greece, to assist these people who flee from war and death.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u187	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u188	Therefore, this agreement is embarrassing to Europe, it is the return to the worst moments of our common history and there is no turning back to this vision.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u190	at present, refugee camps in Greece are no longer refugee camps. at this moment, these fields are real camps of arrest and deportation of people who need our help, who are entitled to such aid, in the light of international law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u191	Exactly! It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u192	Therefore, regardless of whether we can accept, and well, under the refugee relocation programmes, more people who want to come to Portugal, and that is to be praised, there is a pressing need to finally admit the political responsibility that this agreement with Turkey means, on the day we are informed that the European Union will give additional EUR 110 billion for this agreement. We therefore continue to give money to Turkey, to « sweep the problem under the carpet » and to create detention and deportation camps in the whole of Europe, as in the worst moments of our history. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u193	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u194	Mr President, Mrs Susana Amador, has brought here an issue which has in fact been debated in the Assembly of the Republic and which we cannot remain indifferent, but the honourable Member has not dealt with matters that we consider important in the analysis of this refugee problem. We know that every day they are trying to get to Europe — the honourable Member said — men, women and children fleeing the war, fleeing hunger, fleeing poverty, but fleeing because the countries from which they originate, the countries from which they originate had processes of interference, destabilization, provoked and encouraged by the countries of the European Union and by allies of the European Union. in this sense, Mrs Deputy, it is important that we also take these questions into account in the analysis of this problem. The honourable Member spoke about the need for reception responses for these people. What's going on? When these people reach Europe and the countries of the European Union, the conditions of reception they find are inhuman conditions, conditions that violate international rights and violate the principles of the United Nations Charter. And what we have to effectively condemn are these practices and, above all, we must condemn what is the agreement that the European Union has established with Turkey, which requires these men, women and children to be expelled. And it serves precisely to pay Turkey to serve as a buffer so that these men, women and children do not reach Europe. You mentioned the position of UNHCR here. The honourable Member knows exactly what position UNHCR has taken with regard to the operation of hotspots and other entities, leaving these places because they violate precisely their principles.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u195	Mrs Carla Cruz, I will ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u196	I shall finish by referring to another aspect and to ask you a question. The honourable Member spoke of the routes and shipwreck in the Mediterranean this week. The CFP has long warned, in fact, as other entities have warned, that the change of routes and the failure to combat trafficking and the causes of these routes lead to more problems, to situations like those that happened this week. Madam Member, we welcome the initiative and efforts that the Portuguese Government has made in this area, but we need to go further and above all we need to fight and reject the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u197	In reply, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u198	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions put by the honourable Members, in which the importance of this subject is also stressed, for this drama that we are unfortunately watching every day. With regard to the questions put by Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, the truth is that, above all, what we want and what we need is lasting solutions and not transitional or temporary solutions. And the lasting solutions are those that UNHCR advocates, which are precisely conflict prevention, protection of people from their place of origin and go to the roots of these problems, that exodus which has led to the fact that we now have over 400 million refugees in the world. That is to say, prevent, prevent and, above all, monitor and monitor the problems in countries. That is the basic question, to the root of the problem, and which came from the European migration agenda as one of the main axes of intervention. Of course, Portugal has had in this process an example of great humanism, in fact, is the tradition of successive Portuguese governments and also Portuguese culture, and what we want to demonstrate, regardless of whether they see more or less refugees, is that Portugal wanted to be above the quota to give the example of good practice, so that other governments would follow with regard to this generosity and this welcome which Portugal placed, from the population's point of view, in the first place of relocation. I was wondering what to do to make this whole process more operational. The truth is that in this process, we alone, isolated, have achieved nothing; even if Portugal has this will, it results only if there are conjugated, coordinated solutions. Even tomorrow at the JAI (Justice and Home Affairs) meeting where the Minister of Internal Administration will be present, these issues will be discussed and will be, above all, evaluated and improved. All that has to do with the common European asylum system, which, in fact, is still a goal to be achieved, must be defined by a high and medium-scale standard of protection. That is, we will only be able to speed up and improve procedures if we can jointly look at the mechanisms at our disposal, which are many, and optimize them, either with regard to the external border through Frontex or through the Dublin mechanisms — the regulation itself will be amended — and the subjects to be discussed are aimed at improving the procedures. I hope that tomorrow the meeting will indeed succeed from the point of view of improving the instruments that the European Union has at its disposal, the European Office of Asylum Law and Financing. In other words, mechanisms are not missing, there is a need to optimize them. Let us hope that tomorrow we will be able to find a more concerted and effective solution so that there will not be this morosity of the processes and this collective anguish of those who are waiting to be welcomed and to have a better solution for the drama that you have lived through. With regard to the issues raised by the Left Block and the Communist Party, the emphasis has been placed heavily on the agreement between Europe and Turkey and, of course, on their dispute with regard to this agreement. Portugal has also been very clear about the guarantees it must offer. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u199	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u200	It is true that, with regard to this agreement, screening will be done and must be done so that asylum seekers and persons receiving international protection cannot be returned to the country of origin. As you know, there is a rule of Jesus cogens which is the principle of non-revolution, non-refoulement, as set out in Article 33. that of the Geneva Convention, to which Portugal will be particularly attentive and tomorrow these questions will be evaluated and monitored, so that there are assurances that we are not making the situation worse and treating these international protection mechanisms differently. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u201	We have thus reached the end of the discussion of the first item on our agenda today, which consisted of political declarations. We shall proceed to the second point, the Government's declaration, under Article 78 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on justice at the service of competitiveness. To open the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Justice, Francisca Van Dunem.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Justice is present in these discussions on the PNR ( National Reform Programme ) with a sense of non-alignment and availability to contribute to improving the performance of the economy. The bad functioning of justice, in particular of civil and administrative matters, remains a major obstacle to dynamism, competitiveness of businesses, as well as foreign investment in Portugal. The same is true of corruption. The European Commission's national report on Portugal at the end of February 2016 identifies the lack of effectiveness of the judicial system as structural barriers to investment and business dynamism. « rigidities in the markets of services, products and factors associated with an ineffective judicial system pose powerful obstacles to the development of economic activity», read in the conclusions of this document. And in the body of the report it can read: « Relaunching investment in Portugal is essential after the strong decline recorded during the economic crisis (... ). Other obstacles to investment include the complexity and unpredictability of administrative procedures, as well as the lack of efficiency of the judicial system(... ) ». And we find very similar formulations of these in the post-programme monitoring report, now published in April 2016. The Mission Structure for Business Capitalization coincides with this diagnosis and also identifies the weakness of the judicial system's response as a critical factor for the firm's robustness and performance. The available data indicate that the executive processes continue to dominate the activity of the courts, corresponding to more than 65% of the total expectations. Although there is a global reduction in expectations for more critical years in 2011 and 2012, the fact is that in the third quarter of 2015 there was a final suspension of 950 000 shares and the average duration of the executive proceedings was still close to four years. These data can only trouble us. in a business fabric based on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the judicial delay in debt collection facilitates default, stimulates late compliance and generates liquidity problems, which can accelerate insolvency processes with the inherent consequences of employment and the economy. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]] On the other hand, excessive decision-making time in insolvency, bankruptcy and recovery processes inhibits the timely satisfaction of the rights of creditors, companies, workers and the State. But there are improvements in this segment. Although it is far from 2014, which was a very critical year, the average duration of these processes is still nearly three years, 34 months. In the administrative area, there has been at least since 2013 a significant increase in the processes initiated and the extension of the duration of the proceedings. Between 2013 and 2015, the volume of entries rose by 50 %. At the same time, the suspension increased by 21 %. It is not possible to be indifferent to these numbers. They mirror a reality with which this country cannot live and which needs to reverse. The National Reform Programme assumes these constraints and identifies modernization as an essential pillar of its realization. The Government knows the scale and meaning of the reforms undertaken in the area of justice by the XIX Constitutional Government. But it is not in contemplation, nor is it waiting to see what happens, because that is not the function of governments and this government does not renounce the duty to act. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And to act is, of course, to evaluate — and that is what we have done. And because we have done so, we say that the reform methodology needs to be changed. We say that legislation is not enough, that many laws create noise and entropy and that identifying other solutions is not a whim but a requirement, a requirement of time that passes and, in a legislature, it is time that is not left. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The National Reform Programme is therefore oriented towards interventions that, focusing on the components of the organization, simplification and technology, effectively enable the decongesting state of the courts and, above all, ensure the regular functioning of the justice system. Corruption and economic and financial crime are another facet of obstacles to business competitiveness and economic development. The PNR places corruption at the heart of its priorities, listing a wide range of actions in both prevention and repression. The NRP points out as critical the time to clarify the crime, in particular when it is practised using computer media, and foresees, in this perspective, a set of actions to train the Judicial Police in response. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We present realistic measures and goals, objectives that make us responsible for change and which are objectives to make, obligations to transform—that is the plan that moves us. And for its realization, we will devote the best of our commitment. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u203	We are going to move on to phase two, the debate. For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u204	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mr State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrs Members: I will begin with a regret and I would ask that the Minister do not share it with any foreign investor, nor even with any national investor, of which she has also spoken because, as you know, economic stability, alongside fiscal stability, and also the proper functioning of justice are fundamental pillars and priorities for the decision to invest. It is therefore very strange and regrettable that we note that the model chosen for this debate by the Government has been a political declaration, rather than the model followed in the discussion of other themes of sectoral measures of the National Reform Programme, such as the qualification of the Portuguese, the enhancement of the territory, innovation of the Portuguese economy, or cohesion and social equality, which is discussed in an urgent debate tomorrow. Justice did not have the honour to integrate the model of urgency debate. And this is not firing, it was the government that chose to remove the justice of these issues and put it in the political statement. And it is not for one reason that we are talking about justice for 33 minutes in the political statement; in the urgent debate, we are talking about the subject for 72 minutes. So it seems to me that the government has treated justice with injustice, denied it, devalued it, treated it as a lesser thing, and this is strange in an area of sovereignty as justice is. [[PS protests.]] In short, it is clear that the government wants to talk about justice, but little. But it doesn't surprise us that either. If each of us look carefully at the National Reform Programme in the area of justice, or even at that plan that the Minister presented, the Justice + Next Action Plan, what is decipherable there? Only one PowerPoint logo with one measure and two objectives. The first objective is to increase the resolution of disputes by extrajudicial means. The second objective is to reduce expectations. The measure is to create an interface to connect the system of implementing agents to CITIUS. Mrs Minister, you know perfectly well that the reduction of expectations, of which you have also spoken, was possible not by chance, not by the former government, but comfortably expected things to happen. The reduction of expectations, which is a reality today — is the DGPJ ( Directorate-General for Justice Policy ) that says so — it was in the three years 2013, 2014 and 2015 cumulatively 26, 2 %. And yesterday, the Supreme Council of the Magistracy also said that the reforms implemented by the previous Government were positive reforms in order to reduce expectations. Therefore, Minister, it is not expected that things will happen, it is not with advertisements, pompous or circumstantial, that they will happen, it is with reforms. And we all know that the former government has reformed the Civil Procedure Code, the judicial map,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u205	Mal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u206	... the Code of Business Insolvency and Recovery, the laws of arbitration, mediation and peace judges. The question of the judicial map created a huge noise, Mrs. Minister. It is time for you to say, here in Parliament, because this opened newspapers and soon appeared on the front pages of all the regional newspapers and the Minister has already dissuasive — and that is not what I said, but that is what they have interpreted — whether it is true or not that it will reopen 23 courts. The Minister has time to answer whether or not she is in a position to confirm this because, in writing, the Minister does not say so. In writing, he says he is still studying, evaluating, monitoring, reviewing. So it's time—it's been six months! — to tell us something in particular about this. No more vacuums and announcements of principles! Madam Minister, the PSD also did not want to stay out of this debate and it is perfectly clear that it is important to help the government to create a pact — justice needs pacts and consensus — it is important to help the government to have a path, to have a path, to have a strategy for justice. We don't know what it is yet, but we hope it will be achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u207	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u208	I shall conclude by saying only this: Mrs. Minister, the draft resolution which you have entered into this Chamber today and that you may not have had time to read the word of several measures I ask you to review, which you read. And I leave this challenge here: are the Government and the Socialist Party willing or not to create this pact and this consensus?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u209	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u210	Do you accept or not accept this challenge, including in your justice policy, as soon as you have a strategy for it, are these our contributions?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u211	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u212	I conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: I believe, Madam Minister, that the courts, citizens, companies and the country will be grateful that the PS will also enter this debate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u213	At this stage of the debate, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão speaks on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u214	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mr State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrs Members: At the end of 2015, therefore, at the end of last year, a relevant consultant, under the cover of the 2015 Fiscal Competitiveness Observatory, realized that the companies surveyed indicated the functioning of justice as the biggest obstacle to investment in Portugal. And it added with relevance that this entropy had increased in 2015, that is to say, it had worsened the situation of justice in Portugal. The same was said by the Instituto Nacional de Statística, on the survey Costs of Context : the perspective of 2015 companies, which also pointed out, converging in the idea that justice was the main entropy to the investment and the operation of companies, that over the last three years ( reporting to us 2015 ), the companies surveyed did not notice any significant improvements in the situation, on the contrary. However, the European Commission has also identified, as it is obvious and well known, the functioning of justice as one of the main objectives of the functioning of the economy and attracting investment, and it is important to change that reality. He said this, in fact, underlining some reforms, but referring, for example, to reforms linked to administrative and tax courts, which are evolving more slowly than other judicial reforms. This is, as you know, a well-known euphemism to say that these reforms were simply taking steps, as we know. It is true that the Supreme Council of the Magistracy points out how positive signs are today more processes coming out than entering the courts. In abstract, it is an observation that we welcome, it is a positive indicator, but it remains to be known whether, in particular, this reality will not translate a perversion into itself, from the report of the European Parliament itself, which realized that, thanks to the previous legislative action, the costs with justice had become unsustainable — unbearable — the term is for poor citizens of small cities of the interior. In other words, it is necessary to know whether the decrease in demand does not, after all, translate into an unacceptable constraint, that is, something that translates close to the denial of justice. It is also true that the Supreme Council itself, in its assessment, says that it is very early to carry out the evaluation—in fact, Prof. Nuno Garoupa said that less than a decade was impossible to measure any change of relevance in justice. We are not going that far, but clearly we find the deadline very short to be able to offend about the results — all the more so that you well know that this observation was immediately contradicted by the Union of Judicial Officials and by the Public Ministry, which, on the contrary, have clearly observed that the situation has worsened, and has worsened seriously. But, on competitiveness and justice, it is important to mention — and the National Reform Programme says - it is unequivocally - that, and I quote, « Reforming justice is essential to improve competitiveness and the business environment, as well as to strengthen the confidence of citizens and economic actors in justice and the state. Do not keep on seeking. ” We clearly welcome this commitment from the Government, the awareness of this reality, as well as — it must be said — the serenity with which the Minister points out that the path is not the one of the constant legislative amendment. in this sense, I would like to quote Prof. Costa Andrade, who said that it is time for the Portuguese to stop being Bedouin of Law — a happy image that translates the erratic nature and pendulum of successive legislative changes, which in no way suffices the system. However, it is clear that there will be amendments and Mr Peixoto is a person who is particularly committed to presenting these amendments. In fact, that is why, as a deputy elected by the Guard, he had the opportunity to formalize questions to Mr. Minister, in particular in the sense of knowing whether he would reopen the courts of Meda, of Furnos de Algodres and of Sabugal, courts whose closing Mr. Carlos Peixoto applauded and is now concerned about reopening them. The Minister will certainly have an opportunity to respond. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Essentially, on the issue of the mobilization of technological means—and I take advantage of it to greet the Secretary of State, who has this particular responsibility—by strengthening the interfaces of operationalization and the agileization of procedures, we can give a faster answer. Time is the only lock that runs fast. In conclusion, I just wanted to say that there are those who support that restraint, budgetary rigour and reforms in the judicial system are antonymous. I am convinced that, with serenity, wisdom, thoughtfulness and sense of state, the Minister will be able to prove otherwise. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u215	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today in this House what the horizon of structural reforms in justice should be. For the Left Block, this horizon can only be one: the one of justice at the service of citizenship. We need to oppose, more than ever, the culture of the troika, which sees the performance of the judiciary as instrumental in business and business, the culture of the Constitution of the Republic, which sees in the courts the support of the rights of political, economic, social and cultural democracy. That's the competition we have to win. The competition for a more intense democracy and therefore with fewer black holes of legality; for a more intense citizenship and, therefore, with fewer black holes of rights; and for the rights of the weakest and most effective. And the justice system is crucial for Portugal to win this competition. Simplification and combat of bureaucracy? Sure! As long as he makes the courts more friends of who he needs most to be people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u217	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u218	More advanced technology? Sure! As long as it is placed at the service of greater openness of the courts to the community and it translates daily into strengthening the justice of proximity, so necessary from within the country. Better organization? Sure! Since the courts are thus helped to be houses of justice and to strengthen citizenship and not colonized entities, such as, now, the litigation of banks, insurers or investors interested in the lower leveling of rights. Competitiveness? Sure! So let us make the necessary reforms so that the receipt of credits from insolvent business workers can compete with the receipt of credits by telecommunications or insurance companies. So let us make the necessary reforms so that the jurisdiction over economic-financial crime or anti-corruption has effective conditions to compete with the incisive and implacable manner of how the same jurisdiction affects small crime or even the mere criminal fights, with the consequences we all know of the prison population.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u220	We accept the usefulness of a plan for technological modernization of the judicial system, but we want first of all to ensure that there is every guarantee that chaos in the courts is not repeated for the poor preparation of the activation of the technological infrastructure, as happened with CITIUS. And we do not accept that the technological dimension can be used to perpetuate the chronic deficit of justice officers and the blocking of promotions in the careers of judicial officials.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u221	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u222	The courts must not be an obstacle to investments, of course, but we must not be mistaken: if investment does not grow in Portugal, it is not because of the courts, but because of the economic suffocation created by absurd rules for reducing the deficit and paying the debt interest that brings us the equivalent to all the funding of the National Health Service in one year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u224	If courts need not be obstacles to the dynamism of the economy, it is much more necessary for courts to be encouraged to recognize rights against discrimination and against inequalities. That is what is expected of justice in democracy and, therefore, it can only be that, and not another, the meaning of the concrete structural reforms to be adopted in this area, now. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u225	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister of Justice, I have listened very carefully to it and have also read with great attention and curiosity the lines of the National Reform Programme devoted to justice. I must say, Mrs. Minister, with all the respect I have for you, that, more than perplexing, I was disappointed. I was disappointed because the subject we are dealing with today is serious. The efficiency and effectiveness of the justice system have a considerable impact on unemployment, increasing wealth production, increasing national and foreign investment and, of course, on GDP. I'm not the one who says it, it's the World Bank. So, Mrs. Minister, we were expecting more, much more! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u227	Not that we disagree, in the thesis, with some of the remarks that the so-called "National Reform Programme" is bringing us about. In fact, we all know that the laxity of justice, despite the internationally recognized progress made in recent years and that it has already spoken, is a problem that needs to be solved. We all also know that there is a need to reduce the number of jurisdictions in the courts, in particular, but not only in the administrative and fiscal courts. We all know that alternative dispute resolution needs to be increased, and we all know that insolvency processes must be successful, particularly in the special processes of revitalization. We all know this and much more, Mrs. Minister, and nobody doubts that we are all, certainly, good against evil, speed against laziness, justice against injustice. But this, Minister, is nothing. It's completely empty! This, Mrs Minister, to use a known idiomatic expression, is "a hand full of nothing" or "a bag full of everything". This, Mrs Minister, does not mean strictly anything to people or businesses. It's zero! More than diagnosing and propaganda—where this government is going to be an example— it is necessary to have concrete solutions to the problems encountered and, of course, to act. And that, I am sorry to say, seems to be something that this government does not want to deal with. They already presented numerous documents, made conferences and left interviews, but, as for the action, zero. We have not yet seen a measure with an impact implemented or a relevant change even discussed. Ideas, ideas and more ideas. Nothing else! in this National Reform Program, neither ideas are many nor there is a single clue about how to solve the few objectives. Therefore, Mrs Minister, we would like to hear in particular how you intend to combat the great issue of the rigour of justice. With more staff and judges? By increasing the means of alternative dispute resolution? How? Advertising more? Interesting more and better judicial actors and those interested? How? Making them compulsory in some cases? Expanding their skills? In what areas, Minister? What legislative amendments do you intend to make? the Code of Civil Procedure or the Code of Insolvency and Business Recovery, for example? Which ones? Surgical and circumscribed changes or too broad? By the way, Mrs. Minister, I ask you about her so keen review of the judicial map. By when, Mrs. Minister? It is not until now, even five months ago, that it says it needs to be reviewed, from which it will have a very concrete idea on the subject, and it has certainly stated that it would reopen 27 courts, ending the sections of proximity. Nothing has happened in this area and from there we legitimately ask ourselves when such a reversal will happen or if, on the contrary, the Minister has abandoned the idea and intended to listen to the European Commission's warning, which says in this regard, and I quote that "reversing current successes is a cause for concern". In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say to the Minister that we, CDS, know well what the way is. In addition to ideas, we have proposals and solutions that are palpable and feasible for solving concrete problems and we will present them briefly, as we have already told you about this National Reform Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u228	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u229	I'll be done in 2 seconds. But it is up to your government to do and not say any more. We wait. We already know, moreover, Mrs Minister, that justice wants the moon, but if we can have a justice here on earth, it may not be a great step for mankind, but it will certainly be of all benefit to the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u230	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.]] Sir, I'm sorry, but there was a misunderstanding. Mr António Filipe is registered to speak before you. Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u231	Mr President, I even admit that the mistake may have been ours. I was convinced you had me registered. Mr President, the Minister of Justice, in her speech, has put the problems of justice in terms of angles of approach which are obviously legitimate, but which from our point of view are far from exhausting the problems affecting the justice system in Portugal. The Minister has put a problem — I think we can fix it from now on, which is corruption. He admits that the problem of corruption is not primarily a legislative problem. In addition, there have been successive legislative packages on corruption which have been widely discussed in this House and with the wide participation of several stakeholders in the justice system which have improved Portuguese legislation in this area. Therefore, what is essential is to create mechanisms and means that enable us to comply with what legislation already allows today in the fight against corruption and the path to the training of the judicial police, which the Minister has referred to, is a decisive issue for us. To train the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Police with the necessary means to better combat this phenomenon and to enhance what legislation allows is decisive for the fight, as necessary, of corruption. The Minister referred to another question relating to justice as a factor of competitiveness: the problem of companies can satisfy their claims with the necessary speed and the functioning of justice is not an obstacle to the functioning of the economy. We must say here that we cannot see justice as an obstacle to the overcoming of the economic crisis that we live, as if the justice system itself did not suffer the consequences of the deepening of the crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u232	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u233	Surely the situation we have been living in the last few years — a huge increase in corporate insolvency, job losses, the closure of businesses, the increase in the number of debtors, people unable to solve their commitments — has dramatic consequences for the functioning of justice. In fact, it could not fail to have consequences for the functioning of justice. That is why overcoming the economic crisis is essential so that justice can have the right to breathe, to better respond to its problems. As for the question of the capacity of the justice system to respond to the problem of credit satisfaction, it is a real problem. This is an angle of approach, but in our view, what is fundamental is that justice works to ensure the rights of citizens. We are also concerned about the situation of the worker who is illegally dismissed and who does not find a prompt response in the labour courts that allows him to satisfy his or her rights or that of the worker who, when there is an insolvency situation, does not know when he or she will be able to receive the wages or compensation due to him. This element of accessibility and guarantee for citizens that courts work in order to satisfy their legally legitimate rights and interests is a fundamental issue which, in our view, cannot be restricted to the question of companies but, rather, to the question of guaranteeing the rights of citizens, particularly those who, due to their economic fragility, have more difficulties in gaining access to justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u234	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u235	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thus, solving the problems of the judicial system, of citizens' access to the courts, of ensuring, in particular, workers' access to justice is a fundamental issue that we regard as fundamental and which cannot fail to be addressed in the future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u236	Now, yes, it is the turn of Mr. José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group 'The Greens'. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the situation of justice in Portugal, which is particularly marked by its slowness and where procedural expectations are flooded, the Government is required to take responsibility for working towards building a faster, more efficient and, above all, more accessible justice system for its citizens. This is a responsibility that should be addressed at all times by all governments. And I say « should», because it has not been so and it has not been particularly so with the previous government. As we know, the PSD/CDS government has made justice more expensive, has made it difficult for Portuguese to gain access to justice and has further removed the citizens from justice with the closure of courts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u238	And when it is difficult to access to justice, when justice becomes more expensive and when the justice of the citizens is removed, it is not surprising that procedural expectations are reduced; what is strange is that the PSD now boasts about reducing expectations when we know that this reduction is due to the inability of people to resort to courts and, worse, when we know that this disability derives from the policies of the PSD and the CDS, which imposed them on the country and Portuguese. However, justice is not just far from citizens. Mr Minister, in fact, as mentioned in her initial speech, the malfunction of justice remains one of the greatest obstacles to the dynamism and competitiveness of companies and also foreign investment in our country. The lack of efficiency in the judicial system, its slowness, but also economic-financial crime and corruption, are conditioning and preventing investment and disrupting business dynamism. That is why we consider it important that the government has included justice in the central axes of the National Reform Programme. We know that the Program identifies the causes and problems, still making a diagnosis of the constraints, and of all these constraints, I wanted to underline two, because it is about them that I have two questions to ask you. The first has to do with the imperative need to make justice faster.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u239	You have to be quick, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u240	I will finish, Mr. President. in this sense, and since morosity is due to lack of human resources, I wanted to know whether the government is thinking about strengthening judicial officials as a way to make justice faster. The second question has to do with economic and financial crime, with emphasis on money laundering and corruption, which continues to be an obstacle to investment. I would like to know what measures the Government takes in this area, particularly with regard to public procurement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u241	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Justice, for a cross-cutting economy we need to recognise that it is necessary to decomplicate. Relations between companies, between companies and individuals and between companies and the state need to be guided by clear, agile and objective regulatory values and frameworks, achieved by a resumption of investment in the requalification of public and people's structures. The proximity of citizens and businesses to the judicial system is not only territorial but also cost-related. It can be said that justice is expensive and this has concrete impacts on business activity, especially in a country like ours, with a business fabric consisting mostly of small and medium-sized enterprises. In order for all companies to improve procedures, make sustainable investments and develop their product lines, they need speedy, accessible justice and fair and effective criminal action. Ms. Minister, it is our knowledge that he intends to make timely changes to the judicial map to bring the populations of justice closer to and reopen some of the courts that have been closed, changes that the NAP considers strategic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u243	Mr President, I ask you to sum up, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u244	I will finish, Mr. President. in this follow-up, Minister, we would like to know whether you are already in a position to inform us about which government plan to implement these changes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u245	Mr Francisca Van Dunem has the floor to reply on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by thanking all the comments that have been made both in the sense of criticism as to how this process has been conducted both those that have presented concrete proposals for renewal and proposals for amendment within the framework of the NRP. I would also like to mean the following: from the Government's point of view, specifically in the area of justice, reforming and legislating are not synonymous, they are different things. In fact, we can legislate and legislate a lot, but the next level, which is the level of implementation of reforms, is fundamental. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have the notion that the XIX government has largely legislated in these segments that we are talking about here, we have been monitoring the work that has been done and we are, above all, realizing those areas where existing legislation justifies updating, operationalization, justifying another type of intervention. With this in mind, I want to say that, as you can agree on the diagnosis, we have clearly differences in strategy. In other words, it is not a priority for the government at this time to legislate. There are, in fact, segments where there may be legislative needs, and they are already identified, but that is not the fundamental task. The fundamental task, at this time and with the framework we have, is essentially to act at the level of the organization, at the level of modernisation and at the level of simplification. That's our project, that's our strategy. It is a different strategy from yours, Mr Peixoto, but you may believe it is a strategy that, from my point of view, will work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is a set of measures that have been proposed and that are indeed legislative measures. It's a little more of the same. Some of these measures are clearly consensual and we are fully available to do the evaluation of what is proposed to us and to, on the basis of what corresponds to the Government's programme or to enter into the principles that the Government is advocating, to accept, of course, those proposals. I want to say, on the other hand, that when we talk about economic justice, we are, from our point of view, and firstly, talking about people's and people's justice, because companies are made of people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Here was asked a set of questions related to the contents of the PNR. Mr Peixoto, although I myself would like to have had more time to discuss the issues of justice - but we will certainly have room at the level of 1. the Commission or at another level, to do so, whenever you are a Member of the Commission. Members will understand this - and because there has been a little bit of the idea that there are no measures, I mean that there are measures, yes. There are measures, yes, and they are important measures, because otherwise not even the legislation that you have done would produce the desired effects. There are measures of the Technology Plan, and I identify you several. For example, the electronic auction in the executive area, an instrument of equitable and random distribution of proceedings by implementing agents, the quota of proceedings for these agents, the access of CAAG (Commission for the Monitoring of the Legal Aids ) to CITIUS in insolvency proceedings, the interoperability between CITIUS and SISAAE (information system supporting the activities of the implementing bodies) or, for example, what is needed and what we have been doing since the beginning, which is to strengthen the technological structure of both CITIUS and SITAF ( computer system of the administrative and fiscal courts) in order to enable them to introduce the new functions, some of them resulting even from reforms that were made by the previous Government. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been work done, indeed. The fact of not systematically appearing here with legislative proposals means only that our strategy is another one and not that which you have adopted. [[P.S., BE, and P.N. Applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also been asked a lot of questions about the question of the judicial map. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva asked me if I would have given up. Do you think, Madam Member, that after I have come here and have committed myself to reforming the judicial map and the Government's programme to which I belong, I would go back because of a reference in the PPS report (post-programme surveillance) of April? I'm sure the honourable Member is making a mistake. There are commitments here that are to fulfill! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u247	Mrs. Minister, I ask you to synthesize.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u248	I will now finish, Mr President. And the Government's commitment in this part was indeed not understood by the rapporteur. It is because the judicial reform they talk about has been based on three essential elements: the territorial configuration of the map, which is kept intact, as you know; the specialization, which is kept untouched, as you know; and the management model. So there is no reversal here or change. Even if there was, there was no reason to go back. But as far as the judicial map is concerned, the time available for me is over and what I announce to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, next month I will go to 1. the Commission shall submit the results and the proposal for the judicial map. [[P.S., BE, PCP and P.N.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u249	Thank you very much, Minister. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u250	I will now finish, Mr President. And I will do so only now because these reforms, although surgical, are being carried out with broad consensus. The Secretary of State for Justice has visited all the regions of the country and it is not just the headquarters of the districts and I have received dozens of autarchs. So we're talking to everyone. This work of talking to all will generate, hopefully, a consensus that will allow us to move forward, now in a constructive way, with the judicial map. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u251	We have concluded the second point on our agenda. Before I inform the agenda of tomorrow, I give the floor to Secretary Emilia Santos to read the file. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, Bill No 177 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthening maternity and paternity rights ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission and draft resolution No 260 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include a set of measures in the area of justice ( PSD ) under the National Reform Programme. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-20.u253	Thank you very much, Secretary. Mrs. Members of the plenary meeting tomorrow beginning at 3 p.m., the first point is the urgent debate required by the Government on cohesion and social equality. of the second point, there is the joint debate of draft resolutions Nos 194 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Towards strengthening the means and powers of the Working Conditions Authority and ensuring the effectiveness of its intervention ( CFP ), 98 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes the consecration of a new mission for the Working Conditions Authority ( Acts ), amending its scope of action, strengthening its powers and providing it with more means to combat precariousness ( BE ) and 258 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the Working Conditions Authority by meeting ILO ( PS ) conventions. of the third and last point, is the joint discussion of draft resolutions 191 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Strategic plan for the implementation of organized and population-based screening in the areas of colon and rectum cancer, cervical cancer, breast cancer and diabetic retinopathy ( The Greens), 143 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of territorial coverage and equity in access to screenings of population-based oncological diseases ( BE) and 255 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement a screening plan for colo-retal cancer and, as a preventive measure, establish a plan to raise awareness of the population (NAP). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work, so I declare the sitting closed. [[It was 17 hours and 50 minutes.]]
