ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I request the authorities to open the galleries. Mr. Pedro Alves has the floor to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 115 / XIII ( 1. ( a ).................................................................................................................................................. the Commission, 116 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prevents the mercantilization of public water supply, waste water sanitation and urban solid waste management ( CFP ), 117 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May 2015 establishing the legal regime for specialized medical training with a view to obtaining the degree of specialist and laying down the general principles to which the respective procedure ( CFP ) is to be followed, which falls to 9. the Commission, 118 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulation of the advertising of food products for children and young people ( NAP), 119 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends the arrangements for the stay of members of the parish board ( NAP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 120 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Done at 14. the amendment to the Advertising Code, approved by Decree-Law No 330 / 90 of 23 October, imposing restrictions on advertising to minors of certain food and drink products ( PS ), 121 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulates the heritage of the House of Douro ( BE ), 122 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Alter the lease scheme supported for greater social justice ( First Amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December) ( BE) and 123 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates advertising to food products addressed to children and young people by amending the Advertising Code ( The Greens ) ; and draft resolutions 115 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate revocation of all contracts for the granting of prospecting rights, research, development and production of oil ( NAP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 116 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defend the construction of the new central hospital of Évora ( PS ), 117 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the defence of Community measures for the protection of the planting of the master and production of the midwifery at the heart of the country, northern Alentejo and the Algarve ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 118 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government dynamize the measures necessary for the promotion and valorisation of others ( PS ), 119 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conduct an assessment of the application of the housing-supported lease scheme in conjunction with and collaboration with the competent entities ( CDS-PP ), 120 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defend and promote the production of others ( CFP ), 121 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of hazardous waste deposited in São Pedro da Cova, Gondomar, environmental monitoring of the landing site with a view to informing populations and protecting public health ( PS ), 122 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen measures on academic practice ( CDS-PP ), 123 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend the rules and conditions for access to specific training in medicine ( PS ), 124 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures in the context of academic practice ( PS ), 125 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defends the regulation of the right to accompany pregnant women during all stages of labor ( PS ), 126 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of maximum income limits supported by the effort rate to prevent exponential increases in income supported by the social districts managed by IHRU ( PS ), 127 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the protection and promotion of others as ex-books of transmontane gastronomy ( BE), 128 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures guaranteeing access to specialized training for all physicians ( BE ), 129 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the new central hospital in Évora ( BE ) and 130 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of fixation and compensation allowances for Conservatives, notaries and registries and notaries in the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira ( PSD ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to get on the agenda, which is the first point of political declarations. Thus, for the first political statement, which falls to the Greens Ecological Party, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Members of the PSD and the CDS, understand this Green intervention not only as an expression of indignation at the reality of the facts, but also as an opportunity given to you to provide urgent political explanations to the country about the wages of the administrators of regulatory entities, this if you understand that it is possible to explain the politically unexplained. In fact, it has now come to the public, through the revelation of the Journal of News, that the Administrators of the National Civil Aviation Authority ( ANAC ) had, in October last year, retroactive effects in July 2015, wage increases greater than 150 %. Nothing so PSD and CDS would have been alerted. When Parliament discussed here in May 2013 the proposal for a framework law of regulatory entities, of the government's authorship, were well advised in the debate produced, that the proposal does not include limits to the salaries of administrators. And do you know what the government answered at the time, when confronted with the issue? That he expected the salaries to be aligned with the country's situation. Instead of defining objective criteria and limits, it was better for this to become a matter of faith! In fact, a number of things became a matter of faith, only with well-measured, known or hidden results: - there was a supposed faith that the collection of IRS and VAT would allow the refund of 35% of the overtax to the Portuguese - was what the PSD and the CDS said in the election campaign. Today, it is confirmed what The Greens have always said: the refund of the overtax by the PSD/CDS method is equal to 0 %. For regulatory entities, the faith was that the salaries of administrators were not increased so much and therefore no limits were imposed, which could have been entered into the law, and that faith resulted in increases in wages by more than 150 %. Absolutely intolerable! They see well, while the public service was massacred with the freezing of wages, while the minimum pensions were kept frozen and while the PSD/CDS government supported that it was almost an immorality for the country, in response to the needs, eliminating the cuts in salaries of civil servants, certain administrators of regulatory entities had their wages almost tripled. While the PSD/CDS government dropped the wages of the Portuguese, the same PSD and CDS allowed, among other examples, an ANAC administrator to stop earning about 6000 € per month to earn about €16 000 per month, taking, in one year, the amount of €225 000. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, it is that indifference to inequalities seems to be in your blood and reveals itself, at every moment, from genetic charism to models of society defended by the PSD and the CDS. The past legislation did not leave them in doubt. Let us look at just a few examples. to the banks was given what we had and what we didn't have; to the workers and to the families was taken what they had and what they didn't have. The large economic groups benefited from huge tax exemptions and tax reductions; the Portuguese taxpayers were adversely affected by the huge increase in taxes. In addition to the enlargement of the poverty stock market, the gap between the richest and the poorest increased with PSD/CDS governance and structurally. And the millionaire wages of the administrators of the regulators are just a mere example of such built-up immorality. PSD and CDS have actively contributed to unsustainable realities in the country. And they were no longer tolerable, there was an urgent and different answer to some fundamental questions. For this reason, the Greens have undertaken so much to change policies, taking into account the results of the last legislative elections by which the Portuguese have withdrawn most of the members from the PSD and the CDS. The Green Party has assumed emerging objectives and measures with the PS that need to be met, such as the reintroduction of income to Portuguese, in order to combat poverty, to create better living conditions for people, to create an instrument for dynamizing the economy, as well as strengthening people's mobility options and safeguarding natural resources, also fundamental to promoting better living conditions for citizens. What we reaffirm is that we are going to look at the next State budget taking into account these objectives and that the Budget has to represent a turning part of a too long cycle, so that the country dynamizes, produces sustainablely and takes care of its human potential.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u5	Mrs Deputy, it's been too long, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u6	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, in view of the unacceptable pressure the European Commission is taking towards our country, while at the same time flexing rules for other States, the Greens Ecological Party states that Portugal does not need external blocking forces but rather an internal determination to promote better living conditions, so that we can generate dynamic that generates wealth, which in turn will generate more balanced accounts. It is known that the European Commission was used to a government that accepted everything,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u7	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u8	...that in everything showed subservience. But also in this measure and in this context it is time to change attitude. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u9	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the current government will always count on the Greens Ecological Party as a force which here is determined to affirm that the commitments are to be fulfilled and that, in the face of the social and economic atrocities committed by the previous government and the troika...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u10	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u11	... and to the needs of the country, we even have a patriotic duty to generate policies that promote color and hope to a country that has human, natural, cultural and entrepreneurial potentials to develop with sustainability. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u12	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has four requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u13	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u14	Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the state we've reached! When this matter is evidenced by social communication, many are surprised and a few are frightened. We don't know if the frightened are the same as the surprised. Well, some people throw a blame on the law that they judge not to be theirs, when they are the only ones responsible for the law itself. That is because the law that invokes as guilty and responsible for all that has happened in recent days is the same as it has obtained proposals for amendment from all parties and that the Members have. Members of the CDS and PSD have gloriously reprobated. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why the Republic has to respond in proper ways, and the proper forms mean restoring the equity situation that the country deserves, because it is not reasonable, when the country demands so much effort and so many that they earn so little and that they do not see their salary increased, which very few earn so much with the proposal of a supposed committee of salaries. That is why we must be on the side of the Republic and the interests of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u16	You have the floor to ask for clarifications from the PSD, Mr Luís Leite Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u17	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to congratulate you on your intervention and the subject you have brought. I believe that it is a matter of greater relevance and that, of greater importance, it has to be treated with rigour and seriousness, because we are talking about entities which, in a social market economy, have a fundamental role to play in this same market and in order to ensure that their decisions are respected and contribute to greater efficiency of the various players working on the market. Madam Member, of course we understand the political opportunity of this issue and the time to address it. We all realize — and I think that the country also realizes — that it does much good to the'management' that you sponsor who are currently discussing other issues to escape to the essentials.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u18	What is essential? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u19	But we're not going to run away to the essentials. [[All right!]] [[Protests by Members of The Greens Heloísa Apollonia and the Bruno Dias PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u20	Of course, we were also very disturbed by the intervention of the Socialist Party Member, because the Socialist Party, when it was a government, had regulatory entities to receive wages from this level and never changed the situation. More: in time, there were government members who left the government directly for regulatory entities...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u21	Now! [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u22	... to earn exactly these wages and, with that, VV. Ex. They've never been outraged. But I restate the truth and the rigour that the subject deserves, as the honourable Member has just acknowledged, the decision to fix these salaries was taken by the Committee on Wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u23	Named after the PSD government!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u24	And yesterday the PSD called on the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works to request hearings on all payroll committees of all regulatory entities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u25	That is because, if we want to discuss the subject seriously, we must go to the heart of the matter. And we do not understand why the Socialist Party wants to hear the former Minister of Economics and the former Minister of Finance and refuses to hear the entity that was the main protagonist in this decision. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u26	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u27	I will finish, Mr. President. And our question is this: is the Greens Ecological Party or not determined to support our request to hear, within the Commission, all the winning committees of the various regulatory entities that have this competence, how is it normal for a regulatory entity with its own autonomy to have? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u28	In reply, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Luís Moreira Testa and Mr Luís Leite Ramos, I thank the questions put. To the PSD Parliamentary Group I begin by saying the following: can we hear all the entities that you and the other parliamentary groups understand — the more we hear, the more we understand, is it not true, Mr President? But you won't get away with responsibility. It is that even in the Committee on Wages you have responsibility for appointments.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u30	Who named them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u31	Therefore, Mr President, I would advise you to read the Minutes of the debate, in general, which has been done with regard to the framework law of regulatory entities, because I think that you will be ashamed, seeing as you have done so. Moreover, when Mr. Secretary of State was confronted at that time with the lack of taxation on wage limits, in that government proposal which was discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, what Mr. Secretary of State replied was that it was almost not necessary to establish such taxation, but what he even said was that «the expectation is that pay committees will take account of the situation of the country ». Mr President, do you not think this is politically too risky and is opening the door for this result to happen? You don't think this is a strong and big political irresponsibility? At the time, you were warned and "have made mucosa ears"! Why are you amazed at the result? Oh, my God! He then said that he understood the political opportunity of this issue, but that what should, yes, be discussed were other issues that would be of greater interest to the country. But what do you want to discuss? Oh, my God! You will certainly discuss them in the PSD political declaration and we will be able to enter the discussion. But do you think this is irrelevant to today's politics? Oh, my God! Do you know why the Greens have now brought this matter to the Assembly of the Republic? Because it is now that the practical result of the macabre law that you have made has been denounced. You see, Mr. Deputies? The opportunities come up like this. Now, I had taken no opportunity to make this discussion! That would mean that your insensitivity to inequalities did not exist. Unfortunately, it exists! Mr President, fortunately, we are in a position to turn a page, to promote a path to equality in this country and to put this logic of the permanence of inequality aside. That is why the Greens are going to work, Mr. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u32	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u33	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Heloísa Apolónia for the current issue that brought us here in her political statement, without prejudice to the fact that we will now announce that we will go further in our own intervention. In any case, there are two questions that give rise to our concern and reflection and on which I would like to draw a comment from you. The first question concerns the alleged and alleged independence of the committee of dues. This is a structure often invoked as being independent of the fixing of the salaries of the various members of the board of directors of the regulatory entities, but it is worth mentioning that the committee of salaries consists of two thirds of members appointed by the government and one third of members appointed by the board of directors of the regulatory entity itself. So, in terms of independence, we are talking about payroll committees. I would therefore like the honourable Member to comment on the fact that there is a committee of dues whose boss is the very entity that so invokes the power to fix its dues. The second question concerns the reference which has been used commonly for the fixing of these salaries. And the reference to these salaries is neither more nor less the Banco de Portugal. The Banco de Portugal, in the person of its Vice-Governor, is regarded as the reference for the fixing of the top salaries of the regulatory entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u34	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u35	I will finish, Mr. President. It happens that over the past four years, we have heard several times the Governor of Banco de Portugal say that the Portuguese must comply with the need for a austerity policy, for belt tightening, but his salary is far higher than those top wages that the presidents of the regulatory entities already take. Therefore, I ask you: to what extent is there moral legitimacy on the part of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal in order to want austerity for the majority of Portuguese when that austerity, applied to itself, is as the saying "in the house of iron, specto of pole"? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u36	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u37	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to congratulate the political statement that has brought here and come back to the point of reading the Minutes of the debate, in general, in plenary, of the framework law that has been at the heart of this controversy. There was someone who, by the PCP, asked—and who asked who is now speaking—the following: "Why are we confronted with an administration which has no limit of salaries in respect of wages that are practised? And why, for two years after the term of office, is the administrator entitled to do nothing and receive half of what he was receiving as administrator? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u38	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u39	The answer given by the Government to this question from the CFP was this: « What is expected is that these salaries committees, taking into account the criteria set out in the law, can of course address issues such as the situation in which the country is and align the remunerations with what are the appropriate remuneration standards in the public sector ». In addition, the PCP commented: "It is a matter of faith! Do not keep on seeking. ” And that's what you saw, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It should also be noted that the Secretary of State who gave this reply is Dr. Hélder Rosalino, who left the PSD / CDS government and is now an administrator in the Banco de Portugal, with a maturity that is not now relevant to mention here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u40	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u41	We are therefore faced with political options which are scandalous in themselves and which come to the fire at this time because of a particular case, which is scandalous in itself — it is a national scandal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u42	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u43	And we've already checked here the incredible disagreement and strangeness of the PSD that we're talking about this subject, when there was so much to comment on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u45	On the contrary, we cannot speak of this when we are faced with a situation that has had the direct sponsorship of the former Prime Minister of Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u46	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u48	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u49	I shall finish, Mr President, with this question: when all the evidence and the parliamentary committee itself that you are. Members were part of the decision unanimously because of the lack of conditions of this administration of ANAC, the government insisted on the appointment of those managers and sponsored an operation and a process which was settled in this scandalous increase of salaries, such as from €6000 / month to €16 000 / month. I am increasing this by a committee of dues whose proceedings remain secret and which, of course, the House will be very soon to demand that it be given,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u50	We agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u51	... that the contours in which this process has developed may be known and clarified. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u52	In reply, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u53	Mr President, I would like to say that I agree with the considerations that have been made now, either by Mr Heitor Sousa, the Left Block or by Mr Bruno Dias of the Portuguese Communist Party, and that I fully review the views they have made on this case. But, Mr President, if I may, I would like not to criticize, because at last each parliamentary group speaks when it understands, but notes, to record the fact that the CDS has not spoken on this matter. [[Here we go!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u54	Well, it is not entirely true what I am saying because the CDS has not spoken here but Mr Hélder Amaral had a « brilliant» answer to this scandal, which was to « shake the water from the hood», as saying « this is not strictly nothing with me, nor so little with us», but saying, yes, that was the fault of the troika. The blame, Mr President, but you have to add something more to this story, and anything you have to add — and I hope that you will be reflecting on this matter if you are still talking about it today — has to do with your direct responsibility, in particular in drawing up the framework law of the regulators, which has already given us the magnificent result of which we have had the opportunity to speak today. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have now come to denounce this issue in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. Several parliamentary groups have already spoken on this matter, some more outraged, others less. The most outraged are those who have no responsibility in the matter and the least indignant are those who have a direct responsibility in the matter. But there is one thing that we should all conclude: it is necessary to moralize this country once and for all. We can have 300 discussions here, but if we do not act and if there is no responsibility of all parliamentary groups to act, this does not reach the right conclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u56	In fact, we have to straighten out the sleeves, we have to look at the law and we have, in a decisive and determined way, to change what needs to be changed, so that we can moralize this country in what concerns these millionaire wages that have no reason to exist. And moralizing the country is also fighting for a policy of equality, combating inequalities and better social policy. If there are parliamentary groups that are not interested in the matter — and have demonstrated it in the previous Parliament, when they had a majority, in which they have indeed fought for a practice of inequality at various levels in the country — these, fortunately, have lost most of the Members in the Assembly of the Republic, but then others need to straighten their sleeves, in order to work on what is essential for once and for all to moralize this country, because the Portuguese want it and deserve it. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u57	You now have the floor for a political statement on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Eng.António Guterres once said in this House that there is no second opportunity to create a good first impression. It is a truth with which I agree at all and agree even more when the Government in this way of presenting the budget outline lost this opportunity to create a good impression. A good opportunity not only in the amateur form as it conducts the process but also in the content. The problem is that all this impreparation has become public and, when it becomes public, it leads to a huge lack of credibility, it has damage of reputation. And this lack of credibility and these damage of reputation are not only from the Government, they are unfortunately from Portugal and all Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Just notice, this budget outline has this original sin: it is not credible! In less than two weeks, the budget deficit increased from 2, 8 % to 2, 6 % and now to 2, 4 %. What is credibility? Oh, my God! What is the credibility of a growth that was 2, 1 % yesterday and now is 1, 9 %? Oh, my God! What is the credibility of a budget outline that has no credit in any national institution—in the Council of Public Finance, in the UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit)—in no international institution or in no commentator on the right or left of this country? Oh, my God! And, « cherries on the bride's cake», even on the lack of credibility of this document, is Mr Prime Minister, in statements to a newspaper, that yes, of a reputation for credibility, to say that this document resulted from weeks of intensive talks, but a few days later the Government receives a letter from the European Commission saying that it has many doubts about the government's accounts, and still yesterday that same Commission warned that there was not enough progress. Well, in these weeks of intensive conversations someone has been wrong: either Mr. Prime Minister has been wrong, or Mr. Prime Minister has been wrong. But this credibility that is being asked is not a credibility for it to be well placed in the photograph. This credibility, which has taken a long time and has been very difficult to dismiss Portugal and Portuguese, is very important for more economics, for more jobs and for more investment. Only in this way can we create economic progress. Only in this way can we create social progress and only in that way can we remove austerity. Austerity is not removed because it is said here a pantomime or if it is said there a « chico-spertice ». Austerity is removed because wealth is created,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... because you have Product to distribute. That's the secret to removing austerity. All of us are against austerity, let us leave this little pier and that lamenchice. You think they are the only children in this fight against austerity. Do you know that if you say today in this budget outline that you are in a position to restore some income, this has been the result of the work done over the past four and a half years of governance? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] A work that, in addition to having resulted in the adjustment of public finances, has made Portugal grow above the European average, with regard to the economy, as well as having substantially reduced unemployment, has allowed to maintain the social state, the National Health Service, the public school and the public service. That hurts, but it's true! That's the only way we've been able to get here, the fruit of the work we've done. It is legitimate, therefore, for all Portuguese to want this government to remove austerity, but to remove it as promised: without aggravating taxes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u59	If not, it's taking with one hand what's going on with the other. And often you can even give the circumstance of taking yourself out more indirectly than you do directly. What we hope is that this government, with its partners, will do its utmost to close the budget and close it as quickly as possible. This is what is expected of this government. Then, if it is a good or a bad budget, here we will be, us and the Portuguese, to evaluate it, but we hope that it will close and that that close of the Budget will not be transformed into a great fact, into a great victory of this government. It's your obligation, that's why you guys made the coalition. It's the least you can expect! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u60	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u61	I shall finish now, Mr President. Therefore do not make a great victory from the close of the Budget and close it because, according to Mr. Prime Minister, the word given is an honest word. Here we are! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u62	Mr President, four of us have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u63	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u64	That being the case, you have the floor, first of all, Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u65	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mr Luís Campos Ferreira and by saying that, listening to his statement, it is clear that we are before the last and last effort of the PSD to try to negatively influence the European Commission in order to impose more austerity on the Portuguese. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]] Mr President, the only thing I have to say to you is that everything indicates that your request and your wish will go wrong. And here we will be to see your rage at the end of this entire process. What we have seen in the last 10 days, by the PSD and now by the CDS-PP,... [[The CDS-PP?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u66	... it was a desperate attempt, and in a rather pathetic way, say in passing, that the European Commission imposed on the Portuguese what the Portuguese did not let you continue to impose on the country. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, this attempt to impose austerity by interposed person is wrong to them, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very bad for them! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] All parties in all countries have differences in their approach to the European Commission. Portugal, which I know, is the only country where we objectively witness the deliberate boycott attempt to the Government's effort to delimit austerity and bring more hope. There is no more opposition in any country in Europe than to do so, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]] They fill the mouth of patriotism, they use the flag in the pen, but they do not miss an opportunity to undermine the legitimate Government of the Republic's efforts to try to limit and change the page of austerity and have a Budget that will make it possible to benefit the country and the Portuguese. It's a shame, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! [[That's right! That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u67	And if you think two minutes about what you've been doing in the last 10 days, you'll also realize the shame it is! [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u68	The honourable Member has already exceeded his time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u69	The honourable Member came here to say that the Prime Minister had deceived the Portuguese. No, sir! The honourable Member should be referring to another Prime Minister, which has deceived the current Prime Minister, who has deceived Europe and deceived the Portuguese by saying something in Europe and something else in Portugal and by writing erroneously structural measures that were not. And that, Mr President, has cost the Portuguese because, unfortunately, the European Commission has not accepted the review of all your budget management. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u70	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u71	The honourable Member said here that we have one hand and we have taken the other. I ask you a very simple question: does he think that increasing the minimum wage, reducing the surcharge, returning the wages withdrawn by the cuts and restoring the social minimums is equivalent to raising the taxes on the bank? Oh, my God! Answer me, honourable Member. I think it's a question whose answer the country would like to know. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u72	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u73	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u74	Mr President, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira, I had several questions to ask, but, after what I have heard here, I cannot help telling Mr João Galamba that what you just done here is not just a shame for you, it is a shame for you, it is a shame for your party, it is a shame for your coalition partners and, frankly, it is a shame for all of us! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] The words that have been heard in this Parliament have been shameful and, quite frankly, they are not worthy of it. We never judge the patriotism of anyone, neither his nor anyone's here, in this House. But one thing I say to you, honourable Member: there is no one who has brought the troika and has escaped the responsibilities that we must judge our patriotism on this bench! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr President, let us make it clear that we want things to go well with Portugal. Portugal is our country. We have no doubt that, between the interests of Portugal and the interests of anyone else, we will always defend the interests of Portugal and those of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u75	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u76	The honourable Member, who thought they were in favour of the Portuguese interests when they promised to increase wages at the same time that, after a few months, they were asking for international help from « extended hat », because they had no money to pay wages and pensions, I don't think they have morals to teach patriotism, whoever they are! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We never judge the patriotism of anyone. But, Mr. Member, in recent times, your defense of the government has reminded me of what it did when the Prime Minister was José Socrates... [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u77	...and said everything was okay, even when the news happened. We don't want to see that movie again! We do not want Portugal to go through that again. We never want to go through that again. So, once again, I repeat: we want this agreement to go well for Portugal. We want the agreement to be reached. In fact, the President of the CDS, who coincided yesterday in Brussels, said so.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u78	Just watch the news!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u79	And he said more, he said that abroad he never criticized the Government of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u80	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u81	Of course, Mr. President. But, Mr. Campos Ferreira, I would say that our path was different. Our path was gradualism. And it was that of gradualism why? Because we want the changes, the replacement of incomes to be forever. What we think is that this path, and this path is the responsibility of the Socialist Party and its coalition partners...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u82	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u83	Of course, Mr. President. Does it not seem to you that the time has come for everyone to assume their responsibilities? in the same way that CDS and PSD took over theirs, the parties that are here, who are responsible for this Budget, take over theirs. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u84	To reply, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u85	Mr President, Mr Galamba, the mixture of sovereignty and lack of education with which you speak in this House would - I would like, on matters of citizenship and respect the Republic, not to answer, but to answer you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u86	Then don't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u87	I'm going to answer but not in the same molds, because, perhaps, we've had and have different life routes. I will reply by saying the following: who has contributed to the lack of credibility of the budget outline which is currently being discussed was only and only you — as Mr President has often said: "Yes, it was only you alone and only you! ' — because in just less than a month and a half they changed all the forecasts. The honourable Member wants to convince this House, the honourable Member wants to convince the Portuguese that UTAO, an independent entity, when he said that this budget had masked numbers, was lying? Oh, my God! What were you taking sides in politics? Oh, my God! When does the Public Finance Council consider this budget under pressure from Brussels? Oh, my God! Mr Galamba, you know that when it comes to people's lives - and the State budget is that, it is people's lives, it is the life of businesses - we cannot put ourselves with these pantominics. We can't, no! It's not okay! Mr. Deputies may think you have a lot of fun,... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] ... but it is not that way, Mr President, that serious matters should be discussed. It's not that way that you get credibility, not in here, not out there. [[PS protests.]] You know what that is, sir? It is the result of the electoral competitiveness that exists in your coalition. [[PS laughter.]] It seems that you are still in the election campaign, but in the election campaign to dispute the same market niche. You know very well, Mr President, what I am referring to, and I am not telling you anymore because it would probably be a waste of time for both of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u88	Sir, tell me everything that goes to your soul!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u89	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, since it is clear that the replacement of people's purchasing power was the way in which we were going and which was handed over to the European Commission. It would be done in a more sustained way, in a more prudent way and in a more consistent way. That was the way we were going. This is the way in which most Portuguese believe and that is the way that those who are analyzing the Budget think it is the right way. That's not how it was! That's not how the Socialist Party chose. He wants to do everything and everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u90	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u91	He'll know where I'm going and where he wants to get us. [[PS protests.]] But there is one thing, Mr. João Galamba : you can wish Portugal and the Portuguese very well, but you do not want Portugal and the Portuguese more or better than any member of this bench sitting here and who has been elected. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u92	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u93	Mr President, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira, I must tell you that I believe that the whole country has witnessed the shock of what has happened over the past two weeks.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u94	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u95	There were doubts about what the European Commission was, its political agenda and how several national political agents were subservient to it and that mask would have fallen in recent days.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u97	The policy of shock and fear should shame those who call themselves democrat in our country and the disrespect with which Portugal has been treated is unacceptable. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It would be hoped that a republican would rise and say that in the Republic and democracy he would send the people and it is the people who have the right, and we must all serve him. That's not what we've seen in the last few weeks! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The media campaign orchestrated by Brussels... [[PSD Members' laughs.]] ...to try to create shock and fear in our country! It is extraordinary to see a PSD Euro MP wanting to be a candidate for the European Commission's spokesperson saying that the European Commission had lost confidence in our country...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u98	And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u99	... and it is extraordinary that these words should be followed by the honourable Member. In fact, there are some fans in Brussels who think austerity is the beginning and end of politics, and today we have no doubt that there is a clique on the right in Portugal that hits the horror that they want to do to the country, and that is that we do not accept. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Every time they try to attack our country, you say: "All right! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Brussels says: « Cut wages! », PSD and CDS cut wages. Brussels says: « Any rights! », PSD and CDS jumped on the rights to press them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u100	Sir, I ask you to conclude. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u101	I will finish, Mr. President. Brussels says: « We do not accept democratic commitments! », and it is here, in this second round of the elections, that PSD and CDS, which is the fifth column, ask outside the support they have not had in the polls, and this we do not accept.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u102	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u103	I will finish, Mr. President. Whether you want the right or not, the next Budget of the State of Portugal will be a Budget for the replacement of wages, income and improvement of the quality of life of people. It's not the Left Block Budget, but it's much better than the one PSD and CDS had for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u104	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u105	And there is a certainty, Mr President: when we get to the right side of the negotiations with Brussels — and we all realize that this is going to happen — who is going to be disappointed in this whole process is right because I wanted the support of Brussels to harm the country. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u106	Mr João Oliveira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u107	Mr President, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira, I begin my request for clarification by proposing a challenge: I have the courage to take on what the PSD and the CDS really want to bring to this debate. This is because the concern of PSD and CDS is not with the good or bad impression caused by the PS government, it is not with the good or bad impression that causes the Budget or the credibility of the State Budget outline, which is to be presented. The real concern of the PSD and CDS is with the prospect of returning to the Portuguese what you stole from them. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] This is your concern! That is why it is difficult for Mr Luís Campos Ferreira to have the courage to assume that this is what concerns you and bothers you. Mr Luís Campos Ferreira, the alignment of the PSD and the CDS with the European Commission is not only against the national interest, it is against the interests of workers to whom wages can be returned, to whom holidays can be returned, to whom the hours of work that you have extended may be restored, is against pensioners and Portuguese people who receive poor benefits and all those to whom the prospect of recovery of rights, gains and advances of their living conditions was in fact opened with the result of the legislative elections on 4 October.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u108	All right! [[Protests from the PSD and the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u109	That is the real concern, that is really the discomfort that PSD and CDS face in this debate. Why don't you take that all at once? Oh, my God! Why do you insist on bringing to this debate today, as you have done a few months ago when we discuss here the replacement of wages, the elimination of overtax, all these measures for the replacement of Portuguese rights? [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Why don't you guys set aside anger...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u110	Angry? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u111	...what are they still dealing with about the materials that aim to return to the Portuguese what you stole from them? Furthermore, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira: in addition to having the courage to take this, they should have the courage to assume that the farce that you still sell, that with four years of your policy we have reached a result that we need to preserve, must be assumed once and for all as a farce that it is. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u112	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u113	I shall conclude, Mr. President. This is because Mr Luís Campos Ferreira spoke in a political statement about the need to create wealth when you, in four years, destroyed almost 7 % of GDP with your policy of recessive and destruction of national production, should at least force you to take responsibility for what you have been doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u114	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u115	Mr Luís Campos Ferreira — and finally Mr President — challenges you to take up your other concerns and to correct for all once your direction, your aim against the rights of workers, against the rights of the Portuguese people, which you, even after defeat, insist on crushing. This is the challenge that remains, in addition to the courage to take your perspective and choice, and that you have today in this debate, which we are doing in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u116	To reply, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I did not think that, with this political statement, it could cause so much acrimony and so much boredom in the House, because I said that I wanted this Budget to be closed, and that it would be closed as soon as possible and on those points which were the commitments they made before the people and without any increase in taxes. I said what you guys wanted to hear. Why are you upset, sirs. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares and Mr João Oliveira? Mr João Oliveira, let me return the challenge: why does Mr João Oliveira — and now I am also addressing Mr Pedro Filipe Soares — not assume that it is against Europe, does not assume that it is against the euro, does not assume that it is against the European treaties, does not assume that this Europe is not yours? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] This is the bottom line. Do you know what you've done? They dragged a party that was by European nature, a party that has leading figures for Europe and this party is today more disciple of the Left Block, more disciples of the Communist Party than disciple of Mário Soares and Eng.António Guterres! [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u118	I was expecting more from Mr. Deputies!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u119	The challenge is yours, Mr. João Oliveira! Say it's against, to see if the PS bench also says it's against! Mr. Deputy, who began with the pay cuts was the Government of the Socialist Party in 2010.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u120	That's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u121	Who started with the replacement was us in 2014 in very difficult circumstances. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] By the way, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, since we are the right, with this pejorative sense and that adjective that you want to paste, but I do not put that hat on! — you are the extreme left and I ask: how does the extreme left create wealth in Portugal? Nationalizing everything and everyone? Oh, my God! Not allowing private initiative? Oh, my God! How does the left create wealth to distribute? What is your social model? Where is this model in Europe or elsewhere in the world that can be pointed out as an example? [[PCP protests.]] Mr. João Oliveira wants to level below, he wants to distribute what he does not have and often wants to create chaos, because it is chaos that the revolution that interests you is born. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u122	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau did not interrupt the debate at all because it seems normal that there is some enthusiasm in the political debate, but it is essential, from my point of view, what has happened in several speeches, which is the fact that there are personal assessments, which are always subjective, and attacks of character, which I do not think is well in this House. Therefore, I appeal that this logic should not continue. [[Congrats from PS deputy Elza Pais.]] Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the economic suffocation and social strangulation of previous PSD / CDS governance, the current political moment is crucial to turn the page of austerity. For four and a half years, PSD and CDS applied a blind and violent policy of austerity to Portuguese. PSD and CDS promised that austerity was the only way to reduce public debt, strengthen the financial system, create jobs and improve the living conditions of Portuguese people. And that is why the previous government imposed on the country a neoliberal agenda focused on the attack on the available income of families and on the dismantling of the social state, brutally increasing the tax burden, especially on the income of workers and pensioners, cutting in wages and pensions, unemployment allowance, family allowance, social income for inclusion, in the solidarity supplement for the elderly. It was four and a half years to destroy and without results. Let us see: public debt has shot at EUR 36 billion, budgetary targets have been successively failed, the financial system has seen the collapse of BES and Banif, real unemployment has reached historic peaks, have emigrated more than 350 000 Portuguese, the country has impoverished from year to year, child poverty has risen and poverty in the elderly has increased and social inequalities have grown to unacceptable levels. Austerity failed, the ethics of expansionist austerity failed, the previous government impoverished the country and a poorest country has less conditions to develop. Economic growth cannot be disconnected from the social condition of families and the country. The proposal of the State Budget for 2016 is to turn the page of austerity. It is the Budget that recovers family income, strengthens social protection and recognizes the need to maintain the process of consolidation of public accounts. It is the Budget focused on economic growth and on increasing domestic demand, mainly encouraged by the increase in the available income of families and the increase in investment, with emphasis on accelerating the implementation of European funds. It is the Budget that seeks a more competitive economy and a more just and supportive state. It is the Budget that speaks the truth to the country. It is the Budget that does not hide slippers, such as the return of the overtax of IRS, the decrease in deferred tax revenue and the Banif case. It is the Budget that does not hide from the Portuguese what the Government tells the European Commission. It is a responsible budget, it is a budget that recomposes the tax burden, reducing taxes on the income of workers and pensioners, through the definitive or gradual elimination of the overtax of the IRS and the extraordinary contribution of solidarity. It is a Budget that restores cuts in public service salaries. It is a budget for the increase in national minimum wage. It is a Budget that reduces child poverty. It is a Budget that reduces poverty in the elderly. It is a Budget that restores the social minimums in the benefits of social income of insertion, the solidarity supplement for the elderly and the family allowance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also a budget that introduces the progressive fall in VAT for restoration. This is a credible budget, a budget that promotes a change in budgetary policy. We know that this is not the Budget on the right, we know that PSD and CDS continue to defend more austerity. We do not forget that the large fiscal restraint measure for 2016, led by the PSD and the CDS, aimed to cut even more EUR 600 million in pensions in 2016. [[Congratulations from the PS and PCP MP João Oliveira.]] And we also do not forget the intention of the PSD and CDS to maintain the freezing of 80 % of pensions in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the last few days have been marked by negotiations between the Government and the European Commission. What is really at stake in negotiations with the European Commission is not the value of the deficit or the consistency of macroeconomic and fiscal forecasts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u124	Isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u125	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u126	What is really at stake is that the previous government lied to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD and CDS announced to the country that the overtax of IRS, ESC and cuts in public office salaries were temporary measures. However, in Brussels, PSD and CDS declared these measures permanent, because in the matter of raising revenue and cutting expenditure, it was possible to gain a short-term misleading profit before the European authorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] the Portuguese PSD and CDS said these measures were temporary, but in Brussels they announced that they were permanent measures. What is therefore at issue is the classification of these measures in the context of structural adjustment. What is at stake is whether these measures should be considered temporary and permanent within the framework of the structural adjustment process. Even this week, we have seen the PSD behave with a bad position that no democratic country wants. At the moment the government defends national interest in Brussels, there comes the PSD attacking the government. The PSD attacks the government at a time when the PSD defends in Brussels the end of austerity. This PSD attack is the attack of despair, but it is also an attack of those who never negotiated or never wanted to negotiate with European entities, because everything accepted without conversation and without contradiction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State Budget for 2016 breaks with austerity policy. It is a Budget that proves that, contrary to what the PSD and CDS have always said, it would have been possible to break up with austerity policy for a longer time. It is a budget that stimulates internal demand, it is a budget that does not confuse rigor with cuts in wages and pensions, it is a budget that does not confuse budget savings with cuts in social support, it is a budget that defends the National Health Service, which defends the public passenger transport service, it is a budget that meets the Government Programme, which complies with parliamentary agreements. The budget to be approved by the Council of Ministers tomorrow will be, we are sure, a budget well received by the country and the European Union. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u127	Mr. João Paulo Correia, five were registered. Members for requests for clarification. How will you respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u128	Mr President, I shall first respond to a set of three requests for clarification and then together the other two.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u129	First of all, to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Paulo Correia, with regard to this State budget, we have come to see that Parliament is divided: one part is more concerned with the holy European Union than with the Portuguese; the other part, in which the Greens see themselves, is more concerned with the Portuguese than with the European Commission. The pressure the European Commission is putting on the Portuguese Government to put forward a State budget for continuity of austerity policies that the Portuguese have rejected are, in our view, absolutely unqualified pressures. But these pressures have a justification. It is because the European Commission, by the way, was used to an absolutely subservient government: it was enough to cough up the PSD/CDS government to impose more cuts or higher taxes on those who work. This was a bad habit of the European Commission — there was no noise, there was no discussion! But now the situation has changed and the European Commission will have to understand this change.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u132	in this perspective, I also wanted to say here that the Greens will unconditionally support the current government whenever it offers resistance to the pressures of the European Union. In fact, we know what hurts right! What hurts to the right is not the credibility of this budget vis-à-vis the European Commission; what hurts to the right is that we can be faced with a State budget which seeks budgetary management with the recovery of income and the defense of the social state. I know this is weird for the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what we are trying to do in this State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u134	Therefore, if there is a problem, it does not reside in the credibility of the State budget with the European Commission; the problem, to be found, lies in the structural adjustment which the previous Government was not able to do, because what has been attributed a structural effect to the measures that have always been presented as provisional, exceptional and transitional.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u135	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u136	I will finish, Mr. President. That's what happened, and that's what hurts right. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you share this reading. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u137	You now have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr. Miguel Morgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u138	Mr President, having listened to Mr João Paulo Correia's speech and previous interventions, I believe that this has to raise in us, in this House, a concern that is not small. The essence of this language and this discourse is the very thing we have known in history for many centuries, which is the essence of millenarianism: this all began when we were announced a new time — the new time is the essence of millenaryism. This is, here, a new time which, well seen in Portugal, is founded by the implementation of a « management», but which has the responsibility to operate a regeneration of humanity. And, retrospectively, what exists, what has always existed has always been a 'dark past' — by chance it was a 'dark past' that lasted only four years — and a permanent rewrite of history. The exhibition by João Paulo Correia, Member of the Socialist Party, on the last four years and on everything that has happened from an economic and social point of view: he has forgotten the detail, of course irrelevant, that he is no longer part of the millenniumist narrative, of which he was exactly his party, of which he is representative, who led the country to bankruptcy and brought us the Memorandum of Understanding. [[PSD applause.]] It's amazing how PS wants to erase the memory of Portuguese! But then we have more of this millennialist essence, which belongs to totalitarian parties—we must not be afraid of words: to convert defeats into victories! And now we're already waiting for, soon after night or tomorrow, to convert minimum governance requirements into heroic facts,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... political defeats in extraordinary deeds, by which the Portuguese people must be eternally grateful. But more and worse: what we have seen in recent days is the PS deliberately inventing a totalitarian narrative that confuses the democratic critics of a government, as it should be in any representative democracy, with the enemies of the homeland, with the traitors that are among us, with the saboteurs...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u139	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u140	We had this language, in Portugal, for more than 40 years! We thought it was over on April 25, but it's not over! This, coming from a party like the Socialist Party, corroborates our democratic culture! This is very serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u141	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u142	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u143	I shall conclude by asking a question. Mr João Paulo Correia presented us here, first of all, the State Budget for 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u144	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u145	But the Assembly of the Republic doesn't know him yet. The only thing we know is a government budget outline that has been destroyed in its credibility. And the question I ask, concerning the question raised between temporary and structural measures, is whether Mr. João Paulo Correia is aware that, for example, the full refund of pensions and the gradual recovery of salaries of public servants took place in 2015, in a Budget that was presented in October 2014...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u146	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. It has already exceeded its time by more than 50 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u147	... and, in turn, presented in the Stability Programme in April 2014, still with the troika here!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u149	Therefore, once and for all who have just thrown dust into the eyes of the Portuguese, saying that one thing was said in Brussels and another in Portugal, because that is false, and the timetable shows it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u150	For a request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, over the past four years, the PSD and the CDS have been cutting incomes, wages, pensions, CSI, CSI, support for the elderly, support for children, sold the State, privatized almost everything there was for « tuta and half» in very unclear processes, but they have always said that it was not for taste, that they did it not for ideology or for political project, but for external imposition. Therefore, they said that everything they did that was bad for the country and that they recognized that impoverishment of the country was on the orders of Brussels, it was on the orders of the markets, it was on the orders of Germany. The country went to the elections. You want the gentlemen. Members like not to like it, there is a parliamentary majority who supports a policy change and today there is a government that seeks to present a budget that, although it is not all that was necessary and enough to give the country the impulse it needed to have, in fact, a different direction, is a Budget that does the essential, it is a Budget that points out that the poverty policy has come to an end, it has had an end! Austerity is not the way to economic recovery. It is a Budget that points out that it is time to recover the minimums of dignity. And what is dignity? It is not for public employees to work longer hours receiving the same, because the right to work is inviolable and the right to pay also. The dignity is to think that the holidays that democracy has decided were theirs, because they symbolize important moments of our collective and historical life, are not violable in the name of any external imposition. This is dignity that this budget and this government want to restore. And the government does this by meeting the European policy criteria for structural deficit and nominal deficit. And the right, which has always said that it only cut because it was necessary and because it was an external imposition, now that it has the possibility to have a Budget that restores income, what does it do? It is going to run with the external imposition to say « please do not let the Budget pass», « please go through this Budget»!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u152	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u153	And do so regardless of this process to stop the budget bring instability to the country, regardless of being bad to the country, regardless of humiliating democracy and humiliating this Parliament, including the honourable Members. Members, who are part of this democracy. Therefore, the right is not concerned about the country, the right is concerned about its survival, because it knows that it only survives if the European Commission crushes democracy, because this is the only way these people tolerate having another government of the PSD and the CDS. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u154	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. To reply, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u155	Mr President, this Budget is the moment that determines the end of austerity in Portugal, whether the right will or will not, or whether the right will like it or not. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The right had four and a half years to reverse austerity, but he always told the country and the Portuguese that austerity was imposed by Brussels, that there was no way to counter it. However, this budget proves that in 2015, in 2014 and perhaps in 2013 it would have been possible to reverse austerity if the previous government had not been submitted to Brussels as it has been in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The right also wanted to convince us during these years that the troika entered here and that this austerity was also imposed on PSD/CDS governance. But it is worth recalling what Dr. Eduardo Catroga said in March 2011 about negotiations with the troika: he said that the negotiation was essentially influenced by the PSD. You have developed austerity policy by conviction and ideological agenda, not only because it was imposed by the Memorandum of Troika. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Moreover, Mr. Prime Minister, in June 2011, said that he would abide by the agreement — that is, the Memorandum of Understanding — and that he would go further. Therefore, austerity was developed by the previous government, PSD / CDS, because it strongly believed that it was part of the ideological agenda to go beyond austerity. Mr. Miguel Morgado, as regards the forecasts and macroeconomic scenario of the 2016 budget and its economic framework, the PSD has lost a great opportunity here to make a plausible critique. Neither Mr Luís Campos Ferreira nor Mr Luís Morgado managed to make a plausible criticism of the forecasts and the macroeconomic framework. They forgot what Fitch and UTAO said about the 2015 State Budget presented by the previous Government, the PSD and the CDS : they said they had detected several weaknesses that removed credibility from the government proposal. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the subject of critique of forecasts, you have lost much more than this government with the presentation of the State budget for 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u156	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u157	Mr. President, Mr. João Paulo Oliveira,... [[João Paulo Correia!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u158	João Paulo Correia. I'm so sorry. In fact, we've known each other for years. Sir, I heard your speech and I confess that I found it... I don't know if it was an intervention, if it was a sort of, I'd say, an almost ongoing whitening operation. It is just that, notice, to the constant whitening that they do what was the action of a PS government that led to the pre-bancarrot, which led to the troika and a Memorandum that apparently in your narrative seems to have always fallen from heaven to the trombotons and in which no one had any participation, we are used to, it is no novelty—in fact, I have not heard anything else from you in recent years. But now we have heard two arguments which seem particularly worrying to me, Mr President. Mr Deputy's first argument is: 'Who disagrees with me and who disagrees with us is against Portugal'. I am particularly concerned about this, Mr, because it is possible to disagree with you without being against Portugal. And I hope you have this conscience, because I am beginning to hear this argument very repeatedly either through the honourable Member or through many others. Members, including the PCP and the Left Block. Mrs. Members, it is possible to think that the government's action is critical, it is possible to have criticism of the Budget, but that does not mean to be against Portugal. We are in favour of Portugal, we have no doubt that between Portugal and any European or international institution that we defend Portugal and the Portuguese. That does not mean that we cannot criticize the government. There is a big difference between criticizing the government and criticizing the country, and not understanding this is characteristic of regimes that did not leave memories happy. So back up while it's time. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] I know that the narrative works, but it is appropriate to realize the seriousness of what is being said, because if they do not respect us, remember that there are many Portuguese people who think like us and they are no less Portuguese and therefore deserve the same respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u159	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u160	The second part of the narrative is to say that the blame was on the previous government, i.e. that the current government has resolved — and I am not going to discuss the question of the structural balance... The honourable Member says that the criteria are questionable—of course they are, Mr! And he says that the current government has tried to do—I don't mean « hammer... »—creative accounting, has been caught...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u161	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u162	Of course, Mr. President. Thank you for your tolerance, I would like to say to Mr. João Paulo Correa that this is your Budget, your negotiation. The time has come for everyone to assume their responsibilities. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u163	To request clarification, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u164	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, I begin by recalling that there are two elements of the appreciation of the State budget that are fundamental to us. On the one hand, I refer to the realization of the joint position between the PS and the CFP on the political situation and the need for the State budget as a basis for affirming the general sense of reversal of the national policy of exploitation, impoverishment and decline which was carried out so diligently by the previous Government, the PSD and the CDS. Another element that I cannot but mention is the unacceptable pressure, the blackmail being carried out by the European Commission on the presentation of the State budget outline. The European Commission is attempting to draw up the debate on a seemingly technical field, is talking about one-off, structural balance and other things, but the real concern of the European Commission is to prevent urgent and necessary measures for the Portuguese people. What the European Commission wants, with the support of the PSD and the CDS, to say with all the letters, is to prevent the refund of unduly cut wages that the PSD and the CDS said here in Portugal are temporary, but that in Brussels they said they were final. What it is to prevent the return of pensions that were stolen, also with the collaboration of the CDS, which at the time claimed to be the party of taxpayers, is to prevent the reduction of the brutal tax burden imposed on labour income, also with the participation of the CDS, which at the time claimed to be the party of taxpayers ; what they want is to prevent the reduction of working hours and the replacement of paid holidays. In short, what the European Commission wants with this blackmail and pressure campaign, supported by the PSD and the CDS, is to maintain the settlement of rights, to maintain the confiscation of income and the attack on the social functions of the State, because this, Mr. Members of the PSD and the CDS, it is your option,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u165	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u166	... an option that we reject, affirming an alternative. Your way, the path that they wanted to impose on the country is not inevitable and therefore in view of this attempt to blackmail and pressure by the European Union, with the support of the PSD and the CDS, we understand that it is necessary to give an answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u167	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u168	I conclude now, Mr President. As I said, it is necessary to give a firm and unequivocal answer, an answer to affirm the defense of the national interest. That is the answer we give to the pressure and blackmail of the European Commission. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u169	To reply, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, over the years the CDS has been used to us, when it is in the opposition, to wear lamb's skin and, when it goes to the government, to wear wolf's skin. The CDS, when it is in opposition, is the taxpayer's party, is the farmer's party, is the pensioner's party ; when it goes to the government it supports the greater brutal increase in taxes that has been seen since April 25, it supports the freezing of 80% of pensions, supports the introduction of the overtax of IRS ; when it is in government it supports the cuts in wages, supports the cuts in pensions. The CDS is bipolar from the point of view of the political-party framework: it has a position when it is in opposition and has a radically different position when it is in power. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Cecilia Meireles, we know that if the CDS continued to form government with the PSD they would keep cuts in public service salaries, keep cuts in pensions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u171	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u172	... would maintain the overtax, maintain the ESC and, even if they did not choose to return cuts made in public service, gradually eliminate the overtax, gradually eliminate the ESC. This was not your way; your way was to continue to defend austerity. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u173	For some years they have been submitted to Brussels. It seems that the right has not yet discovered and does not have in its political communication lexicon the word « negotiation ». The word « negotiation » does not exist for PSD and CDS. Negotiating is what the Government is doing with the European Commission, without questioning the main electoral commitments, without jeopardising the main commitments set out in the Government Programme, without calling into question the parliamentary agreements defined with the CFP, the Left Block and the Greens, without calling into question the repeal of cuts in public office wages, without jeopardising the gradual elimination of the ESC and the overtax and without jeopardizing the replacement of social minimums. It is therefore a budget that safeguards the main commitments and fiscal, fiscal and macroeconomic policy. What the CDS has inhabited us over the years, especially when it is in opposition, the Portuguese rejected in the polls. It will certainly come from Brussels to reject this austerity policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u174	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This week the increase in salaries by more than 150 % of the members of the Board of Directors of the Civil Aviation Regulatory Entity, ANAC, was reported. This increase, which in fact considers the obligation to pay retroactives as of July 2015, is a new episode of an old novel. And in this novel we are always surprised at every new episode. in a country that has the highest levels of wage inequality in Europe, the millionaire wages of top public managers are an insult to social democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u177	The case of regulatory entities will perhaps be the most obvious example of this reality. More: the right has always insisted on the idea that privatization represents a measure of alleged economic rationality. They're not. They've never been. in this game of privatization, the regulators always functioned as a rotating board between who decides, who supervises and who earns. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u178	For the Left Block, of course: regulatory entities should serve to regulate, protect the state and people and not to function as a centre of social and political reproduction. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a simple research demonstrates the scandal that these salaries represent. On average, each member of the Administration of these entities receives 2, 5 times more than the Prime Minister's salary. In total, the State spends almost 60 people on income million, almost EUR 20 million per year, equivalent to the annual salary of more than 3000 workers with the national minimum wage. [[It's a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u179	The wage difference between those who earn the national minimum wage and top managers is 26 times, with 25 % of the workers receiving the minimum wage and a good part of them receiving up to 600 €. These numbers are another evident proof of how to privatize the strategic sectors and monopolies are increasingly expensive to the country. Well the right can now come and say, as I have already said, that I wanted very much to limit the salaries of public managers and that it was the troika that did not leave. We remember and remind ourselves that it was this same right which in July 2013 refused, in the specialty, the limitation of dues within the framework of the Framework Law of Regular Entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u180	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u181	More: even in the above case of the ANAC Board of Directors, it was an office of the right-wing government itself, dated 31 July last year, which appointed two of the three elements of the committee of salaries which now decided on the increases. The practice of the right is proof of its political inconsistency. But let us be clear: if the right is now consistent with what I said two years ago, there is no reason why the proposal to limit the salaries of public managers is not approved unanimously here in the House. The Left Block assumes its share of responsibility and will present in this Assembly a proposal to limit the salaries of top public managers. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is not acceptable for a public manager to receive more than the Prime Minister. If anyone, in order to ensure his independence, needs to earn more than the Prime Minister knows that no money can actually guarantee his independence. I end as I began: in a country that has the highest levels of wage inequality in Europe, the millionaire wages of top public managers are an insult to democracy itself. The same political centre that you found whenever it was impossible to increase the minimum wage is what has always closed your eyes to the millionaire wages of some public managers. And that must end. As for the commitment and the requirement, we have already achieved the commitment to the increase in the minimum wage of those who live in their work, those for whom the month is always shorter than the needs. It is now time for those who do not accept inequality to be the rule in a country that must respect themselves. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u182	Mr. Heitor Sousa, three are registered. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u183	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u184	So, for this purpose, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u185	Ah! They're ready now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u186	We choose the interlocutors! Let's pick those who are going to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I could have made the choice of the interlocutor based on this remark, but that's not what I wanted to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u188	Say what was the reason!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u189	It was not for democratic legitimacy or for any other reason, or for preference, that was only and only because I think that this matter deserves to be discussed calmly, it deserves to be deepened and, on my part, it will be. And it's a story the Socialist Party knows well! But, Mr Heitor Sousa, I wanted to start by saying two things to you in a very clear way: the CDS considers these losses unacceptable from an ethical point of view, and now considers it as it did in the past. I have to tell you, sirs. Members, that the history that the Socialist Party knows well is that this was one of the laws that was inscribed in the Memorandum, together with others,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u190	No salary limit? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u191	... Recalling that which was signed and negotiated by the spender of the Republic, which is the Socialist Party, to whom the Communist Party now joins and the Left Block. [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, it was by virtue of the PSD and the CDS that the mating committees were set up against that which was an imposition of the troika, of the degovernment of the regulators, who had in their performance, as well as in the law of incompatibilities, very fixed barriers. We have also managed to introduce the criteria set out in Article 26 ( 3 ) from the matrimonial committees. (a) the size, complexity, requirement and responsibility inherent in the functions; (b) the impact on the regulated market of the fee, tariff or contribution scheme established by the regulatory entity;’...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u192	I would ask you to synthesize it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u193	I shall sum up, Mr President. By continuing to quote: « (c) The usual market practices(...) » — and now this point is more important — « (d) The economic situation, the need for adjustment and the necessary remunerative restraint in which the country is located and the Prime Minister's monthly maturity». Do you know whether or not the salaries of public managers are already indexed to the Prime Minister's maturity?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u194	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u195	He said recently to the Greens Ecologist Party that the committee used the Order of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u196	Do you have the courage to justify the increases? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u197	Did you meet the criteria we set here? He didn't do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u198	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u199	That is why we call Parliament's committee of dues.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u200	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u201	I must tell you more, Mr President, to conclude: the CDS, as in the past, is available for the legislative amendments that you think are necessary. Here we shall be voting in favour of these same amendments! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u202	You have the floor now, too, to ask for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u203	Mr President, Mr Heitor Sousa, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the subject that has brought us here and that the Greens, today, have also brought here, because it actually allows us to deepen the issue a little further. And it allowed, essentially the CDS, to make your reflection...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u204	I've already done it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u205	Oh, did you? Oh, my God! As I was saying, this theme allowed the CDS to make its reflection and edit it here in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. But, Mr. Heitor Sousa, as you have noticed, is an extremely incoherent reflection, because there was a debate in the Assembly of the Republic, here, in this same Chamber, in 2013,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u206	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u207	... on the Framework Law of Regulatory Entities, where the PSD/CDS Government was directly questioned regarding the lack of criteria for the definition of the salary limit of administrators and the Secretary of State at that time was very peremptory in the response, stating that it expected people to have good sense, that there was wisdom and that they should take into account the country's economic situation. Well, it was in these hands that we were in, Mr. Deputies! And then, as you mentioned, there were amendments which the PSD and the CDS rejected. Now says the CDS, Mr. Heitor Sousa, that it is available to make an amendment. I would also like to inform you — and this has already been implied in my reply to the Greens' political statement — that the Greens will move forward with a concrete proposal to amend the law. It is that, when we are confronted with concrete and absolutely shameful facts, we must give our hand to a concrete answer, and the concrete answer must come from the hands of the Assembly of the Republic. All parliamentary groups have this responsibility and, therefore, the Greens will also assume it. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u208	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u209	Mr President, Mr. Heitor Sousa, I want to start by returning to the same Ata as I have just remembered. The CFP, when the Framework Law, which has been quoted, has been discussed in the plenary, said and will continue to state how often it is necessary, that « we do not accept that these regulatory entities serve as second government, not accountable to the voters, with decisions for which the government says nothing, in a supposed technical neutrality. We do not accept that these entities function as an alibi, as a scapegoat of government policies and options, of their results and consequences ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u210	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u211	And continuing: « At present the situation that we have and that this bill is enshrined in the fact that the government designates the administrations of the entities, puts them in a kind of remote control and then formally departs from the supervision and control of the sectors concerned ». It wasn't for lack of warning, sirs. Members of the PSD and the CDS! This is extraordinary! The PSD did not want this to be discussed in today's plenary, strangely bringing the matter to the dance! The CDS now came to justify these scandalous increases, invoking the law it approved, with the PSD, in the Assembly of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u212	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u213	The same CDS, whose Minister of Economics participated directly and personally in the appointment of such a Committee on Wages which was settled in these scandalous increases! How do you understand, Mr President, that the increase has been applied to these managers with retroactives? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u214	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u215	This, when does the law expressly prohibit these retroactives? Oh, my God! How is it understood that these administrators have been conveniently waiting from June to October to receive the accumulated and retroactively increased dues by 150 %? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u216	And the CDS agrees!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u217	How can it be admitted that there is a National Civil Aviation Authority responsible for, for example, for decisions on airport charges, which is chaired by a former ANA administrator — Airports of Portugal, who, in view of the fact that here in the Assembly of the Republic, told Members that he would not take part in decisions on such matters? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u218	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u219	Finally, Mr President, how can it be admitted that this happens when the other two administrators in office are another high picture of ANA — Airports of Portugal, therefore in the same situation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u220	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u221	...and an ex-advisor of the then Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro, appointed by this, who went to the INAC and was there staying until today? Oh, my God! The last question, Mr President and Mr Deputies, is as follows: how do you understand and accept that the principal wages, decided and increased by 150 %, have been illegally kept in secret until the complaint that has now been made? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u222	To reply, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to reply briefly to each of the requests for clarification which has been addressed to me and which I am grateful for. Mr Hélder Amaral, gives the idea that you come here to play a "screen" role in relation to what was the reality of the governance of the CDS itself when you were in government. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u224	It's to clear up the whole story!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u225	... but when your Government decided to cut pensions and wages it did not need any time, nor was it invoked, to further this matter, it immediately cut the budget in the first budget that the PSD and CDS government had the responsibility to draw up. Therefore, this discussion of the need for a time of deepening cannot be systematically invoked and reminds us of the conversations that are filled with « crocodile tears», of whom, when he was in the government, did not do what he now says should have been done. In this respect, reference is made here to the committee on salaries. The CDS is available for this committee process to be reviewed, but it is worth saying that what is in the Framework Law was violated at the same time as the Act was passed. It is that what is in the Law is the statement of a series of regulatory entities which, on the day following the approval of this Framework Law, were already paid above the reference criterion of the Prime Minister's salary, which Mr Hélder Amaral here invoked. So, let's say, this is some kind of reliable conversation that the right one likes to do, but when he's in opposition, he's always more demanding than when he's in government. With regard to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia's questions, I am of course very much in agreement with the fact that I have mentioned here for future memory and for our memory and for the Government, that there have been proposals to limit the salaries of top public managers who have been rejected here. This cannot fail to be mentioned even when we re-examine this matter again. It is not a story that is being told for the first time, it is a story that already has several episodes and therefore it is appropriate to remember these episodes so that we can be consistent with what we defend and say here, in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u226	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u227	Finally, with regard to what has been said by Mr Bruno Dias, to whom I also thank the question, it is entirely true the statement that it made that they were the ministers of the CDS themselves, in this case Dr. António Pires de Lima, who appointed, with great connoisseurs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u228	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u229	... members of the Committee on Wages who decided these millionaire wages and who also decided the application of retroactives to June 2015, which is truly shameful and nothing is sufficient for the independence of these winning commissions. [[Congratulations from BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u230	For a political declaration, Mr João Pinho de Almeida now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's takeover of the BANIF Committee of Inquiry justifies, in itself, a political declaration in this legislative period. However, what has happened during this debate, and since this is already the last political declaration,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u232	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u233	... moreover, the penultimate political statement — corrects me well, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia — leads us to take a look at what has happened here with regard to the State budget. It is that the State budget is too important for the debate to take place in accordance with what has been done. There is something that, for the CDS, is obvious—and for the CDS speaks the CDS, as much as Mr. Members on the left tend to want to be them to define what the CDS is or is no longer — which is the criticism we presented during the period when we were under the management of the troika. We said several times that technical criteria could not be exceeded to political decisions, we said several times that we did not accept or accept instructions from technicians who were not mandated to override national sovereignty. So, for us, this is not a new matter. We are still on the side of political sovereignty, of legitimate governments and against the dictatorships of bureaucracy. [[CDS-PP applause.]] No one can accuse the CDS of at any time defending any position whatsoever of any bureaucratic structure of the European Union against that which is the democratic position of the Portuguese State. Another thing that is completely different is the credibility of what each government does in each country. And it is up to each government to make their proposals, to respond for them, to gain credibility and then to withdraw their results to present their citizens. This is the responsibility of the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens Ecological Party to be able to make a proposal for a State Budget, to submit here, to subject themselves to debate, to execute, and therefore to be evaluated. This is how it works in democracy! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u234	We know what our role is: we are in opposition, we are going to beat ourselves by the alternative proposals to those presented, we will monitor the implementation of the State budget, and we will certainly, in the end, evaluate the promises and realization of them in reality and, above all, the effect that the investments in the budget policy that was being followed for the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u236	That is how it must be in democracy, without demagogy, without accusations of lack of patriotism and without that sterile debate that we have witnessed here recently. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Speaking about BANIF, I would like to say the following: BANIF justifies the establishment of a committee of inquiry for the reasons that were invoked by all parties when they voted in favour of the approval of the same committee of inquiry, but, if not, that creation was already justified by the hearing we did here in the Committee on Budget, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on Friday, of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal and the Minister of Finance. The glaring contradictions between the two justify Parliament's greatest concern about what happened with BANIF. When we have a Governor of the Banco de Portugal saying that he has been led by the Minister of Finance to initiate a resolution process and we have a Minister of Finance who says that he has not taken any decisions on this resolution process, we have to find out the truth about the facts! The truth cannot, in this case - I am very sorry - be on both sides. The truth, at best, will be on one side. And I say « in the best possible way», because at the same time we are confronted with communications from the European Commission, with decisions to be taken by the Portuguese State before the deadlines for the Portuguese State to decide are complete. And that is our turn to ask: where is this government defending national autonomy and sovereignty? How can it be admitted that there are communications from the European Union, before the deadlines are ended, saying who will be chosen to be with a Portuguese bank, which is also above the Spanish bank with interest in the national bank and a brutal dispute against the Portuguese State for contracts previously signed with the Portuguese State? [[CDS-PP applause.]] We need to know that this whole series of facts has happened in a short time. The time when the Banif resolution was made and the terms in which it was made have greatly affected the Portuguese taxpayers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u237	To date, it has not been possible to ascertain the Bank's true liquidity situation. No one was able to prove to us that the loss of the counterparty status was imminent and that the Bank had to be liquidated at that time. No one has been able to prove to us that responsibilities are being established on a leak of information that has had drastic consequences on the market and that has greatly affected the value by which the Bank could be sold. No one has been able to demonstrate to us why it was not possible to create a transitional bank, which would have greatly facilitated asset management, valuation and thus the remuneration of the money that taxpayers had to apply in this resolution. It is sufficient to look at the deliberation of the BES resolution and the deliberation of the BANIF resolution to understand the detail of one and the absence of any other detail, to perceive the rigor of one and the absence of the other's rigor. A bank resolution could not have been made at this time, nor could it have been so! [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] And the accounts are easy to do...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u238	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u239	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the accounts are easy to do: made right now and in this way, the Banif resolution cost taxpayers EUR 1700 million and only EUR 489 million to the financial system — all contrary to what happened to the New Bank resolution. So who made an option of these,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u240	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u241	... to take a recent option from another government, at another time it must respond to this and it will certainly respond in the Committee of Inquiry, on the impulse of the CDS, which will not fail to question and demand all responsibilities. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u242	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, the Bureau records four requests for clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u243	I will answer individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u244	Therefore, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor to make his request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u245	Mr President, Mr João Pinho de Almeida, the CDS, since BANIF has been resolved, has progressively been placing on the table everything that has happened during the last three weeks of the Bank, but in the analysis that you have done here, in this Parliament, you have been unable to wonder what happened for three years, in which the State was the principal shareholder of BANIF. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the beginning of history, Mr President. The principle of history is that time when the Portuguese State becomes the main shareholder of BANIF. He was the principal shareholder of BANIF for three years, he was responsible for management, he was the main shareholder, he was the owner and, being the owner, he was not able to watch for his heritage, which is the heritage of all of us, of those we represent here, leaving to the future government a bank on the brink of liquidation or resolution. Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, we are all very concerned about what happened. We really want to know what happened, we want to learn from the mistakes, but, Mr President, the mistakes have certainly not been made in three weeks. Three years of administration of BANIF, an administration that failed to protect the interests of the State, the interests of the shareholder State, basically the interests of all of us. Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, I would like to leave you an objective question. The CDS-PP wants to clear the truth. What are we going to do with the eight restructuring proposals? What evaluation does the Member of an administration make eight proposals for restructuring and in which none of them is accepted? [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u246	To reply, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u247	Mr President, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, thank you very much for the questions put. One objective question gives an objective answer: we will evaluate all the proposals. All of them! One by one! We will evaluate one by one because we will only assess one by one that we will understand the responsibility of the board of directors, which was the responsibility of the State as shareholder, which was the responsibility of the European Commission, which was on the other hand, as the honourable Member also knows and does not ignore, and which defended the Bank's liquidation. So we have to contextualize what was at stake. Before a European Commission defending the liquidation of the Bank, the dismissal of all its officials,... [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] ... the loss of the value of all deposits, the Portuguese State committed itself, with the board of directors, to making eight restructuring plans. There are many, we agree! It's very strange! It's three years, we have to evaluate them! There's no problem with that! Do you know why I spoke only of the rest, Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias? I explained it! It is because we heard the Governor of the Banco de Portugal and the current Minister of Finance last Friday, but we have not yet heard the former Minister of Finance and therefore we cannot draw conclusions before we hear who, of course, has responsibility at every moment of the process. Let's hear it and hurry. What I assure you is one thing: the eight restructuring proposals have always been opposed to the European Commission's position of liquidating the Bank and were made by the previous government. What happened was that they stopped the layoffs and prevented the loss of the warehouses. What happened to this government was that, at the first impulse for the Bank to be resolved, it found, it shut down and resolved the Bank in accordance with what the European Commission wanted it to solve. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] In the Committee of Inquiry, we will see if more than three years have been worth resisting the momentum of the European Commission,... [[PS protests.]] ... or if we lose more, in those three weeks, because we did not resist what the European Commission wanted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u249	The difference is also explained for one reason, Mr. Member: it was not I who said, it was Mr. Governor of the Banco de Portugal who said here that...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u250	Attention to your time, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u251	I will now finish, Mr President. As you said, it was the Governor of Banco de Portugal who said here that in one week — in that week that you spoke — the Bank lost more than the whole year before. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u252	The difference is there: you lost more deposits in a week than in a year! That's why this week is so important. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u253	To request clarification, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u254	Mr President, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, your political statement, which I welcome, has two parts. We share, almost in perfection, what I said in the first part, particularly about this already long and complicated process of approval of the State budget. We hope that this process will have a good conclusion and that this conclusion will be quick and will not bring any more emphasis on the credibility of Portugal. In the second part of his political statement, he spoke about BANIF. Today he held a committee of inquiry on BANIF. contrary to public statements we have heard on this matter, we in the PSD will not forward conclusions and share their doubts, the multiple concerns and anxieties expressed in the rostrum. We believe that the worst state of mind in which you are going to a committee of inquiry is to do so, of course, with the conclusions ahead of time. And so we're not gonna do it! We want to make sure that the facts are strictly, responsibly, with the sense of tolerance which, especially in the committees of inquiry, the majority must have by the minorities. Moreover, in this Committee of Inquiry we have a bottle to reach, in particular the last Committee of Inquiry to BES/GES, where, once again, no request for documentation or hearings from the then parliamentary minority has been dropped by the one that was, at the time, the parliamentary majority. I hope, Mr Pinho de Almeida, that this democratic spirit will be maintained and that the BES/GES Commission of Inquiry has not finally been a period of democratic lucidity, but the paradigm from which this committee of inquiry to BANIF will be built. I want to tell you, too, Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u255	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u256	I will finish, Mr. President. I also want to tell you that the PSD Parliamentary Group is available to hear, to investigate, to inquire all those, come from where they come from, who have collaborated, to know what happened in the BANIF. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u257	To reply, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u258	Mr President, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, obviously the worst way to go to an inquiry committee is to do so with the conclusions already drawn. Now, we must all depart in an open spirit, but we must not depart without concern, especially when these concerns attack us, from whom we should have the responsibility to ensure the serenity and certainty of decisions. Mr President, I say that we have not started well, but we can still correct. In fact, the time for voting on the draft proposals for setting up the Committee of Inquiry was not a good sign in relation to this spirit. In the CDS, as well as the PSD, we voted in favour of all the Commission of Inquiry creation projects. Why? Because we understood that the more comprehensive the object, the more comprehensive the recitals, the more we could extend what was at stake, the more comprehensive it would certainly also be the scope of the investigation and the result that we could achieve. The current majority had a completely different position: it approved, uniquely and exclusively, its project, rejecting all those we presented, including that of the audit, which was presented by the PSD. Therefore, we sincerely hope that this was just a bad start and a bad sign and that what prevails is what Mr said, that it was the practice of the previous majority, PSD and CDS, that in the various committees of inquiry that took place during the previous legislature, not only did he reject demands from the opposition as he has always fought, and he managed to achieve it, in the sense that the final reports were not reports imposed by a majority, but rather reports worked by all and that deserve consensus, so that they were reports of a Parliament and not reports of a majority. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u259	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u260	Mr President, Mr João Almeida, I would like to congratulate you on your statement. First of all, as my comrade Paulo Sá has already mentioned, the evaluation that the CFP will make of the Budget presented is precisely within the framework of the evaluation of the capacity to respond to this Budget to the realization of the joint position between the PS and the CFP and the assessment on the inversion of the political direction of impoverishment and increase of exploitation which have been imposed by the PSD and the CDS on the pretext of foreign taxes. However, over time, we have been finding that they were applied with particular commitment and fervor by a PSD and a CDS that is quite applied to punish the Portuguese by the bans and the adventures of the bankers and the large national economic groups. The honourable Member also spoke about the context in which this assessment is made. However, the CFP understands this context as a blackmail context of the European institutions on national sovereignty. The honourable Member says that no one can question the patriotism of anyone. But, honourable Member, our homeland is different: its homeland is that of the large economic groups and the profits of shareholders; the homeland of the CFP is the homeland of the workers, it is the life of the workers, the well-being of the pensioners and pensioners. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests of PSD and CDS-PP, having the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles beaten with his hands at the end of the bench.]] We do not measure the well-being of the Portuguese homeland in the stock exchanges, nor in the value of the actions of the large economic groups, and much less limit patriotism to walking around as a national flag in the lapel to provide vassalage to Germany. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on patriotism, we have different concepts, certainly. Mr Piinho de Almeida, on BANIF, is right when he says that all the conditions and facts in which the process has taken place must be clarified and the CFP will make all the contribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u261	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u262	I will finish, Mr. President. Of course, it is necessary to clarify the facts on the part which you have referred to, particularly on the part of the resolution, but it is also necessary to clarify the facts concerning the process that has led us so far. And if it is true, to what it indicates, that the resolution process, either from the point of view of DGComp, of the European institutions, either from the point of view of the action of the Government, in everything it has contributed to the bank's being given cleaning up of its toxic assets to Santander, it is still clear whether the previous PSD/CDS Government has not done everything and has not been pushing the garbage under the carpet precisely so that the outcome would be this and only that : to deliver a bank already clean to Santander. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u263	To reply, Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Miguel Tiago, as you will estimate, the issue of patriotism will deserve a special word, so I will respond first to the rest. On the motion for a resolution, it is good to hear from the CFP that it also has the idea that the resolution process conducted by this Socialist Party Government has, so to speak, handed over BANIF to Santander by hand, because this proves that even within the majority that supports this Government the way in which the process was conducted deserves the greatest doubts and the biggest issues. But this will be done in the Committee of Inquiry. On the question of blackmail and national sovereignty, Mr President, we have repeatedly denounced this when we were government. I said it from the rostrum, I said it this bench and I said it myself many times. On the other hand, with me a news that I myself said on June 7, 2013 — on that date who was the ruler, Mr Deputy? Were they the gentlemen or were they us? — 'The effort of the Portuguese has already been at the limit of the acceptable'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u265	Is that when Paulo Portas resigned irrevocably or was it then? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u266	It's a quote. We were always aware of what was at stake, we never went beyond what we had to go, because of the imposition of the memo that was left to us. But one thing we have never done: even in this difficult process, we have never judged the patriotism of anyone, nor have we ever said that one Portuguese was more Portuguese than another. And you don't have that right.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u267	Excuse me, Mr. Miguel Tiago!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u268	You have no right to say that patriot or Portuguese is someone because you are rich or poor, because you are of a certain social origin or because you are of another social origin, because you are of a certain ideological orientation or because you are of another ideological orientation. What you did here was to confuse patriotism with racism, which we do not admit. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We don't distinguish people by race or caste. All Portuguese are equally Portuguese, deserve equal dignity, deserve equal respect and respond in the same way before their actions and before the Portuguese state which, fortunately, is a rule of law and a democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u269	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u270	No one has the right to impose other rules other than respect for human rights and respect for a rule of law, which is the Portuguese State. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u271	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u272	Mr President, Mr João Almeida felt the need to use half of his political statement on BANIF to make a political justification or perhaps a political metamorphosis. It is time the CDS took off the government's clothes. On the other hand, shortly after making that statement in this Parliament as a Member, he agreed to be a member of the government which criticized so much, the government which imposed austerity to the limit.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u273	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u274	Therefore, this is the moment when the CDS takes off the government clothes and clothes the opposition suits by beating his hand in the chest by the country. It is almost like the butterfly of our Portuguese party system: first, it is larva and then it becomes - moving to its position in opposition, ensuring that everything your party did was always obliged and never by political project, never by political decision, autonomous, independent. The honourable Member comes here to accuse the government of giving up Brussels on the sale of BANIF and I think you are right, I think there was a transfer to Brussels on the sale of BANIF. However, I invite you to do a very similar exercise and ask the following question: how is it possible that the European Commission which came to Portugal impose a cost of billions of euros on the sale of BANIF now denies to the country the State budget of a government that the country has democratically elected because of hundreds of millions of euros? Are you able to ask this question? What I think is that you are not interested in defending the country of the European Commission. He is interested in using the European Commission to attack the government, even if that is against the country, as is the case with the discussion of the State budget. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u275	Mr Deputies, for BANIF, we are obviously available to discharge all responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u276	They're not, no! They voted against our project!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u277	All of them! Even if they include the government that we, the majority of parliament, support and the State budget, which we also support. We are available to clear up all the responsibilities, we have never escaped this inquiry, and we also hope, as Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim said, that the democratic spirit that remained in the Committee of Inquiry into BES remained in this Committee of Inquiry and that it is not repeated what happened, for example, in the Commission of Inquiry into Submarines, chaired by Mr Telmo Correia, of the CDS, in which the former Secretary of State Paulo Nuncio was prevented from coming to the Commission of Inquiry after having proved that he worked for a company that had collaborated to create false counterparts in the case of submarines.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u278	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u279	in this case, the coming to a specific hearing was plunged by a right-wing majority in a Commission chaired by Mr Telmo Correia. I hope that doesn't happen! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u280	For a political statement, which will be the last of this afternoon, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the Portuguese Communist Party has the floor. [[Pause.]] Mr João Almeida, I did not wish to coercate the right to reply by Mr Almeida in any way. With the greatest taste and apologizing to you, you have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u281	I know you're sincere, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, on the first part, wanted to tell you that I was proud to be part of a parliamentary majority that never lost the critical spirit and that when I had to criticize the European institutions that wanted to impose solutions that we disagreed with. As I am also very proud to have been part of a government that has ended this black period of being subject to external taxation, to an external memorandum and to a resident troika that has begun to return income to Portuguese, incomes that you do not start to return, just keep returning, because whoever started this process was us, thanks to what we, with the Portuguese, achieved for three very difficult years and yet without losing the critical spirit and the ability to have an opinion. As for the rest, you are completely wrong, Mrs. Member. What we criticize in the European Commission and interference is exactly the same. What I said in the gallery is that, between the European Commission and any legitimate Portuguese government, we are on the side of the legitimate Portuguese Government. We never said the opposite, in no way. If there are technical, irrational impositions on European bureaucratic institutions, against what is the democratic will of a country, surely the democratic will of a country must prevail. What I have said, and I repeat, is that at the same time this democratic will should be accompanied by credibility so as to make it easier to find what the President of the CDS said to the President of the European Commission in Brussels yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u282	To be easier to do what Brussels commands!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u283	And what the President of the CDS said to the President of the European Commission was nothing different than the following: he hoped that the positions would come closer because that was the best way to protect the interests of Portugal. That is exactly the position of the CDS, whoever is in the government with the European institutions: to defend the positions that best defend the national interest. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u284	I'm sorry once again for my lateness. Now, yes, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no full democracy without culture. In the view of the CFP, democracy has four inseparable aspects: political, economic, social and cultural, based on the effective access of all to the creation and use of culture and on the support and freedom of cultural production. However, the way in government terms in recent years has been the opposite of this perspective. The policy of deresponsibility of the State, of financial asphyxiation, of emptying and sub-alternisation of the culture lived, particularly during the last PSD/CDS government was guided by an antidemocratic orientation with tragic consequences. As to: the public investment in culture has fallen to the peak; the sadly famous budget of the lowest state ever for this area, in the year 2015 ; the organic scaffolding; the cuts recognized by the then Secretary of State Barret Xavier in support of the arts; the continuing delays in contests and changes of rules in the middle of the game; excessive bureaucracy and the lack of flexibility and dialogue. More: the imposition of a new language — the ‘platformform’ — to whom I wanted to try to access support; programmes, festivals, shows that were cancelled and companies that had to close doors; the lack of support for literary creation; the serious situation in the archives; the labour problems that could have been solved in relation to the dancers, in particular the National Dance Company, and they were not. Furthermore, the museums, palaces and national monuments which, without the hiring of new workers and with the reform of many of their frameworks, will lose the ability to "pass through the witness" and safeguard knowledge; the protection of the weakened and emptied cultural heritage of human and material means, with obvious difficulties of intervention on the ground; the heritage that has been degraded, the fruit of the flood of decades, and which has been abandoned or, worse still, has been sold to potatoes; unemployment; and the scourge of precariousness. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must speak of the extremely precarious situation of the people of culture, in a reality in which the phenomenon of fat green receipts and in which the right to the future is severely threatened. Culture is work! And work must be work with rights! It is necessary to respond to socio-laboral problems that affect all those who work in culture. Work in culture must be valued by implementing policies that eliminate precariousness in working relationships and promote workers' participation in defining policies that concern them. In the last 15 days alone, at least three trade union structures representing workers in the field of culture have come to the public to claim better working conditions and more investment in the sector. This is a real issue felt by many people and we have already welcomed the fight against this genuine "desert crossing" of the last four years in all the fields of life that has affected culture disastrously as well. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u286	The scene is black and the film could continue. But you need to stop. It's urgent to turn the record and change the music. It is necessary to give a sign that the policy for culture will change, because that was the will of the Portuguese expressed in the last electoral act, which led to a new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic. The areas of culture are, and must be, major social and national issues. There is a delay in this field that needs to be overcome, it is necessary to see a political action that ends the chronic underfinancing of cultural activities; that invests in central support to the democratization of culture; that it combats the bureaucracy of structures and procedures; that it rejects the mercantilization of culture, the mercanization of cultural goods, the elitistization and privatization; that it looks at culture in a strategic way, taking care of the connections and synergies between ministries and services that deal with these areas of culture. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must once and again undo the myth of subsidiarity, this will always be catapulted at times of discussion of the need for greater support for culture and go to the heart of the matter. Investing in culture is to plant a seed of the future, it is to comply with the demand enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which determines the state to be responsible for the democratization of culture, encouraging and ensuring the access of all citizens to cultural exploitation and creation. What we have to talk about here is public service of culture, what to do to structure it and what to constitute an instrument of transformation, emancipation, freedom. It is necessary to reflect and move forward with a coherent strategy that guarantees widespread access to the experience of cultural and artistic creation and use throughout the national territory, giving particular relevance to access to forms, means and instruments of creation. For this, it is essential to move from the outdated paradigm of the secretary without secretary or ministry of everything and something else, just to say that there exists, to the ministry truly worthy of that name, that is, endowed with the proper budgetary, technical, political and human resources that it seeks, in fact, to comply with the constitutional standard of democratization of culture. More and more are the voices that rise in protest against the policy that has been followed, in particular by PSD and CDS, voices that are organized to defend culture, fighting, among other things, to put the discussion of the 1% target for culture on the table. We need to talk about it and start taking steps in that direction. This is not an idea that comes from the outer space, comes from a UNESCO recommendation for countries with a development index similar to Portugal and constitutes the minimum threshold of dignity for the development of art and culture. As long as we stay below this goal, we'll always be running behind the damage. The price we pay for the destruction caused by systematic de-investment in culture is tremendously high. Austerity in culture not only destroys what exists, destroys what is prevented from existing. It destroys the immense transformative, innovative and creative potential of culture, without which there is no development or democratic progress. It's time to make clear that this direction is going to be changed. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u287	Mrs Ana Mesquita, Mrs Mesquita, wrote to ask for clarification, four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. You'll tell me how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u288	Mr President, I shall reply together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u289	All right. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by greeting Mrs Ana Mesquita for bringing the issue of culture to this political statement. It is very welcome to see this issue, which is a subject that will finally be at the top of the political debate. It was brought by you to this plenary, but also by the Government, by the current government, insofar as finally the culture was once again sitting in the Council of Ministers with the creation of the Ministry of Culture, i.e. was rehabilitated to its condition of a structural area in the political thinking and political strategies of the government,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... which, as the honourable Member has said, and quite well, for four years has completely disappeared from Portuguese political thinking and strategy. Over the past four years, culture has been reduced to a national market by secondary instrument, subservient to the economy and markets. We have seen three or four absolutely delusional situations, not to say scandalous, and I am going to give some examples. I remember what happened with the Museum of Cars, which was inaugurated empty of a museum project, void of a museum project, just to mark a political-party agenda; I remember the national movement that formed around the attempt to avoid the sale of an art collection belonging to the State, the Miró Collection, and which, thanks to this national movement, blocked the impulses of the State to get rid of this heritage that belongs to the State, an artistic heritage that the protection of culture has always devalued until the last hour, backed by the Prime Minister of the time. Therefore, we saw everything we thought it would not be possible to watch in terms of devaluation of what we consider to be the mirror and identity, an absolutely structural value of what we want: a modern country, consistent and turned to the future. Madam Member, the question that I put to you is this: today is a political instrument with the weight of ministry covering the area of social communication and having more ambitious political intervention mechanisms, which can be expected to combine social communication with culture in the perspective of its optimization, particularly in the internationalization through audiovisual means. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u291	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Teresa Caeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I would like to congratulate you on bringing the issue of culture to this period of political declarations. We agree with you when you say that culture has to be addressed from the point of view of creation, both from the point of view of profit and from the point of view of internationalization. We disagree, of course — and with all honesty, I believe that it is only in an excessively political and party view — that the statements made, that there was a step backwards from the point of view of the democratization of culture and an emptying, as well as an anti-democratic attitude. I believe that these are concepts so vague and sectarian that, finally, I cannot understand what their motivations are. Madam Member, I would like to ask you very specific questions and ask you to also be specific in the answers. To what extent, as I said, do you think that the concept of subsidiarity should be eliminated? But, more importantly than that, Mrs Deputies, if you do not have more time, I would ask you to give us the indication of the five priorities of the CFP for the area of culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u293	Is that going to the concrete? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u294	What are the five priorities and what do they represent from the point of view of the State budget? These are the fundamental issues I put to you. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u295	Mr Jorge Campos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Mesquita, allow me to congratulate you on your intervention. I believe it is an intervention that is the greatest opportunity, especially that during the past four years very little has been said about culture and much less has been done about culture. In fact, not only did it not happen as it was destroyed, in a general way.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u297	All right! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u298	I would also like to greet the honourable Member for her intervention, to welcome the cultural agents of this country, who have been able to resist these four years by carrying out their tasks and being able, despite all difficulties, to carry out relevant projects and which have to do with a question that is fundamental to the Left Block, which is the question of citizenship.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u299	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u300	There is no citizenship without culture. Culture is at the heart of politics. That's how we understand. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] I'm not going to make a list of the previous government's misdeeds,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u301	You don't even have time!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u302	I apologize for the word used, but I must tell you that the previous government's interventions in this matter have been extremely scarce. There is no knowledge, in particular, of the previous Prime Minister, although at some point he stated that «the Government has promoted systematic work in public policies in the field of culture» and, moreover, promised that by the end of the mandate it would continue to improve the cultural supply. Mrs. Members, this was said in April 2015 at the Cultural Centre of Belém. Indeed, the « plus» came after the elections and I suppose it would have been the creation of a Ministry of Culture, Equality and Citizenship. I think that would have been the consequence of promising more than what I had done!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u303	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u304	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u305	Mr. President, I will finish. I would like to ask Mrs Ana Mesquita the following question: do you believe that culture, in this context, deserves positive discrimination and that short-term measures are required to resolve situations which, depending on what has been created, is an emergency situation? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u306	Finally, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Pimão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u307	Mr President-in-Office, I would like to congratulate Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP and welcome her to bring the issue of culture to Parliament. I would like to say that, as far as you are concerned, we can make three readings. A first reading is that most of his speech was a criticism, by the negative, of the previous government. That could be a reading. A second reading can be an announcement of what the State Budget will be in the area of culture. That's another reading. A third possible reading is that its intervention is a pressure, a call to the Socialist Party regarding what the State budget will be in the area of culture. As for the first reading, we reject it entirely. We completely reject the criticisms you made about the previous government, because the fact is that culture in Portugal is very much alive, Mrs Deputy. And it's very alive because cultural agents continue to work hard to value what their activity is. It is unfortunate that the Portuguese Communist Party has come to this House to defend—and also supported in what Mr. Bloc de Left said—that culture is at the heart of Portuguese politics, but is out of the agreements on the left. Interesting, isn't it? Oh, my God! It's in the heart of politics, but it's out of the agreements on the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u308	They forgot!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u309	And if we refuse the first reading, we refuse the second reading. According to its intervention, the area of culture is underfunded and, therefore, the second reading we make is that it will now be much more financed under the State budget. It's just a disappointment because, right after the honourable Member talks, I spoke to Mrs. Member of the Socialist Party, and nothing! So far, we know nothing about the State budget in the area of culture. Let us wait so that this disappointment we feel here today does not confirm from here a week or two!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u310	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u311	The third reading is to which we are left, that is to know that the Portuguese Communist Party, because it knows the State Budget since it has been in these meetings, realizes that the Budget in the area of culture will not have any significant additions and is, then, giving a message to the Socialist Party, is pressuring it, lamenting itself for the lack of investment in the area of culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u312	Thank you for finishing, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u313	That is what we from here a week or two, Mrs Ana Mesquita, will have the opportunity to see. I shall finish as I began, stressing the added value of bringing the issue of culture into discussion in this Parliament and hoping that the State budget will bring these statements to a close. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u314	In reply, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u315	Mr President, I begin by replying to Mr Pedro Pismão. Sir, are you guys fooling us here? Did the then Secretary of State of Culture say that it was the lowest government budget ever and you are here telling us that culture is of great health? He's not! According to Mr. Jorge Campos, of the Left Block, if anything is alive was with immense sacrifice, a tremendous sacrifice and often due to situations of great precariousness and great difficulty in survival. And this is not a definition of public service of culture; this is an attack on culture; it is the destruction of culture, which you have chosen. [[PCP applause.]] This is not a way to follow — this is the issue. The path that you chose was the path of the destruction of culture. On the issue which Mrs Teresa Caeiro has recently put on our five priorities, I can recommend that she read our electoral programme, because she has all our well-defined and listed priorities there, and she can read them very carefully. But here is a fundamental question, which is this: when you ask us to unmask the issue of subsidiarity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u316	You're not listening!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u317	It seems that Mrs Teresa Caeiro is not hearing the answer, but I am going to continue anyway. As you said, when you ask us to expose the issue of subsidiarity, we answer you with the question of public service. This is the fundamental question. Public service is what matters. It is unfortunate that Mrs Teresa Caeiro was not paying attention, but what we are defending is the logic of public service. As for Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas, we agree very much on the whole of an erratic policy in a series of matters. And, as you mentioned, the issue of the Museum of Cars is perfectly scandalous.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u318	What are the five priorities? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u319	In fact, it is a Museum without any project, with immense deficiencies and difficulties of operation reported by employees. Finally, it is a project without feet or heads, open, let us say, « to the hammering». Regarding the Miró collection, the PCP has always followed this situation closely. We have asked the previous Government about this very, very insistently; already in this Parliament, we have asked again what was going on in this regard; and we will continue to follow this situation. Finally, Mr Pedro Pismão, we do not send messages to anyone here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u320	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u321	What we are doing here is affirming our political position. We don't send errands! We don't need it! We talk the same way as anyone we have to talk to, and it's over. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u322	And what are the five priorities? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u323	Mrs. Members, having completed the first point of our work on political declarations, we will move to the second item on the agenda, which is from the assessment of petition No 546 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Independent Union of Teachers and Educators ( SIPE ), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to amend Decree-Law No 132 / 2012 of 27 June in order to shape professional graduation as the sole criterion for the selection and placement of teachers at all competitive times and the urgent opening of school grouping places. For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuela Tender has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed today petition No 546 / XII ( 4. ( a ) through which 4278 citizens claim professional graduation as the sole criterion for the selection of teachers and the urgent opening of places of grouping framework. This petition, the first petitioner of which is the Independent Union of Teachers and Educators, entered the Assembly of the Republic on 22 September 2015 and went to the Education and Science Commission as a committee responsible for this matter and followed the procedures laid down in the law. I should like to be appointed rapporteur of the petition, whose final report, approved unanimously in the committee responsible, has already been referred to you, as well as to the parliamentary groups and the Minister of Education, for possible submission of legislative initiatives or for action they consider relevant. In addition to the hearing of the petitioners, who respectfully greet on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, it was also deliberate to request the opinion of several entities on the subject matter of the petition, in particular the Minister of Education and Science, other representative unions of the teaching class, the School Council, the National Association of School Leaders and the National Teachers Association, having the answers to this request and the hearing has been annexed to the final report of the petition, of it being an integral part. Having concluded the proceedings carried out by the Committee on Education and Science, this Chamber is now examining the petition in plenary meeting, as it meets all the constitutional and regulatory requirements required for this purpose. Regarding the object of the petition, the PSD Parliamentary Group is concerned at the concern expressed by the petitioners about the importance of the stability of the teaching body and the dignity and appreciation of teachers, fundamental agents for the quality of the teaching-learning processes and guarantee the excellence of the public school that, in a humanist and personalist perspective as we share, it is stated as an essential factor in the construction of identity and individual affirmation, of equity in access and acquisition of knowledge, in the realization of equal opportunities, the basis of cohesion and justice and social progress. We are aware of the importance and the multiple benefits that the stability of the frameworks entails, in the areas of personal and professional achievement, in safety and predictability and in the fight against work precariousness, but also in the added value for students and for good organization and good functioning of schools. Proof of this determination was the binding of more than 4000 teachers, who were in a precarious labour situation, carried out by the XIX Constitutional Government in a period of great budgetary constraints. But we also acted in order to ensure the improvement of the procedures and practices of selection, recruitment and mobility of teaching staff and the rationalization of the management of the needs of professionals, safeguarding the principles of autonomy of schools and decentralization of the educational system, which are, in our perspective, structural instruments of public education policies, respecting the differentiation of educational projects, the diversification of strategies and aiming to respond more effectively to the characteristics and needs of students and local social contexts in a lifelong education project.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u325	Mrs. Deputy, I'd appreciate it if you'd finished.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u326	I will finish, Mr. President. We therefore believe that Parliament and the Government should examine, humbly and seriously, the warnings left by the petitioners, in order to ensure that the procedures and practices of selection, recruitment and mobility of teaching staff do not adhere to the rigor, justice, transparency and objectivity of the criteria, factors of trust and credibility of the processes, agents and institutions. In conclusion, Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group reaffirms that the stability of the teaching body and the appreciation and dignity of the teaching profession are a priority for the PSD, a commitment we have made unequivocally in the past, in the present and in the future. [[Congrats from the PSD and the Member of the CDS-PP Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u327	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Abel Baptista.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin this intervention with a very special greeting to the more than 4200 subscribers to petition No 546 / XII ( 4. ( a) some of them are here today. First of all, I wanted to point out that this petition arose about one year and three months ago, at a time when we were also in a process of linking some teachers. For four years, the previous government has been able to link 4197 teachers to the system, to mention the exact number, i.e. almost 4200 teachers; it has also established a standard-work for the semi-automatic entry into the tables of teachers with more than five complete years and followed in regular education; it has made the equalization, in wage terms, of teachers hired to 1. the escalation of the teaching career, the entry step; and substantially reduced the number of teachers with zero hours. Of course, in some circumstances, especially in this last one I have just mentioned, so that could happen, it was not in all cases possible to hire new teachers. First, we had to fill in the vacancies that existed with the teachers who were in the system. that there had been an adaptation, according to the Statute of the Teacher Career, to what was the standard of the competition for teachers and there was a small difference between the first priority and the second priority. And, of course, as the petitioners say in the subsequent clarification that they send to the Commission, this criterion defended by the petition, the criterion of being made only by professional graduation, as the previous one, may not be perfect, but only allowed two or three questions that are important to us. First, the stability of the teaching body for the teaching of a particular class and, above all, of a certain student—for example, the academic course of four years in 1. the cycle is always done by the same teacher during these four years, respecting a principle that has to do with the autonomy of the school itself and in which the school itself could say « we need this teacher and we want this teacher». This mechanism may not be perfect, and I think we should think about improving it, with greater effectiveness, particularly for those teachers who have a legitimate expectation, given their training and their academic course, we will be sensitive to this. I think the question of professional graduation is all short, just and alone, on the basis of...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u329	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u330	Finally, Mr President, saying the following: if we conclude that vocational education should be only and only on the basis of academic training and time of service, it seems to us that, in some circumstances, it itself may also be unfair — unfair to students and unfair to some teachers. So, finding compromises here, we will certainly be able to find better solutions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u331	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u332	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, the SIPE, on the initiative to present this petition. The Left Block considers — and I think that this will be consensual — that the placement of teachers must meet the criteria, principles, transparency, justice and objectivity requirements. Better said, the placement of teachers must respond to everything that the school contract was not. So the sides on the right come here to talk and it seems that everything goes well in the realm of public school, and that's not true. Under the cover of the autonomy of the school contract, the school contract scholarship created injustices for teachers and created entropies for public school, which were tied up in a process too slow and very not transparent. It is for these reasons that the current government said that the school contract was about to end and that a process was initiated to resume the right path of the national competition ordered by professional graduation, which is at this time — and well, as it is of law — in negotiations with the unions. That is why the Block does not present a project today, it is because this is in negotiation with the unions. However, we cannot but reinforce that the national competition by graduation, being the fairest method, still has, and may have, shortcomings. In the case of the external competition, there remains a lack of linkage of teachers and an excess of precariousness in contracts and there is still no dynamic linkage mechanisms. In the case of the internal competition, for teachers already linked, there is a distortion caused by competitive priorities, which, giving priority to teachers in the pedagogical zone framework, often eternalizes the turnover among teachers in the pedagogical area framework, preventing a vacancy in the framework of ungrouped school or school grouping and impairing the internal mobility of teachers in the framework. Therefore, the pedagogical zone framework was thought of, and well, for extraordinary needs, for special needs or for non-permanent needs, and that is how it should continue. Therefore, in anticipation of this change that we will have to deal with competitive mechanisms and that is being negotiated between the Ministry and the unions, we are alerting to the need to correct the distortions that hinder the stability of teachers in public school. And this is also a good time to remember that, in this review, the geographical areas of the pedagogical framework are too extensive and that they should also be reviewed. A quality public school is not compatible with the precariousness of its teachers. And that's something the right one never wanted to understand. On this side, there is another idea, that a quality public school is born also in the rights of those working in it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u333	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Portugal welcomes the authors of the petition for professional graduation as the sole criterion of selection and urgent opening of places of grouping and all those who have subscribed to it, present in the galleries, and appreciates this initiative for its fairness. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The contest/recruitment of teachers has been stained by injustices, by atrollos and by disrespect by the teaching class. With the application of Decree-Law No 83 -A / 2014, injustice situations have been created by the former PSD Government / CDS, which have to be urgently eliminated by the pernicious effects to which many teachers have been subjected and which are associated with the disregard of professional graduation in the placement of teachers, and there are teachers who have been overcome in 900 places thanks to that Decree-Law. In fact, career teachers who wanted to change schools are prevented from competing on the first priority of internal mobility competitions because their professional graduation is not respected. On the other hand, teachers in the pedagogical area were never able to place them in the grouping framework. It must be said that when a mobility teacher leaves the place open, that place they never wanted to fill in to put the teachers in the picture. This situation served in perfection the real intentions of the PSD/CDS Government, as it avoided opening places of the grouping framework and consequently did not bind teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u335	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u336	This legislation penalized, at the same time, the teachers in the picture, by disrespecting their graduation, and teachers in the teaching area, by not opening seats in the grouping tables. However, in addition to teachers, the greatest harm is the students, because there is no stability of the teaching body, the precariousness is maintained, and by this means the quality of the working conditions of these professionals is exhausted. The PCP has always defended professional graduation and has always championed the rights of teachers, as workers. It considers that teachers are the guarantee of better functioning of the school and that only teachers with a stable situation will be able to respond to the challenges the school faces on a daily basis. in this sense, we value the ongoing negotiating process between the government and the trade unions on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u337	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u338	It also states that the CFP should always prevail over any other recruitment criterion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u339	For an intervention, Mrs Odete João has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u340	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I welcome the petitioners, the SIPE, who once again brought the debate to the Assembly of the Republic the model of placement of teachers. This matter has been defined as a priority in the policy options of the XXI Constitutional Government and is set up in its strategic programme with two essential measures: to ensure the stability of work in schools and to review the process of recruiting teachers and educators. The priorities invoked clearly contribute to the strategic objective of putting education as a privileged means of promoting social justice and equal opportunities. The Government of the Socialist Party did not wait for my fault that the PSD did here today and advanced with what was essential and that it could only lead to the option of ending the school contract, a system introduced by Decree-Law No 83-A/2014 and that was used by groups in schools that are educational priority intervention territories and by schools that have a contract of autonomy, because for the PS and for the Government of the Socialist Party the stability of the teaching body and the effectiveness and efficiency of the teacher placement process are essential for the stability of the educational system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u341	Moreover, the competition system which the previous government has implemented has proved to be obstinate, bureaucratic, ineffective and has withdrawn serenity from schools with obvious losses to students and to the quality of the public education service. The previous model of placement of teachers, as is the knowledge of all, failed. He failed, and I would say, Mr. Abel Baptista, that the binding of about 4,000 teachers left behind him a trail of fragility, intolerance and inoperation which led to many teachers having a feeling of injustice that is not reasonable. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u342	Therefore, the 4000 teachers who were linked were not in a fair and coherent manner. More: Mr Deputies said that teachers were integrated in 1. The stairwell. You were, Mr. Deputies. But what is true is that the PSD and CDS government did not publish the door that should have been published to regulate this process, leaving these teachers in an absolutely intolerable situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u343	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u344	I will finish, Mr. President. The model of teacher competition is being reviewed in a collective bargaining process with the sector entities, opting for the use of the general reserve, defined according to professional graduation, making the placement system more fair, effective and transparent. Therefore, the current legislative amendment in the Ministry of Education meets the petition we are considering. However, in order to safeguard the autonomy of schools, it is not excluded that in the future the possibility of schools being able to contract on the basis of criteria appropriate to their context. I believe, we believe that it is in collective bargaining and in dialogue that an appropriate model of teacher competition will be built, that returns to the public school the tranquility and serenity that it so needs and that it will dignify the teaching career. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-03.u345	Mrs. Members, who have come to the end of today's agenda, I inform you that tomorrow the plenary will meet again at 3 p.m. with the following agenda: in the first item, we will discuss jointly draft resolutions 73 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Towards the creation of a set of national and Community financial support, tax incentives and social security incentives for foreign producers ( PSD ), 118 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government dynamize the measures necessary for the promotion and valorisation of others ( PS ), 120 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defend and promote the production of others ( CFP ) and 127 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the protection and promotion of others as ex-libris of transmontane gastronomy ( BE ). of the second point, there is the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 110 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Promotes the establishment of an administrative committee to regulate the debts of the extinct House of Douro and the situation of its employees ( PS ), 57 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Decree-Law No 152 / 2014 of 15 October 2014 on the House of Douro ( PCP ) and 121 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Regulates the heritage of the House of Douro ( BE ). The following is the assessment of Decree-Law No 165 / 2015 of 17 August which regulates the Baldies Act, approved by Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, as amended by Law No 89 / 97 of 30 July, and Law No 72 / 2014 of 2 September[ Parliamentary assessments 9 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( BE) and 3 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. In general, the projects of lein.o 108 / XIII ( 1 ) will also be discussed. ( a ) — Suspends the application of the supported lease scheme ( Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 September ) ( PCP ) and 122 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the lease scheme supported for greater social justice — first amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December ( BE) together with draft resolutions No 114 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the results of the application of Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December at the end of its first year of validity ( PSD ), 119 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conduct an assessment of the application of the housing-supported lease scheme in coordination and collaboration with the competent entities ( CDS-PP ) and 126 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of maximum income limits supported by the effort rate to prevent exponential increases in income supported by the social districts managed by IHRU ( PS ). Finally, at the fifth point, the projects of lein. 91 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed in general. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March ( Law consolidating legislation on the rights and duties of the health services user ) ( CDS-PP ) and 95 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March ( Law consolidating the legislation on the rights and duties of the health service user ( PSD ) together with draft resolution No 125 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defends the regulation of the right to accompany pregnant women during all stages of labor ( PS ). To the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to continue in the afternoon, and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 2 minutes.]]
