ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u1	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the sitting. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Members of the first item on our agenda are the general debate on the proposal for a law No 15/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment is made to the Criminal Code and transposes Directive No 2014 / 62 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the criminal protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting and replacing Council Framework Decision 2000 / 383 / JHA. In order to present the proposal for a law, the Minister for Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Bill No. 15 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) intends to transpose into the Portuguese legal order Directive 2014 / 62 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, which concerns the criminal protection of the euro. in the logic of the Directive, there would be a need to strengthen protection through, on the one hand, the improvement of the typical description of the crime and, on the other hand, the strengthening of sanctions. We understand that the Portuguese legal order would already fulfil the essential of those who would be the objectives of the Directive and, in this perspective, the proposal we bring to Parliament is to amend the two rules of the Penal Code, Articles 265. o is 266. the, with the sole aim of increasing the typical description of the crime in which it integrates the situations of transit or acquisition of coin manufactured without legal authorization or with disrespect for the conditions under which the competent authorities may issue currency. At the same time, what is proposed with this legislative intervention is also the increase in the criminal framework for the acquisition of false currency. Basically, these are the two amendments proposed here and which the Government is bringing to Parliament to discuss.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u3	Mrs. Members, the Bureau does not register. I would like to draw attention to the fact that registrations must take place until the end of the presentation of diplomas. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mr Fernando Anastácio wrote for an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u4	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: Having entered the debate since then, it should be stressed that the need for legislative harmonisation, particularly in matters of European law, and in particular with regard to the single currency, in the specific case of the prevention and penalty schemes of their counterfeiting, is a requirement for both security reasons and for the credibility of the European institutions themselves. The legislative initiative of the Government to which Bill No. 15 / XIII relates ( 1 ) a ) aims to promote a set of amendments, even if of a residual nature, to our Criminal Code. This harmonisation aims, in accordance with Directive 2014 / 62 / EU of the European Parliament, to ensure in the domestic legal order the existence of sufficiently dissuasive legal provisions, as well as prevention instruments, as sanctions, capable of preventing counterfeiting and the authenticity of the currency, in the specific case of the euro. It is a fact that the legislative intervention necessary to ensure that our planning is fully in line with the above-mentioned European legislation will always be residual. On the other hand, as regards the criminal framework already in force in our domestic law, I stress that it is even more serious than that provided for in the European Directive and the penalties provided for in Articles 262. o is 266. that of the Penal Code, as a general rule, exceeds the penalties equalled in the Directive. However, with regard to the acquisition of false currency to be put into circulation, internal legislative harmonisation with that Directive requires that the punishment be increased from three to five years in prison when the agent acts knowing of the currency's falsity. As an innovative aspect, it should also be pointed out that the Directive also deals with metal currency and notes, which also results in the need in domestic law to criminalise certain conduct, such as placing in circulation, the acquisition of currency in accordance with legal rules and in circumstances where it is false, forged or manufactured. These objectives are expressed and materialized in the proposed amendments in accordance with the proposed law of Articles 265. o is 266. the Criminal Code. The proposal shall also be supplemented by a legislative improvement, in particular the repeal of Article 265 ( 3 ). the, thus eliminating a redundancy about the punitivity of the attempt. In short, we can say that, both at the internal level and at the European level, we are faced with another step towards strengthening the means of combating, if we want to be effective, fraud and counterfeiting, goals which, in my view, create broad consensus, and it would be strange that this consensus should not occur in this Parliament. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will therefore vote in favour of this proposal and invite the other sides to approve this measure which will be important in the protection of the currency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u5	Mrs. Members, announce that he is in the gallery for the diplomatic corps, to attend our work, a committee of the Assembly of the Republic of Mozambique, headed by the first Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic of Mozambique, António José Amélia, which is accompanied by a delegation. On behalf of Parliament, we are pleased to greet you. [[Upstairs, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the debate. Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u6	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: There is not much to say about this bill. This is in fact the transposition of a Directive on counterfeiting of coins in the case of the current currency, the euro. It is not a question of innovating our legal system in terms of criminalization, since counterfeiting of the euro is obviously already a crime defined in the Portuguese Penal Code. It is only a matter of adjusting some aspects, better conforming Portuguese legislation to the Community Directive on this matter. We must therefore not object to this, and it is true that attention must be paid to the fact that the Supreme Council of the Magistracy has a different interpretation of the rules which are proposed to repeal as regards the punitiveness of the attempt, insofar as the bill considers that there is already a general penalty and that, therefore, the punishment of the trial provided for in the special part can be waived. The Supreme Council of the Magistracy therefore has a different interpretation, so we will have to see whether you are right or not to avoid making any legislative error that could decriminalise the punishment of the attempt in certain situations. But this is a matter of specialty that will be easily settled and therefore we have no objection to the content of this bill. The only disagreement we have with this bill is the second paragraph of the preamble, where we can read that the euro has become one of the most important factors for the development of the economy, which we all know today is not true. But what is worth is that the preamble has no regulatory effectiveness, so that is not what we are going to approve. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u7	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u8	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The CDS, of course, also accompanies the proposed amendments to the Criminal Code which this bill advocates. Moreover, as has already been said here, a European directive aimed at harmonising the legislation of the euro area in relation to the protection of the single currency and, if it is true, it is still common to see attempts to falsify and even consumption and, therefore, it is important that this harmonisation be harmonised. As is read in the explanatory statement, Mrs Minister, these amendments are really surgical and the only one that is expressive is the increase in the maximum prison sentence limit from three to five years for those who acquire the fake currency to put it into circulation. There is also the question of the punitability of the attempt, referred to by Mr António Filipe. It is necessary to verify, in the field of expertise, whether it is redundancy. But taking that off, there's nothing to oppose. This elevation, which I was talking about recently, from three to five years of punishment, seems to us appropriate and consistent not only with the reality that we live in, but also with the criminal system that we have. And it is appropriate for reality because our reality is to live, also in other areas of counterfeiting, with a parallel economy — which must end — and, of course, this seriously harms the economy and, at the end of the line, people and businesses. So it seems to us that we should accept this measure. It is true that Portuguese history has a famous episode with Alves dos Reis, which is no longer present on this scale. In Portugal, counterfeiting of currency has been limited in spite of everything, but in the euro area there is a apprehension of about 900 000 notes. So this is a phenomenon that still has a scale and that is worrying. thus, muscular and dissuasive legislation seems important to us. Moreover, in order to combat counterfeiting of currency with such extensive borders as that in which the euro circulates, it is necessary to make this harmonisation. The Portuguese criminal system and our legal framework were already, it seems to us, sufficiently dissuasive but at European Union level, in fact, made sense of this amendment. Finally, Madam Minister, saying that we do not believe that these amendments decharacterize our criminal system and that the principles, whether appropriate or proportionate, are properly met. Therefore, the CDS has nothing to prevent these changes. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u9	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The aim of this initiative is to combat counterfeiting of the euro, which is of particular importance. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking, look at the second largest marketable currency in the world. The euro is used by 330 million European citizens, which adds a quarter of users outside the euro area. As a curiosity, we can say that about EUR 913 billion is in permanent circulation. in this size market, one perceives the importance that citizens' confidence in the authenticity and consistency of the euro. The confidence of citizens is the cornerstone of good functioning, particularly the economy, markets and trade. In this respect, we will also be able to highlight the successes achieved by the last government, both nationally and internationally, in the fight against fraud and tax evasion, which have made the tax system more fair, fairer and more effective. Although it is the mere transposition of a Community directive which does not deserve us legal-political censorship, it will not be said of what has been the legislative activity of this government, of the union of the left. The fact is that this government has little and no time: little legislation for manifesting inactivity and out-of-time legislation because it does not meet deadlines laid down by the directives, as is the case in the light of the Directive under consideration. Worse: this little legislative government would even say little and bad laws. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a challenge for you to go through the deliberations taken by the Council of Ministers, a challenge for you to pay attention to the deliberations that shape legislative activity. And what we found there, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? We find the head tax increase: the IMI (municipal tax on buildings) solar, taxes on sights, new taxes on property and property, gas tax, consumption tax and more taxes and taxes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This action is to feed the narrative that austerity has ended and to sustain a project and an economic model that has failed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u11	Poor PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u12	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u13	Mr President, this bill aims to standardise, among the countries of the euro area, the typification of counterfeiting crime and the criminal framework applicable to it. The Left Block accompanies this proposal, because there is no reason to disagree with it. This proposal for a law is the translation into the internal legal architecture of a Community directive and it is to highlight this characteristic of Europe to seek to regulate the most diverse aspects of our life in society. It is diligent to regulate the size of the sardine, the size of the tomato, the well-being of the laying hens, and very well, because they are issues that have their reason to be, but what Europe does not care about is the well-being of people, the working conditions in different countries. And not only does it fail to impose policies that exacerbate working conditions, which impoverish people, particularly in the countries of southern Europe. There is this concern about counterfeiting the currency, which is important, we do not disagree, but there are policies that, let us say, are counterfeits, which are imposed, which lead to poverty and an unbalanced architecture of the euro area, which is delayed to be recognised and which will have to be corrected to avoid the implosion of this same Europe. That's all I need to say. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u14	The Bureau did not record any further requests for speech by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The Minister for Justice once again has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Thank you very much for your comments. I believe that the only question that remains open is another matter of specialty, whether or not it is justified to eliminate the rule of Article 266. o, which foresees the punitivity of the attempt. I believe that there will certainly be a delay in the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy in so far as Article 23 is concerned. the, which is the general rule of the Criminal Code, provides for the punishment of the attempt for crimes corresponding to the criminal frame up to three years. What we have, in this case, are crimes in which we have increased the criminal framework for five years and, therefore, to this extent, the punitability of the attempt will already be safeguarded at the level of the general rule. With the exception of this issue, which was raised here, I think there is no other that justifies a specific response from the Government. I therefore limit myself to giving this indication, which seems to me to be appropriate, but I am convinced that, in the specialty, the honourable Members. Members will have the opportunity to make a more detailed analysis and find the solution that seems most appropriate to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u16	Well? Oh, my God! Is that your minister and don't beat your hands? If you don't fight, I beat! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u17	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next item on our agenda, which is the general debate on Bill No 27 / XIII ( 1 ). (a ) — establishes the legal regime for the conduct of tests, medical examinations and other appropriate means for the workers of the Prison Guard Corps with a view to detecting excessive consumption of alcoholic beverages, drug use and psychotropic substances and similar products. For the presentation of the said diploma, the Minister for Justice once again has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is an issue which, I think, will close another level of delicacy and will therefore begin with the historical background of this proposal. The 1993 Prison Guard Statute, also with historical background, in the case of any element of the Prison Guard Corps, presents itself to the service in apparent state of alcohol poisoning or narcotics, that the director of the establishment or his substitute could order the immediate medical observation of this element, in order to subject him to the necessary tests. In this case, there was also provision for a maximum degree of alcoholism in relation to the functional exercise of these agents. This rule, which consists of a decree-law, has finally been transposed into the diploma that is currently in force, which is the Statute of the Prison Guard, recently approved in 2014, as you know, and provides that prison guards, in so far as they have specific functions of maintaining order within the institutions, should or may be subject to tests for the control of alcohol consumption or ingestion of narcotic or psychotropic substances. The Government understood, on the one hand, that this practice needed to be maintained. Why? Because, in a context as sensitive as the prison environment, the physical and psychic dependence on alcohol or narcotics can, on the one hand, enhance risks in terms of work losses, risks to the health of the prison guards themselves, and then, of course, the working conditions of agents under the effect of alcohol or other psychotropic substances will necessarily be affected, this in addition to the overall image of the elements of the Prison Guard, which it is important to preserve. But the Government also understood that the legislation that existed and, above all, that the circumstances of these rules contained a decree-law justified that, at the level of the regulation—which was supposed to be done—if it would return to its origin and, in the matter of a matter in which fundamental rights are concerned, the Government intended to draw up a bill and bring it to Parliament for approval. in essence, what is intended to be approved here today, i.e. what comes about, corresponds to the practice that already existed in the prison order, practice that was based on government diplomas that allowed these tests to be carried out. We have suspended the testing and made it dependent on the approval, or not, by Parliament, of this legislation that we bring here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u19	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Minister, alcoholism will surely be an effective problem in the Prison Guard Corps, but it was the most pressing and most serious of the problems of the Prison Guard and we would understand the moment, the time of this bill. The truth is, it's not like that. There are pressing problems, which I know that the Minister knows well, such as the shortage of prison guards, blocked careers, work scales with overburdened effort, the accountability of prison guards for tasks for which they do not have training or have to have, the distribution of drugs in prisons where this situation is degraded, which has already been recognized, the overcrowding of prisons and the impact that this has on the performance of the functions of prison guards. All this, Mrs. Minister, of course, determines that there is a great urgency to act with a strategic sense, that there is a great urgency to act with responsibility in the prison system and also in the Prison Guard Corps. That is why, Mrs Minister, that the first legislative intervention in this area is of a disciplinary nature is a sense of opportunity that seems very questionable to us and that is at risk of demotivating rather than estimating, runs the risk of launching suspicious rather than mobilizing, is at risk of sanctioning behaviors and not taking care of the causes, is at risk of imposing penalties or sanctions, but does not provide for psychosocial follow-up of people affected by dependency. More than anything, Mrs Minister, with all honesty, it seems to us to be a proposal that regulates performance situations that can only be exceptional, without worrying about the general working conditions of these professionals. The technical content of this proposal can and should be greatly improved in the field of expertise, but, more than anything else, the time of its presentation deserves the greatest of the reservations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u21	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u22	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : Today we receive the Government's bill, which proposes to us the new legal regime for carrying out tests, medical examinations and other appropriate means to the workers of the Prison Guard Corps who are in service, tests related to the detection of excessive consumption of alcohol, drugs, psychotropic substances or other similar products. However, the first note that needs to be made, and the Minister, in fact, underlined it, is that what has been proposed in the Rules of Procedure since 1993 is being incorporated into the law. That is why the amendment to Article 23 is made. the Statute of the Prison Guard Corps. However, with this, the Government immediately and well recognizes that this matter is concerned with matters relating to rights, freedoms and guarantees and, as such, gives it adequate constitutional clothing. I am referring to the words contained in the explanatory note to this proposal, according to which the Government wishes to follow, scrupulously, — and in the words of the Government — the regime governed by the Basic Law. A government that follows the Constitution and that is concerned about following the Constitution, we agree, is something that we have not been used to in recent years, so I am pleased to underline it. With regard to the substance, to the objective content of the diploma, we all recognize, regardless of whether or not we are considering the opportunity of the diploma, that the consumption of this kind of substance is potentiating of labour deficiency, of risks to the health of its own and a failure to comply with the functional duties. And more: it is highly harmful to the image of the guards of the Prison Guard Corps and, consequently, of the state. It is good to know that a small minority cannot undermine the professional dignity of the overwhelming majority. And we're talking about a universe of about 4,000 prison guards. On the other hand, about a recent news that in a year and a half 28 prison guards were arrested for criminal offences, and obviously not directly related to the consumption of these substances, the fact is that the National Union of the Prison Guard Corps itself — which, moreover, I greet in the sense of having often expressed the desire to dignify the career and its professionals — has given as a justification for this crime the fact that the guards often have personal conversations in the corridors, the prisoners listen to them and know how they approach them and please them. It is clear, however, that the consumption of these substances leads to disinhibition and therefore this proposal enshrines a form of legitimately hindering this disinhibition.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u23	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u24	I conclude, Mr. President. Mr President, I conclude by saying that the merit of the proposal is therefore unquestionable and we are convinced that with its approval it will contribute to a better environment in prisons through a more appropriate professional performance, the strengthening of the professional dignity of the Prison Guard Corps. And every time we strengthen the dignity of State servants, it is the State that comes out strengthened in its dignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u25	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u26	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: I must say that the presentation of this bill causes us some discomfort, precisely because of the issue already mentioned here, that is, because we know that there are very pressing issues to be resolved within the prison system, including the regulation of fundamental aspects of the Statute of the Prison Guard Corps, and because we find that the first legislative initiative presented is that which we are discussing and that it is essentially punitive. Not that it is not justified to legislate on this matter. Clearly, the matter, given its sensitivity and the fact that it is about rights, freedoms and guarantees, must be the subject of a legislative act — this for us is unquestionable, not a matter which can be regulated by mere administrative regulation and I repeat, a legislative act. However, it seems to us that there is a wrong signal for the priority given to this matter and that it can raise a certain public anathema in relation to the elements of the Prison Guard Corps. They will ask the citizens: is this, in fact, the most pressing issue? Is this the most important issue to be resolved within the prison system? Of course it's not! Obviously, there must be adequate control in all professional sectors, particularly in those who perform functions of greater melindre and complexity, with regard to the consumption of alcoholic beverages and narcotic substances, and this question arises with regard to the Prison Guard Corps as well as the elements of the security forces and services, as is obvious. Therefore, these mechanisms should effectively be regulated in an appropriate way and not in a way that implies that this is a punitive, priority and unquestionably necessary measure, until the matter was in fact regulated by regulation, although it underlines that this is not the appropriate way to do so, and therefore the legislative act obviously justified. There are two aspects I would like to highlight. Firstly, a punitive measure is adopted, forgetting that in this area there is a preventive aspect that cannot be forgotten, and we see nothing in this regard and therefore this proposal for a law is of a punitive nature. Obviously, there are aspects that will have to be seen and we recognize that the bill has already been cleared of aspects that have emerged from a preliminary draft for which the National Data Protection Commission has raised the greatest reservations when it comes to the creation of a positive test database.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u27	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u28	I'm done now, Mr. President. All right, the Government has withdrawn this part and, therefore, there is an improvement here between the initial text and the proposal that is presented to us, but this proposal does not cease to cause us great discomfort at the time it is presented, knowing that there are much more priority subjects that lack legislative acts in relation to the prison system. This is indeed the objection we have to this proposal, not so much to its content and its need, but to the opportunity and priority that has been given to it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u29	Mr José Silvano has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u30	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members: I would like to start with the question of the opportunity and the causes that have been discussed here. Regardless of the causes that led to the presentation of this proposal, and which here are expressed, of absenteeism, of the contribution to productivity, of the empowerment or possible empowerment of conflicts in prison guards, especially in the specific environment in which they are inserted, I have to say that the main cause, in our understanding, was that sad episode that happened at the Sintra Prison Establishment and that, for us, it would have been one of the worst episodes of Portuguese prisons, which did not create confidence in the Portuguese prison system. Now, Mrs. Minister, on 13 July, when she was heard on 1st. the Commission, said it was taking measures for a security strategy in prisons and also announced that a diploma was being prepared to regulate the tests of alcohol and psychotropic substances that would later be treated by the government. We therefore believe that this is what gave rise to this document and to this bill. This is to say that the causes here are important, but for us, the main cause of opportunity was what happened in this episode of Sintra Prison Establishment. I would therefore like to say to you, and we follow this legislation, the principles and the meaning of this bill and we will vote in favour at the right time, that we believe that some improvements must be made at the Commission level, in particular the direction given to control by the immediate hierarchic superior in the organic units, which can raise some issues not by coordination but by monitoring the tests. Moreover, the National Data Protection Commission itself raises this question, namely whether in these specific cases they should not be qualified professionals, specifically prepared to do so, and not with the presence of all or with the coordination of the superior hierarchical who is immediately following in the hierarchy. Within the Commission, in the specialty, it is certain that these issues will be examined and can be improved and what is and was important here was to respond to problems and cases which, if they happen or are not avoided, may call into question security in Portuguese prisons. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u31	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u32	Mr. President, thank you very much. I would like to congratulate the Minister and the Secretary of State and again to show the agreement in principle with this regulation, but to register with regret, Mr Minister, what has already been said to satiety, i.e. that the fact that this is the first moment in which we speak in this Chamber of the Prison Guard Corps thus leaves us a little bit sad. Article 23 is true. the Statute, approved about three years ago, expressly provides, and well, that the employees of the Prison Guard Corps in service can be subjected to this type of testing, and can and should be, for obvious reasons. I may even recall what Article 3 says. the report that the Prison Guard Corps is composed of workers with public security functions, armed and uniformed, who have the mission to guarantee the security and tranquility of the prison community, maintaining order and security in the prison system, protecting the life and integrity of citizens in compliance with sentences and measures privatising freedom and thus ensuring compliance with the laws and judicial decisions. Therefore, in service, a prison guard is an officer of authority and, thus, this regulation is more consistent with the constitutional dictates, no doubt. If it is true that this justifies, in itself, this initiative and that these tests are carried out, let us also say, in the interests of truth, that there are some issues here that, in the field of expertise, we should see calmly. But that is not exactly what we are concerned about, Mrs Minister; what we are concerned about are other issues, some of which have already been addressed by other Members. Members in this House, and that I would like to leave it and see concrete answers. I highlight, then, three points: the first one has to do with the medicine at work. How will work medicine follow this issue? It has recently been said that this is a problem that must be seen much more from a preventive and curative point of view than from a reactive point of view, which is what we are now doing. It was important to realize, Mrs Minister, how we will, from a preventive and curative point of view, deal with this matter. It is that we have not seen or heard Mr. Minister, never a word on this matter, and it was important that we hear her on that. Then I would like to ask you, Mrs Minister, on a second point: how is this subject being accompanied by your Minister of Health? Is this question being articulated? What are you planning to do, Minister? Third and last point, Mrs Minister: the news and voices that come to us from the chains are very worrying, not only because of overcrowding, not only because of the state of degradation, not only because of the horrendous shortage of prison guards, that the successive protection of competitions and the number of retirements have increased every day, not only because of any of these isolated factors, but because of all this. In fact, I would like to quote a sentence from the Ombudsman which I find absolutely pressing in this matter and which says « only with great wit and dedication can they perform the various functions of a prison guard». Mrs. Minister hasn't talked much about this, but the truth is...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u33	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u34	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. I apologize and thank you for your kindness. This is a matter that does not involve technological gadgets, as this government so much likes to propagate—and we have seen little of the result of these technological gadgets—I ask you, Mrs Minister, what is the state of the competition for the body of prison guards. Can we expect an effective increase in prison guards so that they can stop doing free work, which they do — and we know they do — and perform their duties with dignity? When are the works in the jails? Or are you going to solve all of this, Minister, just by promoting the exchange of sentences deprived of liberty for non-custodial penalties? in a word, Mrs. Minister, and to conclude, Mr. President, when can we give hope to the exhausted and discouraged Corps of the Prison Guard, which is also affected by the suicides of the security forces, which we have already discussed in this Chamber, to which this alcohol issue is not alien, having this question prevents a fundamental importance? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u35	You have the floor, if you will, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to point out something before this House : the logic with which the Ministry of Justice intervenes here and the logic of this diploma is that of dignity of the Prison Guard Corps. It is important that we do not forget that, at present, prison guards can be temporarily removed from their duties by the law in force only on the assumption that they may eventually be affected in their working capacity for health reasons in which the problems presented in the proposal are involved. When this matter is brought, the opportunity can be discussed, but I would say that this is an opportunity that is linked to the need to cease a model of intervention which, from our point of view, is a model that is limited to respect for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of this Body and the perspective we have is to break with this model, bringing Parliament and allowing Parliament to pronounce itself on another way to deal with these issues, which, as far as I can understand, are consensual. But it is indisputable that the Ministry of Justice also has other concerns and I think that you are. Members know: with regard to prison guards, a contest was opened for 400 guards; a competition was opened for the progression of 28 commissioners; the protocol training centre has been restructured and is working in different ways to train prison guards; what was said here concerning short sentences is also being worked and has to do with the prison population; we are working in partnership with the Ministry of Health with regard to the question of physical and mental health of prison guards and prisoners. So, there's a whole program...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u37	Mrs. Minister, you've reached your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u39	It does not mean that you cannot conclude your reasoning, Minister. If you wish...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u40	Mr President, I have scrupulously respected your words and part of the assumption that you should finish. So I would just like to say that a programme is under way that covers all the areas that have been considered here and that obviously would not be the time to discuss, but that I can come to Parliament at 1. the Commission, or here to the plenary, if they understand it, speak of what is being done in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u41	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this item on our agenda is concluded. The third point relates to the general assessment of draft laws/ ( 1 ). ( a ) — Review of Law No 28 / 98 of 26 June approving the legal arrangements for the employment contract of the sports practitioner and the sport training contract ( PSD ) and 297 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the General Law on Sports Work and Sport Training ( PS ). To present the PSD diploma, Mr. Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legal regime of the employment contract of the sports practitioner and the sport training contract has been in force since 1998. And it is too obvious — that is the feeling that the whole sports movement feels — that it is necessary to review it. Our bill has a history: feeling this need, in 2015, the government then decided to create a working group, coordinated by Prof. Dr. Leal Amado, PhD in Sport Law by the University of Coimbra, and still composed by Dr. João Correia, former member of some socialist governments, by the President of the Trade Union of Professional Football Players, Dr. Evangelista, by a representative of the Portuguese Federation of Football (FPF ) and a representative of the Portuguese Professional Football League (LPFP ), to give body and respond to this need for change, formalizing, concluding and presenting a solution in this sense. To this end, he worked with the Olympic Committee, the Confederation of Sport of Portugal, the Confederation of Trainees of Portugal, the National Association of Football Agents and the Association of Non-Professional Football Players. This proposal was published in the summer of 2015 on the website of the IPDJ ( Portuguese Institute for Sport and Youth ) and consisted of the government's transition file that ended functions in November for the current government. Over the past few months, and with no initiative, we believe it was important for the Assembly of the Republic to debate, to pronounce and help restore this reform that is necessary. We maintain in this draft law the matrix of the original diploma, in which we see many virtues, as well as this college of experts who discussed this matter. at this stage of the debate, I would like to leave some of the news that our bill incorporates. Of course, the reduction of the maximum limit of the employment contract of the sports practitioner, which goes from eight to five years and, in the case of minor athletes, to three years. There is also a change in the age at which young people can conclude the sport training contract, which goes from 18 years to 19 years, which is easy to understand. In 1998 the juniors went until they were 18, and today we all heard about the sub-19 competitions. This is therefore an appropriateness to today's day. Also for the first time, standards arise to regulate what is commonly known as the « termination clause », which was completely omitted in 1998 until it did not exist at that time. There is also a standard on the role of representation and intermediation that binds the entrepreneur to the practitioner, seeking to clarify his legal nature, duration, forms of termination and the consequences of the same cessation. In other words, it is in this area, as in the rest of the labour market, and what has not changed since 1998 until 2016? — to make an update as well. We sincerely hope that it will be possible to find in this House the consensus to value the work of these experts—the diploma is of its own strength—and enrich it, in committee, if that is the understanding of the majority, so that we can, once and for all, update this regime and adapt it to the needs of today's times. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u43	To present the PS authorship bill, Mr.António Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 1998, and following the Bosman judgment, Law No. 28 / 98, which came to establish the legal regime of the work contract of the sports practitioner, the sport training contract and the regulation of the exercise of the activity of the sports entrepreneur, was adopted. Having returned almost two decades of its approval, it is time to revisit its content and conform it to evolution, innovating where there is to evolve, adapt, and, without any prejudice, maintain the solid legislative building in force. We followed the same philosophy that determined the approval of the current regime that, before a change of paradigms, came to sign new solutions in a comprehensive and participated way. We recognize the work done by the working group, created by the XIX Government and composed of representatives of the sports movement, notably the Portuguese Football Federation, the Portuguese Professional Football League and the Trade Union of Professional Football Players ( SJPF ), the Government and the academic environment. the work of this group, qualified but not representative, resulted in a basic proposal that, in our view, is an important contribution and starting point for this discussion, with the ultimate objective of giving Portuguese sport a law of sports work and sports training that meets its reality. The Socialist Party, committed to this objective, is available to find the points of consensus, based on inter-party dialogue and with the agents of the sector. We stress the important role that collective regulatory instruments, including the collective convention, have to play in regulating these matters, seeking, where possible, the development of a more favourable framework for sports practitioners resulting from trade unions and employers. We believe it is important to review the duration limits of these contracts and the experimental period of the sports contract. in respect of remuneration and its payment, specific deadlines are laid down for the date of maturity and the mode of payment ( permissible duty, e.g. check, debit in bank account or bank transfer ). Paying attention to the importance of sport ethics, the need for respect for the rules of sport ethics in the development of sport activity in the context of the parties' rights, duties and guarantees is intensified. As regards the exercise of disciplinary power, the suspension of work with loss of remuneration sees its deadlines reduced. The sport training contract is adjusted to the current context of compulsory education, ensuring the compatibility between the right to education and sport, through the introduction of formal and functional requirements at contractual level. As has already been stated, this compatibility is all the more important as we all know it is a national plan to combat school failure. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Finally, we want the dematerialization of procedures in order to ensure efficiency, accessibility and unbureauty of the processes. It is important that this be so, that this new law be a new law, for new times. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u45	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the initiatives of the Parliamentary Groups of the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party in order to modernize the labour system of professional sport. Both initiatives make important contributions. I will not, because of the short time I have on all of them, but we cannot fail to draw a distinction on some crucial points, to which the Left Block pays special attention. In particular, and first of all, the guarantee of a scheme in favour of sports practitioners that the Socialist Party's bill provides for, i.e., greater guarantees of hiring and collective regulation of work and the employer's obligation to respect the fulfilment of compulsory education by minor sportsmen. These are two points that we consider necessary for any updating of the labour regime and that lead us, in this way, to be closer to the Socialist Party bill than to the Social Democratic Party bill. at a time when, especially because we live not only a financial but also a social crisis, work precariousness spread to several professional sectors, we know that sport is no exception. And when we talk in sports, we can quickly fall into the mistake of just imagining the millionaire football contracts that we see every weekend on television. It's just that sports contracts go a lot beyond football and a lot beyond what we see every weekend. It is therefore important, in our view, that a modern and democratic professional sports system can only defend the collective bargaining and the rights of these professionals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u47	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject we are discussing here, at the initiative of the PSD and which also has a PS bill, is relevant because the legal regime in question has been in force since 1998 with very little expressive, very punctual changes. It is also relevant in the case of the PSD bill to have as a basis an extended work done with a number of relevant sports sector entities, a reflection still made in the previous legislation and promoted by the previous Government. This means that the draft law of the Social Democratic Party presented here already has many contributions from the sector and from both sides, on the side of practitioners and on the side of entities that either have the responsibility to maintain work relations with these practitioners or even protect sports practice in each sector. The Socialist Party's contribution, therefore, is naturally positive. And it is also because it deals with other areas that are relevant areas, namely, as it has been said, the ethical issues that, obviously, in addition, can enrich this law. It has also been said, and it is very important, that work relations in the sports field go a long way beyond what is normally discussed, that is, the big contracts. Obviously, sports reality is a pyramidal reality: for each top athlete, for each one of these great contracts, for each Olympic athlete, there are a number of other athletes who are often subject to a reality of precariousness and informality that is completely disrespectful of the dignity of their sport practice and their contribution so that there may then be something that the whole country recognizes, but that does not represent most of the reality of sports in Portugal. in this sense, we understand that, for the time that has passed since the adoption of the law that is in force, for the work that has been carried out however by all entities and for the contributions that can still be added to the speciality in hearings that we will certainly promote in committee, this is a legislative process that has everything to achieve an extended consensus, to be a profound reform and to catch the support of all those who daily realize these relations. in this sense, the CDS is associated with this process with the commitment of those who want to contribute also so that this is a law in which we can all review ourselves and that can be improved with the work that we will do in the field of specialty. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u49	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's initiatives bring back to the reflection an important matter and which concerns, essentially, the regulation of the labour relations of professional sportsmen—and this is a point that we should bear in mind throughout the entire discussion held in plenary or even in the field of speciality—the professional athletes whose overwhelming majority has a very different reality from the wages of thousands of euros which dominate largely, particularly in football, the discussion that is done exactly on these professionals. We understand that this should be saved so that the diploma that can result from both the proposals that the PSD and PS bring here, as well as from other proposals that can be presented in the specialty, is able to respond to the reality of the different sports modes, not focusing on a single reality. however, we cannot fail to point out a few points that we believe should be the subject of further reflection, such as the subject of sports entrepreneurs or even the training contract, the latter in particular with regard to the school course of the sports practitioner and the normal period of training. We must also point to concerns that we have with regard to the proposal for payment of remuneration for the months of June and July, distributed by the remaining months of the year for a maximum of 10 months, as well as the possibility of it happening with the holiday allowance and the Christmas allowance. And we also have concerns about compensation to the sports practitioner in the case of contract expiry. On this subject, we believe that solutions should be found that take account of the specificity of this area, but that do not leave the professional sportsman unprotected. We also understand that this discussion gives us the opportunity to deepen another discussion on the rights of the sports practitioner and their social protection, in particular as regards maternity and paternity rights or access to various social benefits, such as unemployment benefit. We also understand that this is the opportune time for us to hear clubs, federations, associations or organizations representing sports practitioners and other entities that can bring the knowledge they have of reality or the concerns they feel. We have heard the speeches made by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the hearings that have been made. We know that the PSD initiative has been in public discussion, but we do not think that this does not preclude a broad discussion on these matters and that it can be collected as much contributions as possible so that the diploma can in fact correspond as much as possible to the reality that exists. And, of course, the CFP is available to work and contribute to improve the proposals here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u51	Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor for a final intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin this last speech by saying that this debate was an excellent starting point for us to be able to build something that updates and brings to today a diploma that is important, a regulation that is very important and that is clearly out of date. I therefore believe that the project that we are bringing forward, and which will still be voted on today, has this particularity, to be a true sector consultation. In other words, there was care to involve the maximum number of partners, professionals and non-professionals, and therefore I think we will be able to extend this debate further in the field of expertise, to hear and hear again and close the topic. It is important that we close the subject so that we will not be 18 more years old waiting for this diploma to be revised. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u53	Completed the assessment of lein projects 168 and 297 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), the PSD and PS, respectively, we proceed to the general debate of Bill No 253 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Exempt from VAT the donation of mobile goods to museums of the Portuguese Network of Museums ( PS ). To present the diploma, you have the floor of Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are several ways of politically and financially valuing culture. Choose it as a priority area in political discourse has, of course, an undeniable symbolic weight, which ultimately has an impact on the construction of a social model. Provide it with means of institutional respectability and give it the capacity for political action are concrete signs of this appreciation. This is what happened to this government. There are also several different ways of intervening in the public budget of culture, in the State budget, as is evident, but in addition to it, in the creation of mechanisms that contribute to the dynamics of cultural institutions and the creation of a whole set of regulatory exceptions, particularly at the fiscal level, which, by positively discriminating the cultural sector, identify it as a politically priority area for the Government. This has been the case with the extension to cultural associations of the provision of 5 % of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) by individual determination of the citizens, to which the right was opposed — let us remember! So it was with the possibility of tax credits for foreign cinema productions that occur in our country, unfortunately also against the will of the right. And there are, moreover, many other possibilities, some of which we will also present in the State Budget for 2017. But for now, the bill we bring here today, to appreciate this House, has solved some pending situations in the Portuguese museums and will certainly serve as an incentive for more donations to our museums in the future. It is a matter of exempting from VAT (value added tax) the donation of mobile goods to museums of the Portuguese Network of Museums. The Portuguese Network of Museums, like Mr. Members will certainly know, it consists of 146 museums of various types (public, private, municipal foundations, etc. ) it is a network that has a broad and comprehensive concept, whose diversity of collections ranges from living species botanical, zoological, testimonies of materialization of ideas, virtual realities, landscape heritage, etc. And this diversity includes identity activities of regions, which narrate technological developments, including the National Railway Museum, the Electric Car Museum, the Transport and Communications Museum, the Air Museum and several interpretative centers that cross the human environment, nature and intervention. Now, the most important part of the collections of these museums is the result of offers and donations. And there is no doubt that the incentive to these offers should be an obligation of the Portuguese State. It happens that part of these offers are taxed by VAT and our law has not yet found a solution for these taxes. This bill is precisely covering this failure and solving this problem. We therefore hope that this time the right vote with us will vote in favour of culture and we will achieve unanimous approval. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u55	Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, we welcome the Socialist Party's initiative to seek exemption from VAT from donations of mobile goods to museums of the Portuguese Network of Museums. However, we do not fail to note that this concern, which is laudable and legitimate, clearly contrasts with that which was a very disappointing bet in the State budget for 2016, in which the Government cut the budget for the sector by EUR 3 million, this after years we heard the language that the previous government had invested in just being in a state secretary. Well, they promote culture to the Ministry and the first thing they do is cut their budget by 3 million euros! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u57	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u58	It is also curious that the same Socialist Party is now looking for, with this bill—and well! — to give this VAT benefit be the same Socialist Party that, two days ago, through the Minister of Finance, announced a great increase in indirect taxes for the coming year, perhaps the VAT itself which now intends to exempt. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u59	Don't you like it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u60	It should also be recalled that if there is an area where the government's disorientation and irresponsibility is clearly the tax area, with the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Communist Party tearing up such important values, such as trust, stability and predictability. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u61	There are several examples, since the reform of the IRC (tax on the income of collectives), signed by the Socialist Party and meanwhile reversed, or the announced mexidity on the steps of the IRS, which will severely penalise the middle class, or the increase in the tax on fuels, which penalises the competitiveness of Portuguese companies, or the worsening of the IMI, as a result of the landscape or solar exposure,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u62	Do you know who introduced the solar exposure coefficient? It was the gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u63	... or, for example, the rise of the stamp tax, or the brutal increase in excise duties. All these increases occur in a new time, when we supposedly turned the page of austerity. Well, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, the only page they have seen was credibility, confidence and growth. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u64	But it is true that we will not stay here; as you do not know what you will have to invent, you will have to invent, and you are already talking about a new tax for next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u65	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u66	New taxes, imagine! The parties that previously accused the former majority of tax evasion are now the same parties that increase taxes, which create new taxes under supposed tax justice. We will look forward to the new increases, the new taxes, the right and the conviction that this is the result of the failure of government policies. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u67	These taxes are costing you to listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u68	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is looking forward to new entries. I believe that, given this warning, we can move on to the next point in our agenda. [[Pause.]] I was informed by Mr. Secretary that Mrs. Anne Mesquita has now been registered. It's good that the ladies. Members signed up at the appropriate time. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative we are currently debating aims to promote the enrichment of the collections and collections of museums integrated in the Portuguese Network of Museums, recognizing the need to enhance this network so diverse and multifaceted. The PCP accompanies this concern and the need to value the Portuguese Network of Museums, taking into account its important role in our country's cultural life and also as a safeguard of identity and national sovereignty. however, any initiative in this chapter must not forget the fundamental reality that must also be brought to the debate. The truth is that there is a greater problem for which solutions need to be found and which is linked to the fact that most Portuguese museums correspond to successively impoverished institutions, without resources to renew exhibitions or strengthen their technical bodies, often failing even to promote campaigns to disseminate and promote these institutions. And the situation is not only worse because the Portuguese museums have very busy workers, who "wear the shirt" of the public service that they provide to the people and to the scientific progress of the country. It is necessary to rethink the process of administrative centralism that has occurred over the years, with regard to museums, but also and above all to reduce budgetary resources that has affected these institutions of such order that the overwhelming majority is limited to the satisfaction of permanent basic needs and arms with a huge inability for programming, especially to think about acquisitions and valorization of collections and collections. Being strictly dependent on donations cannot be the solution. The development of public policies conducive to the development of culture and to the strengthening of museums is forced, focusing them strategically on collections and communities, in an approach to the provision of basic public service for the progress of the country. The CFP therefore follows this initiative. However, it cannot fail to point out the urgent need to deepen the debate around the general situation of the Portuguese museums, particularly the national museums, but not only, and to combat the slow agony that these institutions, precious to all of us and that deserve to be cared for, have lived and lived more intensely during the last government, PSD / CDS. Here we are to make this discussion for the Portuguese museums and culture. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u70	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would like to welcome, from the outset, the schedule of this initiative and to congratulate ourselves on the fact that it has been scheduled for today, because with the ongoing negotiations between the members of the management on indirect taxes, which, after all, are also direct, on mobile heritage and immovable heritage, this initiative was seriously at risk of being annihilated, which would be truly a pity. This is because, in fact, the Portuguese Network of Museums is an important instrument for the realization and execution of a national museum policy and certainly promotes the valorization of each museum that integrates the network. The accreditation and the consequent integration into the Portuguese Network of Museums is, however, a voluntary process and results from the verification of the fulfilment of all the museological functions set out in the Portuguese Museums Framework Law. As regards the explanatory statement, what the PS here proposes, with its legislative initiative, is a surgical amendment to the VAT Code, in order to exempt from this tax donations from real estate to entities integrated into the Portuguese Museum Network and intended to integrate their collections. The CDS believes that it is crucial for a permanent action in the heritage and museum domain that takes into account not only its relevance as an element for the defence and affirmation of the national entity, but also its potential in economic and social development for our projection in the world. On the other hand, in strict compliance with the fundamental right of all to cultural exploitation, it is up to the State, in collaboration, obviously with all cultural agents, to promote the safeguarding and valuing of cultural heritage. Now, this initiative is presented as a surgical amendment, and surgical has indeed been the action of the Government in this area of culture. Yes, sir. Members, what we have seen by the Government on cultural issues is just as surgical interventions, no strategy is seen, such as the implementation of concrete measures or the existence of a true cultural policy by the PS Government, and this is a well-known and undeniable fact. A year ago, during the election campaign, the PS and the other left-wing parties spoke of culture as a priority and an essential mission. These parties said that 1% of the State budget would have to be allocated to culture; they said there was a dramatic subordination in culture. Shortly thereafter, with the presentation of the State Budget for 2016, it was realized that the electoral promises would remain in the role and we saw the budget for culture decrease, and unfortunately it was not a surgical decrease, it was less than EUR 3 million in the budget for culture, of which less than EUR 2 million for artistic creation, with the consequent increase in office spending. In addition, we are faced every day with news and information, for example on consecutive delays in the allocation of necessary support to the arts. And what we see on the part of the government and the parties that support it is a huge silence. Mrs. Members, apart from this legislative initiative, there are many other situations that also need protection, particularly where tax benefits are concerned. The discussion of the State Budget for 2017 is near and the CDS will contribute to the introduction of relevant and comprehensive changes in culture, and not only surgical changes, which leave out other situations that also deserve protection. So, in the state budget proposal...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u72	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u73	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, in the proposal for a State Budget, we hope that the Government, the PS, the PCP and the Block will not continue to put into the drawer all the hymns and slogans that roared in relation to culture, because we must, by 2017, have the implementation of concrete, strategic measures and policies for the area of culture, for whose discussion the CDS says, from now on! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u74	Mr Jorge Campos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, I will focus on the subject of the debate in this circumstance, which is that of the draft law advanced by the Socialist Party, because being a surgical project does not cease to be relevant, which we will follow. It is obvious that the Left Block values the Portuguese Network of Museums, which integrates 146 museums, as it has been said, whose objectives, in generic terms, are the valorization and qualification of our museumology. Its immense diversity, also mentioned above, is a powerful aid for memory preservation, which, in turn, is indispensable to national cohesion and identity. These museums are under the reach of the Ministry of Culture, of authorities, foundations and privates, contemplating multiple forms of interaction and different management models. As the Socialist Party project rightly says — and I continue to quote it — the collections, collections and museum assets are very diverse, in cases of great artistic and heritage value, in others of invaluable symbolic value, often at risk of degradation or disappearance. As the objective of this Socialist Party legislative initiative is clear and reasonable, there is no objection to the Left Block. In fact, exempting from VAT the donation of mobile goods to museums can be a stimulus to offers and donations, reinforcing the relationship between civil society and culture. however — and here I am going to meet the Member of the CDS Teresa Caeiro — I cannot, on behalf of the quality of the debate, fail to point out that no mechanism of tax incentives is capable of replacing or structuring public cultural policies. We cannot continue to talk about the Portuguese Network of Museums without knowing exactly what state it is in, so that it will provide the means necessary to carry out its mission. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is evidence that public services of culture have been progressively degraded. And I would like to stress one thing here: there has been a trend, and there has already been a trend over the previous government, in particular to hand over to the private what is the matter of public intervention. And I refer to this matter, because today, for example, begins the new programming season of the Teatro Rivoli, in the Port, municipal theater, and we know what it was and the results that the Theatre was given and delivered to the filmmaker Filipe La Feria for four years. We know the state in which it remained and we know the disastrous results for culture, in the city, which resulted from that.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u76	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u77	I shall conclude, Mr President. The time we're living today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, it is time to reverse the situation that has so far been, to seek new solutions. We reiterate our willingness to, in partnership with all political parties, find solutions for cultural policies. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Gabriela Canavilhas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u78	For a second intervention, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very quickly, I will not be surprised, because something else would not be expected, because the PSD has managed to use 3 minutes without speaking in culture. He spoke only of his political disappointments and was unable to speak of culture. Do you know why, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa? Because in the government he managed to illegally export, and with the approval of his government, a work by Crivelli, who put out of the country, and managed to export, against the law and with the approval of the Ministry of Finance, 85 works by Miró. That is what your government has done, according to the rules it defends for culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u80	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u81	With regard to the lack of priority which Mrs Teresa Caeiro mentioned here, priority to culture is in fact to find cultural exceptions, regulatory exceptions and to identify it as a priority area. This is what we are doing: except culture, providing it with differentiated rules from those that are applied to other areas. This is in fact identifying culture as a priority area of this government. I should also like to remind the Member of the CFP that, in spite of the restrictions, in particular of human resources, this Minister of Culture, in the few months in which he is in office, has already managed to hire 111 security for museums. Nevertheless, it is an effort that shows that culture, for this government, is not a beauty, as it was for the governments on the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u82	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the debate, in general, of Bill No 253 / XIII ( 1. ( a). We will move on to the next point of our agenda, that of the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein. 162 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — The third amendment is made to the Baldios Act, approved by Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, ensuring its use to local communities which historically and according to customs are entitled to it ( BE), 282 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishs the bases for the organisation, management and operation of baldiums ( PS ), 276 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revok Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, returning the buckets to the peoples ( PCP ) and 295 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revocation of the Baldies Act, Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September ( The Greens ). Mr Matias, first of all, has the floor to present his initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The baldiums are lands of community management and use, with their own constitutional status, comprising a multi-sectoral reality of spaces traditionally enjoyed by local communities, which from them withdraw their usefulness. With this legislative initiative, the Left Block aims to defend and clarify the legislative aspects in which life will require it. I am also taking advantage of the legislative initiatives that are coming in the same direction, presented here by PCP, PS and the Greens Ecological Party. from here and from all will certainly come out a deliberation that will reverse the unfortunate decisions of the previous majority and will, in full, return the buckets to the populations. over the centuries, the baldiums have always been the object of greed of the most powerful, being many episodes of appropriation, whether consumed or not, of these goods of community property. All these episodes faced the popular challenge, leading to revolts, some of which close, in the period of fascism, and so well reported by Aquilino Ribeiro. The Community means of production, which are mainly those made up of baldiums, are integrated into the cooperative and social sector of the means of production as defined in Article 82. the Constitution, whose specificity and consequent legal distinction is guaranteed by it. in the previous Legislation, the majority PSD / CDS tried to get Law No. 72 / 2014 approved, in order to try to gradually destroy this form of property, introducing elements that tend to privatize it, creating the possibility of private ownership of a new source of income. Only thus is it explained all the interest in allowing the extinction of buckets, opening the way for their privatization, using the rental figure, or even their integration into the Land Exchange. The baldiums, I repeat, are Community property to be transmitted to the comers and their use must not irretrievably compromise their future use. They constitute a reserve for a non-productable good — the soil — with all the economic and environmental implications that this entails. Its management is democratic, by the shares, and regulated by the uses and customs. This form of collective management involves people and creates a strong sense of belonging to the community and protection of collective goods. Whether in its traditional exploitation, either in more modern uses, such as the generation of alternative energies or the installation of telecommunications equipment, the buckets are generating significant wealth. The buckets and recipes that generate for communities end up as a stimulus to the permanence and fixation of people in interior areas. This is a significant factor in the occupation and ordination of the territory and—because so much is said about it, for now—guarantee better surveillance and protection against fires and other disasters. It is true that, in some places, the management of the baldiums presents weaknesses, which we do not ignore, but on the other hand there are many other good examples of management, such as the Alcanede saw or Miranda do Corvo and many others. the first, which for various reasons live with organizational difficulties, it is essential that the State support them and help overcome their difficulties; the second, it is important to encourage and dynamize them. The State, the Administration, therefore, has the indispensable role of technical support to the structures of the baldiums, without, however, underlining, falling into the old and known temptation to substitute for the will of the legitimate management bodies. It is important to all to ensure that the property of the baldiums is of the communities, it is inalienable, it is guaranteed by the Constitution and protected by the law, to ensure that the baldiums are part of a better future. The right fills the mouth permanently with the need for'stability' and predictability. We therefore urge PSD and CDS to defend the future and stability of the baldiums, as well as to defend the stability and predictability of the profits of the cells or the stability of the low taxes on the large financial groups. We are convinced that today's debate will mark a turning point in the defense of the baldiums and communities that find their spaces and their incomes. It is for this purpose that the Left Block today presents here this bill. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u84	To present the PCP bill, Mr. João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD and CDS accuse others of prejudice against property, but clearly have a prejudice against community property. Just as fascism has taken hold of people's balds against their will, some also understand that balds, in the face of new forms of wealth production, such as the exploitation of natural resources, particularly energy, cannot remain in the hands of the peoples. On 25 April, he consecrated rights in the Constitution of the Republic. There are still those who don't agree with it. The baldiums, historically, have a very close relationship with the fixing of people in the territories. They are an important instrument and complement to support this fixation. When it is increasingly evident that the country has a problem of settlement, the buckets continue to be an important instrument for this. The former Government, PSD / CDS, having any type of property other than private property in the hands of large owners, in its process of adjusting accounts with the achievements of 25 April, promoted an amendment to the Baldies Law, approved only with the votes of their parties, creating the conditions to facilitate the privatization of buckets. They changed the concept of sharing, allowing the identification as a sharing of people unrelated to the baldium, facilitated the process of extinction, eliminating the need for judicial decision, made the buckets accessible to legal trade and, through regulation, they wanted to intensify their attack either by collecting the State's investment in the baldiums that manage, but by unilateral decision and with money from management, or by resistance to the delivery of management to shares. The CFP is the party that has defended the law of communities. With the new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, conditions are created to break with the intentions of the parties on the right and to strengthen the right to Community property. As it has always assumed, the CFP seeks a law guaranteeing the people's right to their Community heritage, in which the baldium, managed democratically and preferably by the shares, produces incomes to improve the living conditions of the populations, as has happened in so many localities that are good examples of the importance of the baldiums, ensuring that the baldiums, because they are not private heritage, are not taxed and ensuring the democratic functioning of their organs. The new Baldios Law should therefore ensure that private property concepts are not applied to Community property. This confusion is always a step towards privatizing that property. We must also ensure that the Assembly of the Republic, in the use of its powers, must lay down the rules as long as possible. The referral of a lot of regulation to the later phase will assign a role to third parties, and some, as is the case with forest services, are interested, in particular in the management and delivery process of management to the shares. Although we do not follow some of the solutions proposed here, and stressing that any solution has to respect the letter and spirit of the Constitution of the Republic and the shares, serran peoples, legitimate owners of the baldiums in their uses and customs, the CFP understands that the conditions are met so that, from the specialized process there arises legislation that defends the interests and rights of the communities with baldiums in the center and in the north of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u86	To present the bill of your party, I give the floor to Mr Joaquim Barreto of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As is well mentioned in the preamble to our draft law, in particular in the explanatory statement of its presentation, which I quote, « the baldiums are integrated, since the Constituent Assembly of 1976, into the cooperative and social sector, which have since been qualified as ‘Community means of production owned and managed by local communities’, these communities are constituted by the universe of the shares, which have used and enjoyed the baldiums, according to the customs and customs’. The baldiums have always had a certain social dimension, constituting an important support for the family economies of thousands of small farmers, mainly in the center and north of the country, which they have used and enjoyed over time. For the Socialist Party, this social dimension is not at all absent from any discussion about the baldiums, which, when it occurs, is not free of ideological concepts and concepts which, of course, are at the basis of the political choice and definition. in the view of the Socialist Party, it was what happened in the last legislature, when the then majority in this Parliament, by political option, gave approval in the Assembly of the Republic to Law No 72 / 2014 of 2 September, which changed the definition of the universe of the shares and allowed the integration of the baldium lands in the Land Exchange, also dedicating the figure of the rural lease for these lands. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I recall that in February this year, more precisely on day 4, here in the plenary and following the debate of parliamentary assessments to Decree-Law No 165 / 2015, which regulated the Baldios Law, the PS argued that we should go further. He therefore proposed on that date that the Baldies Law should be amended because it did not respect some basic principles and rules for the proper functioning and management of the buckets. Following the discussion, the Assembly of the Republic decided to revoke the above-mentioned Decree-Law. It is now time for this new parliamentary majority to discuss, appreciate and approve legislation that amends the Baldies Law, introducing standards and directives that respect in its essence the concepts, ideological thoughts and community experiences that are linked to the territories where they exist. To respond to this challenge, and going to meet the real and effective interests of the populations covered by these areas, the Socialist Party presents a bill establishing the bases of organization, management and operation of the buckets. We all, without exception, have the responsibility to propose the most adjusted and appropriate solutions to avoid conflicts in the management of these areas of rural communities and to increase the well-being of people and of the shares that live on a daily basis with this reality. The context in which we live requires concrete measures, creators of wealth in the mountains and in the interior and, in the case in question, in the balds. After 42 years after 25 April 1974, with the many lessons and experiences experienced, it will now work, and to better manage this important resource, revisit the legislation, need and resolve with greater rigour some of the main issues associated with the baldiums, such as the delimitation of the baldium soils, the universe of the shares and the modalities for the use and use of the baldium. This last question is central. Historically, from 1976 onwards, Decree-Law No 39 / 76 provided that the administration of the baldiums could be made by decision of the assembly of shares « exclusively by shares » or « under arrangements of association between the shares and the State ». However, to maintain this scheme of 'partnership association', it is crucial to know what state we want and what competences we will assign to the central and regional administration. The Socialist Party wants a present, progressive and driving State of rural development in the baldis and believes that it can do so by creating mechanisms that facilitate the model of management, transparent and rigorous, allowing the opening of new possibilities for cooperation between the various entities involved in this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u88	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u89	I will finish, Mr. President. The law we present today creates conditions to manage through more effective modalities of cooperation between the shares and the baldium units that we consider more interesting and more important from the economic, social and environmental point of view than the mere distribution of revenue as unfortunately has happened recently. Our proposal, which establishes the bases for the organization, management and operation of baldiums, will allow inclusive, sustained, multifunctional management in multiple and more professional use of baldiums with greater participation of communities, shares and their governing bodies, as well as forest entities and technicians, thus reducing the inherent fire risks and providing greater efficiency, rigor and transparency in the financial management of these territories. We believe, however, that the discussion that we are now going to start is essential and will contribute to improving the proposed bills. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is good news for your expected and desired contributions. We are all few to reverse the decline in national rural areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u90	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor to present the Green Bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Attempts to attack the property, management and community use of baldiums did not begin only in our democracy. It is no wonder that, over the years, whenever these claims gained form, they returned to memory the distant 1940s of the last century, when the populations rose against the expropriation of the baldiums, a struggle, indeed, that Aquilino Ribeiro ended up immortalizing in his work Cando Lobos Uivam. In fact, contrary to a practice of centuries, against the will of the people and with serious damage to the local economies, the fascist regime would end up 'distorting' the use and use of shared baldiums, in order to become the State to carry out its administration. It was necessary to wait for the April Revolution so that the people could regain a right that belongs to the populations, and belongs, and whose origin is lost in time. Thus, through Law Decrees 39 / 76 and 40 / 76, the baldiums were formally returned to the populations and were excluded from legal trade. The constitutional relevance of the baldiums, as a social property of community goods with possession and management of communities, would arrive with the 1976 Constitution. Then, in democracy, attempts were made to proceed with the attack on the buckets. And of the various attempts to divert the use and administration of buckets by the communities, two of them would end up consummating, first with Law No 68 / 93, which proceeded to revoke decrees of 76, and more recently with Law No 72 / 2014. In fact, in the previous legislation, the majority PSD / CDS then played a major role in a substantial change to the Baldies Law, an amendment that went on to adulterate the concept of sharing, passing over centuries of uses and customs, which went on to integrate the baldiums into the private heritage of the freguesia and the municipal chambers and finally to open the door to their surrender to the private. In our view, this legislative amendment, the authorship and approval of the PSD and the CDS-PP, represents a real attack on the community ownership and management of the baldiums, allowing them to divest themselves and privatize them. Thus, to the detriment of the interests of the local communities, this legislative amendment met with some economic interests that had long expressed the desire to "put the hand" to the baldiums and that, after the law of the eucalyptization of the country, also of the authorship of the majority PSD / CDS, it had even come up to these same economic interests. In view of this scenario, the Greens consider it necessary to return the buckets to the communities, to the shares, in the exact terms laid down in Law Decrees Nos. 39 / 76 and 40 / 76, not only as a way of repairing injustice but also because the return to this legal framework can enhance an excellent instrument for the necessary restoration of the rural world and also constitute a great contribution to our getting our most organized and cleaner forest, which gains an absolutely undeniable relevance as regards the prevention of forest fires but also in reducing the size of possible forest fires. These were the reasons that led The Greens to present a legislative initiative, which was discussed in February of this year, in order to put an end to the validity of the decree-law which intended to regulate Law No 72 / 2014 and are these reasons that lead The Greens to present this bill, which aims to repeal Law No 68 / 93 and Law No 72 / 2014, replacing in force Law Decrees No 39 / 76 and 40 / 76, of 19 January. I conclude by welcoming the other parliamentary groups that today also lead to the discussion of legislative initiatives on buckets because we believe that this set of legislative initiatives will be reborn a legal framework capable of returning the buckets to the populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u92	Mr Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Do we discuss today the repeal of Law No 72 / 2014 on what grounds? With three foundations on the left side of the parties: because he adulterated and extended the concept of sharing, because he consecrated the figure of the lease and because he allows the integration of the buckets into the land bag. These are the arguments put forward by the honourable Members. Members to request the repeal of Law No 72 / 2014. « A set of evils », in the words of Mr. João Oliveira on the parliamentary days of the CFP. Go away, all the parties on the left asked for the unconstitutionality of the Law. What did the bad guys from the previous government do? Regarding the concept of sharing, what does Law No 72 / 2014 say? It says that ‘to any citizen elector of the resident parish or that there develops agroforestry or silvopastorial activity and that he enjoys the baldium, according to the uses and customs and according to deliberations taken in the assembly of shares’. Debates of the European Parliament What does Law No 72 / 2014, which you now want to revoke, say about the lease? The Law states that « it must be for the use of resources, in a sustained manner, without prejudice to the traditional use of baldium by the shares, according to all uses and customs». That's what's in the definition of the Law. What does this Law, which you want to repeal today, say about the integration of the baldiums into the land market? It says that it must be done by deliberation of the assembly of shares, approved by a qualified two-thirds majority. The gentlemen. Members of the parties on the left, who so much like to ask for the opinion of the Constitutional Court and who use the unconstitutionality declared by the Constitutional Court so many times, this time does not give you any good, because the Constitutional Court has declared the nonconstitutionality of the law. [[PCP protests.]] So, for you, in this case, nothing matters what the Constitutional Court says. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u95	That's why I'm asking, ladies and gentlemen. Members: which part of the Constitutional Court's judgment is that of the Members. Left-wingers don't understand? Who has, after all, interests and customers to satisfy? [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u96	Who makes ideological options? It's not us, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. We have only limited ourselves, in the specific case of lease, to bring transparency, to regulate and legalize illegal situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u97	And creating problems where they didn't exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u98	Mr. João Oliveira, the baldium of Tourencinho, which Mr. Deputies so praised and which, in fact, is a good example, had — I do not know if you know — a lease that was illegal...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u99	Illegal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u100	...— I have here the copies of the 1999 and 2002 lease contracts — and which have been corrected, has been transformed into an operating transfer contract. His mistake was corrected, but what the previous government wanted with this Law was to regulate, create transparency and legalize situations of buckets that were not legal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u101	Where there were no problems you created us!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u102	Let it be clear what's going on here. A Law is being reversed by an ideological option of the parties on the left, not by unconstitutionality of the Law, nor by it to respect the uses and customs. [[PCP protests.]] Finally, I would like to leave a note on the application of the proceeds of the buckets, in this particular case with regard to the PS initiative. Law No 72 / 2014 states that the revenues of the baldium must be fully applied in the baldium, according to an approved plan of use, deliberate in the assembly of shares, and that those revenues should be applied in forest, agricultural or silvopastorial investment and in community benefits and that the defence of the forest against fires and diseases should be privileged. What's the PS proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u103	Mrs Deputy, you have far exceeded the time you had at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u104	Mr. President, I'm really finishing up. The PS proposal introduces a new one. It introduces the possibility of funds from unused baldiums for a given period may be deducted from the baldium and transferred in full to the Permanent Forest Fund.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u105	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u106	The funds that are currently and have always been used exclusively in the bucket, where they are generated, if the PS proposal is approved will be subtracted from the bucket and transferred to a permanent forest fund cake. The government is not able to finance forest intervention measures, so it will subtract funds from the buckets to apply them in the forest. I'd like to know how you guys are. Ladies and gentlemen will vote on this PS proposal and if that is what you think it is to respect the uses and customs of the buckets. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u107	We know well that what bothers you are not the buckets, it's the cellulose!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u108	Transparency!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u109	Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos has the floor by the PSD, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are watching one more reversal, one more backward by this government and the majority of the left. After the parliamentary initiatives we had the opportunity to discuss, the truth is that the left political parties are presenting bills—in fact, most of them have not been discussed in committee—and as the time grid is relatively small they come to propose the amendment to this Baldios Law. The truth is that it is curious that they want to restore the 1976 situation. I was absolutely in favour of listening to the Left Block Member to urge the PSD and the CDS to defend the future of the buckets, seeking to restore a 1976 law — nor is it 1993 — it is 1976! You want to adjust your accounts to the past and you want to benefit from the fact that the Socialist Party is hostage to the radical left, and that is absolutely regrettable. The gentlemen. Members on the left come to propose a change in the notion of sharing and talk about returning the buckets to the population. They said here more than once: "Let's return the buckets to the population." And when we introduced the Law they said it was absolutely outrageous, that it was a robbery, a vessel, that would cause enormous indignation in communities and that it was unconstitutional. Well, the truth is that it was not unconstitutional — you forget to say that. They said it was absolutely unconstitutional, but the Constitutional Court did not consider it that way. Furthermore, it did not provoke any indignation, it caused only some indignation in a collective, in an organization that represents some buckets and which at the time was pronounced, but the communities were not indignant. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because, truly, the return to populations was what the PSD and CDS did. The notion of sharing was extended to all voters resident in their respective parish where the buckets are located. And the gentlemen. Members speaking in return speak in return only to some. It's a strange concept of democracy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The gentlemen. Members want the buckets to benefit only a few, but the PSD and the CDS want to be all voters resident in the parish. You want us in your conversation to defend the past. It is not the past that is concerned, Mr President, the truth is that it is transparency. What you're interested in is that the buckets are managed by few, not by all. We must have the courage to say that the baldiums must be benefited by the entire population living in their baldiums. This is returning to the populations, not what you propose. You don't understand this, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? The question of rent is still raised. The gentlemen. Members say: 'We do not want the legal trade in baldium'. Mr Deputies, but your bills allow for the sale of exploitation, and the sale of exploitation is a private law instrument. The gentlemen. Members allow celluloses, that other entities, to actually sell exploitation for 20 years! And renewables, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! Why don't you guys talk about it? Oh, my God! They can't rent, but farm disposal can do it at ease. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a private law instrument.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u111	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u112	Be ashamed, because you know that the lease already exists, it is not regulated, and we will, in fact, give you transparency. Finally, I would like to refer to the issue of the land exchange. The gentlemen. Members say that the House of Shareholders must decide, it should be intended, that only they should decide who it is that it is shared and will not allow all voters to be. But then these gentlemen are treated with a minority by VV. Ex.a, who say: "You cannot decide what you can do for these buckets, in particular you cannot say that you will put these buckets on the land bag, so that this can benefit young farmers, people and cooperatives, so that you can access those buckets that may not even be used." Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to defend and urge the PSD and the CDS to go with you in the future and to seek a 1976 law is regrettable. It is regrettable what you are doing to the country. You only know how to destroy, how to build absolutely nothing on this legislation and on this very fundamental area of Community production. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u113	With time available, Mr João Ramos of the CFP has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Between the PSD and the CDS should understand! Mrs Patrícia Fonseca says that these are the prevailing uses and customs; Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos says that it is for everyone. They therefore understand what they say. The baldiums were never of all, were of some residents in the localities, who had access to them according to the uses and customs. They've never been all of them. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You may be very satisfied with your solution, but the shares and entities that represent them are not. If you visited some shares you would know that. It is not worth talking here about solutions and ideological positions, because what you did was to respond to the paper pulp industry's claim book and changed a set of legislation, particularly the Baldios Law. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] What bothers you is that the wind towers are installed in the buckets and that they are the peoples, the communities benefiting from these incomes. That is why we are talking about ideological matters, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. What you are prejudiced about Community property and therefore wanted to apply to it all the concepts that apply to private property. We understand that there will be conditions, with the PS projects of The Greens and the Left Block, to, in committee, and in specialty, find a solution that serves the interests of the communities and that saves the baldiums, which are fundamental and very important goods to make a decisive contribution to the fixing of people within our country, that we so lack. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u115	This item has been concluded. of the following point, to which no time has been allocated, is resolution No 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Spain on Defence Cooperation signed in Baiona on 22 June 2015. I now give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to make an announcement to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that Mr President has admitted draft resolution No 464 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government intervene on Route 2 to transform this route into a « product » of economic interest and tourist promotion ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u117	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Let's check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 200 presences, to which 11 are added — the Members. Members of BE Luís Monteiro, Joana Mortágua and Jorge Costa, PS Luís Vilhena, João Soares, Miguel Coelho and Ivan Gonçalves, PSD Feliciano Barreiras Duarte and CDS-PP Nuno Magalhães, Isabel Galliça Neto and Deputy Ilda Araújo, who started his duties today and is not yet included in the electronic record—, making 211 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Mrs. Members, we begin by voting No 120 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Domingues Azevedo ( PS ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u118	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Everyone who has known Domingues Azevedo knows what tenacity and courage is in the struggle for convictions and ideas, knows what is the requirement, humility and exemption that must be placed in the fulfilment of civic, political and professional responsibilities, knows what is the total availability to be useful to the service of the common good, knows what is the constant good will and the will and joy of living that would count those around. Domingues Azevedo died too early. I was 66 years old. His life was an intense and always dedicated life to the construction of a better Portugal. in his civic life, his political participation stands out. Militant of the Socialist Party, served the council where he was born and to whom he always devoted himself, Vila Nova de Famalicão, as a member of the Municipal Assembly and as President of the Freguesia de Fradelos Assembly, where he was born. He was a Member of the Assembly of the Republic from 1983 to 1995 by the district of Braga. He was President of the National Committee for Economic and Financial Control of the Socialist Party and Chairman of the Committee for Economic and Financial Control of the Socialist Party's Braga Federation. The main causes of your life were fiscal justice and transparency. He will forever remain the first Governor of the Order of Official Accounts Technicians, created in 2010, Order for whose constitution he fought as President of the Chamber of Official Accounts Technicians, since 1996. in its professional course, Domingues Azevedo fought for the notion of the demand of performance of his profession, the necessity of rigor, transparency and organization of business and state accounts, the importance of promoting the social dimension of companies and the notion of public interest in the work of professionals who represented as essential elements for the determination of quantities, the effort that companies and citizens have to make for the financing of society. Domingues Azevedo was born into a humble family and perhaps one of its characteristics, by everyone recognized, is humility. Marked all the people who lived with him by the way he could hear, by the way he was very supportive, by the way he was always objective and serious in everything he said and did. Domingues Azevedo still had much to give and will miss us very much. to his friends, to the Order of Official Account Technicians, to the Socialist Party and in a special way to his family, who occupied a central and unique place in his life, the Assembly of the Republic expresses the deep sense of regret and loss for the death of Domingues Azevedo, in the certainty that his example of life will not be forgotten. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u119	According to the various benches, at this point of evocation, it was assigned a time of 2 minutes, for an intervention, to the PS bench. Mr Joaquim Barreto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u120	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate your giving me the floor. I would like to tell you that it is with sadness but with great pride and honour that today, in this plenary, expressed with lively voice the values, principles and conduct of the citizen Domingues Azevedo, natural of Family, Braga district. I speak of a great man, with strong civic and political intervention. I have known him for many years and have shared many moments of our personal and political life with him. Domingues Azevedo, as mentioned in the vote of regret, was a Member in this House, was an author in Family, was a national leader of the Socialist Party and for many years was a staff member of the Order of Auditors. He was a man who was made for him, often even with misunderstandings, but Domingues Azevedo never gave up proving he was right. He demonstrated, in his interventions, both in more restricted groups, both in the media, that he was a tenacious, frontal man with great courage, with great clarity in how he addressed matters, with great objectivity and also with great impartiality. It remains forever in our memory, as Portuguese, by the national and even international dimension that he has achieved, his work, his work, his commitment to the public cause. He was a man of causes and not a man of cases. Domingues Azevedo fought for greater justice in tax taxation. He fought in his life and fought for life. I had the privilege of visiting accompanied by leaders of the Socialist Party and, recently, by the Under-Secretary-General of the PS, Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes. And for everyone to know who the Domingues Azevedo was, even in the most difficult moments, and already in his last week of life, still conscious but very weak—and I say it for all this House that hears me, with different ways of thinking and sensibilities—I mean that Domingues Azevedo took hold of my wrists, because he could no longer give me a hug, and he said to me: « Joaquim Barreto, politics, parties we are, people! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PS and PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u121	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote No 120 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote: No 123 / XIII ( 2 ) ( a ) — Despite the death of Maria Isabel Barreno ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP ), which will be read by Secretary Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u122	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last September 3, at 77 years of age, Maria Isabel Barreno. Portugal lost a leading researcher and writer, but also one of the most iconic feminists in recent Portuguese history, whose memory is important to pay tribute to the important role it played in asserting equality and women's rights. Born in Lisbon in 1939, Maria Isabel Barreno graduated in Historical-Philosophical Sciences at the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, worked at the National Institute of Industrial Research, was a journalist and adviser in the cultural area of the Portuguese Embassy in Paris. of the vast published work is his book of stories Os Sensos Incomuns, which received the Camilo Castelo Branco award and the award of the Pen Club. Already to his Chronic Time romance was awarded the Fernando Namora Prize. It was with the book written in co-authorship with Maria Teresa Horta and Maria Velho da Costa that Maria Isabel Barreno affirmed himself as an unmistakable figure of Portuguese feminist history. Published in full Fascist regime, the book New Portuguese Letters crossed borders and unveiled the oppressions of the dictatorship and the condition of women in Portuguese society. Considered immoral and pornographic, the book was censored by the regime and became the motto of a trial in court that would last for two years and became known as the "Three Marias case". The reflection on female sexual expression, incest, rape, abortion and denunciation of the submission of women to the dominant patriarchal order, domestic and gender violence, but also of poverty and the injustices of colonial war, represent a crucial milestone in the evolution of feminist thinking in Portugal. His determination and dedication to the defence of women's rights also led him to establish, on the very night of the day on which he ended the judgment of the « Three Marias», together with Maria Teresa Horta and other women activists, the Movement for the Liberation of Women. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses the deepest regret over the death of Maria Isabel Barreno and addresses to her family and friends her deepest condolences. It also expresses to the Portuguese feminist movements and Portuguese society the conviction that the courage, determination and justice of the feminist causes defended by Maria Isabel Barreno will remain alive and will continue to serve as inspiration for the deepening of women's rights. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u123	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote No 123 / XIII ( 2. ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is vote No 124 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Of regret and solidarity with all those affected by the scourge of fires ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u124	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Since July of this year, Portugal has been hit by a wave of huge fires and devastating consequences that have been felt throughout the country and have produced particularly serious effects in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. In spite of all the efforts and dedication of firemen and anonymous citizens, the flames did not give way to the loss of human lives and the destruction of houses and businesses. The tragic balance is still provisional in terms of the burning area, but we have already regretted the death of five people, about 1,000 displaced and widespread material damage. in the Autonomous Region of Madeira we all witnessed the terror and tragedy that the Madeirans suffered with the sudden and sharp increase of flames near the urban areas that destroyed lives, houses and equipment in an avalanche. The Assembly of the Republic directs its deep sorrow to all the families who have lost the fire and a word of encouragement and solidarity to all the affected population, in particular those who are now forced to restore, in their homes and in their businesses, a whole lifetime of work. The Assembly of the Republic also pays tribute to all those who have engaged in the fight against fires and have assisted in the relief effort for victims, anonymous citizens, firefighters, security forces, armed forces, regional and local authorities. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u125	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 124 / XIII ( 2. ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I ask Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to read out vote No 125 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of José Rodrigues ( PS, BE and PCP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is as follows: « He died last Saturday, in Porto, on September 10, the artist José Rodrigues, an unmistakable name of the national and international panorama of plastic arts. José Joaquim Rodrigues was born in Luanda, Angola, on October 28, 1936, traveling adolescent to the city of Porto, where he took the course at the School of Fine Arts. There he was rooted and built a solid career without forgetting his Angolan roots, always present in his work. His multidisciplinary work includes numerous sculptures and paintings, illustrations for books by poets such as Eugenio de Andrade, Jorge de Sena or Vasco Graza Moura, memorable scenarios for theatre productions of the Teatro Experimental do Porto, works in ceramics and medalistics, incomparable drawings where an original religious or surrounding eroticism have found exemplary forms. He was also regularly present in several editions of the Biennial of Plastic Arts of the Avante party and, among others, he was the author of the evocative medal of the 85th anniversary of the PCP. The relevance of the work of Master José Rodrigues in the panorama of Portuguese plastic arts in recent decades was several times recognized, receiving the Soctip Prize « Artist of the Year » in 1990 and the decoration with the degree of Grand Official of the Order of the Child D. Henrique in 1994. in the 70s, participated in international biennials as representative of Portugal, in São Paulo and Venice. He was one of the founders of the Biennale of Vila Nova de Cerveira and the Cultural Cooperative Árvore, in Porto, in 1963. In 1968, together with Armando Alves, Angelo de Sousa and Jorge Pinheiro, formed the group The Four Twentys. Master José Rodrigues, thus referred to by the young artists who see him as an influence in his work, left as legacy the Social Factory, Foundation with its own name, space of influence in the plastic arts of the city of Porto, city that welcomes and confuses itself with iconic sculptures such as the « Monument to the Empresario », the « Cube of Ribeira » or the « Anjo ». Man hardly accommodated, owner of a contestative attitude that he never abandoned, Master José Rodrigues lived a life dedicated to plastic arts, persisting until the end of his days in the belief that "life has to be a form of poetry, otherwise we become a kind of bricklayer. Do not keep on seeking. ” For all these reasons, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, approves a vote of regret for the death of José Joaquim Rodrigues and presents his condolences to his family."
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u127	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, by expressing the meaning of the votes we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall continue our votes by asking Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read vote No 122 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Honored by the international aid provided by the Kingdom of Spain, the Italian Republic, the Russian Federation and the Kingdom of Morocco in the fight against fires ( CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « This year the fires again terrorized thousands of Portuguese families. The country has witnessed one of the worst summers there is memory. in this period, the flames devastated more than 100 000 hectares of national territory, corresponding to more than half of the burned area in Europe and four times the average of the last seven years. It is with particular significance that the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to the Portuguese public institutions, in particular to firefighters and other civil protection agents, and to civil society, which once again, in time of special adversity, revealed a remarkable capacity to respond to the terrible fires that hit the country from north to south and the island of Madeira and an inexhaustible spirit of dignity and self-denial. In addition to these attitudes, the Assembly of the Republic does not forget the prompt and supportive response provided by friendly countries in Portugal, notably Spain, Italy, Morocco and Russia and in the fight against fires. The spirit of cooperation expressed by these countries at a particularly dramatic time in our country honours the relations of friendship and cooperation between our peoples. His example is worthy of our deepest esteem and gratitude. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to the efforts of all those who have resisted fire pressure with particular courage; it recognises the remarkable performance of firefighters and various civil protection agents in the fight against flames; and expresses its appreciation, recognition and gratitude to all authorities and institutions in the countries that, on behalf of the values of friendship and solidarity that unite our countries, have helped national authorities in the fight against fires."
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-16.u129	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to the vote on an application submitted by the NAP, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees for a 60-day period of Bill No 296 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — In order to ensure equal access to the lease by those with pet animals ( NAPs ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma is thus reduced to 1. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 462 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government disseminate a report on the implementation of basic population screenings of breast cancer, cervical cancer, diabetic retinopathy and colon and rectum cancer (BE). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 463 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by strengthening measures to prevent, diagnose, treat and support breast cancer ( PCP ) patients. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall, in general, vote on Bill No. 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — First amendment is made to the Criminal Code and transposes Directive 2014 / 62 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the criminal protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting and replacing Council Framework Decision 2000 / 383 / JHA. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 27 / XIII ( 1 ). (a ) — establishes the legal regime for the conduct of tests, medical examinations and other appropriate means for the workers of the Prison Guard Corps with a view to detecting excessive consumption of alcoholic beverages, drug use and psychotropic substances and similar products. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on the draft lein.o 168 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Review of Law No 28 / 98 of 26 June approving the Legal Scheme for the Labour Contract of the Sport Practitioner and the Sport Training Contract ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions from PS, BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 297 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the General Law on Sports Work and Sport Training ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the PSD, the PCP and the Greens.]] The diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 253 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Exempt from VAT the donation of mobile goods to museums of the Portuguese Network of Museums ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall now vote together, four applications submitted by the authors of their diplomas, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, for a period of 120 days, without a vote, of the projects of lein. 162 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The third amendment is made to the Baldios Act, approved by Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, ensuring its use to local communities which historically and according to customs are entitled to it ( BE), 282 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishs the bases for the organisation, management and operation of baldiums ( PS ), 276 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revok Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, returning the buckets to the peoples ( PCP ) and 295 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revocation of the Baldies Act, Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the diplomas are thus down to 7. the Commission. Finally, we shall proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Spain on Cooperation in the Field of Defence signed in Baiona on 22 June 2015. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of the vote. I would like to announce to you that the next plenary meeting, which will take place on Wednesday, 21, will have the following agenda: First, we will generally discuss Bill No 28 / XIII ( 2 ). (a) — Authorizes the Government to adopt the new legal regime on the installation and operation of plants in marine waters, including transitional waters, and inland waters. Law No. 29 / XIII ( 2 ) will then be discussed in general. ( a ) — Approves the general principles and rules relating to the organisation of public tender procedures for the award by contract of concessions intended exclusively for the exploitation of municipal networks for the distribution of low voltage electricity. Parliamentary judgments 18 / XIII ( 1 ) follow. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) and 17 / III ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PSD ) — Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July amending the Statute of the Public Manager, approved by Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March, as amended by Law No 64 -A / 2008 of 31 December, and Decree-Law No 8 / 2012 of 18 January. Finally, the projects of lein.o 250 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed in general. ( a ) — Confirms the Intermodal Social Pass as a title in all collective passenger transport and updates the geographical scope of its crowns in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon ( CFP ) and 286 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrate the Andante, intermodal social pass of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, as a title in all collective passenger transports and update the geographical scope of the respective zone ( PCP ) together with draft resolution No 467 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of an effective intermodal transport system in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto ( BE ). Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work, so I will close the session. [[It was 12 hours and 35 minutes.]]
