ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities opening the galleries. The Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Emília Santos, has the floor to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I give my account of Dispatch No 28/ XIII — No admission of draft deliberation No 12/ XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which decides the conduct of two external and independent audits relating to the General Deposit Box ( CGD ) and the International Funchal Bank ( BANIF ) ( RA President ) and the presentation of draft resolution No 406 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to France ( President of the HR ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start our agenda with a debate on the financial system required by the PS. To open the debate, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2011 we signed an adjustment programme that included the financial sector as one of its most important dimensions. A special fund has been set up to ensure the recapitalisation of the sector and a set of restructuring plans has been implemented in several banks. This process of recapitalization took place in 2012 and 2013 and was preceded by an exhaustive survey of the financial and financial situation of the entire Portuguese financial sector. Cross-sectional, specialized inspections were carried out several times the credit granting procedures were evaluated, procedures on provisions and impartiality were also evaluated, and after that the amount needed to recapitalize each bank and presented a set of restructuring plans. The speech in 2013 and 2014 was that the adjustment in the financial sector went from wind to wind, the banks were solid and could finally, after a troubled period, begin to perform their function, i.e., guarantee a normal flow of credit to the economy. In 2014, Portugal left the Adjustment Program and then followed the banks whose problems were supposed to have been solved, the banks which were supposed to be solid and capitalized, the problems that had existed in the past but which allegedly no longer existed all began to arise in retrofit. The first was BES. We all remember successive phases of political leaders, from the Prime Minister to the former President of the Republic, saying that BES was solid, and then that's what we know. A year and a little later, we had the case of BANIF, a bank in which the State injected EUR 1100 million, a bank on which we were always told that there was no problem—in fact, the only thing we were told in 2015 was that the only concern was with Box. There was no concern with BANIF, there was only one concern with Caixa, because it was unable to return the 900 million CoCo (convertible contingent) that had been injected into the capitalisation process of 2012. It is still curious that in September 2015 it is said that it is strange that the Box cannot return 900 million euros of CoCo to, a few months later, the same person who made this statement, the former Prime Minister Passos Coelho, today Member, said yesterday that the Box needs, according to estimates by its own party, around 25 billion euros of capital. Now, it is not understood how one recognizes that the Box needs capital and, at the same time, strange that the Box did not return the CoCo in September 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It seems that before the elections the problem did not exist and finally, now, it is finally recognized. It is difficult to classify the Adjustment Programme, in part concerning the financial sector, as something that is not a huge failure. It is because the problem has not been taken up in its true dimension, it has not been solved and has even worsened in the following years. The current government has therefore faced an unresolved problem. The first was the case of BANIF, which is now known as well, and is now confronted with a financial sector that has additional capital needs and a huge problem of bad credit, that is not only not only solved in 2012 / 2013, but subsequently aggravated. In view of this, what are the two parties that have been in government for the past four years? They do three things: firstly, they devalue that there is any problem; secondly, they throw themselves and criticize who is trying to solve the problem which is supposed to have been solved and not been solved; and thirdly, instead of trying to understand what has gone wrong in the last four years, they try to dilute all the responsibilities by creating a background curtain and saying, "Let's inquire what's happened in the last 15 years." Now, it is not surprising that if you want to inquire about what happened in the last 15 years when, supposedly, in 2011 and 2012 this was the same: if you wondered what had happened in the past, you did the exhaustive lifting of the existing problems, you identified the need for capital, provisions and inequalities resulting from these same problems that would allow you to face the difficult times that were approaching. Today, we know that's not what happened. The problem was poorly identified for a very simple reason: PSD and CDS have always wanted to present the Portuguese crisis as a crisis centered on public finances and the responsibility of the State, when it is, above all, and in the first instance, a problem of the financial sector and a problem of indebtedness in the private sector of which public indebtedness and public finance problems are far more consequence than it causes. The recapitalisation process of 2012 and 2013, rather than having been an opportunity to truly restructure the sector, ensuring its robustness and, above all, its profitability, was, above all, a way of trying to fill a hole bucket. It was understood that if a large enough volume of money were thrown over the problem, the problem mysteriously solved itself. Now, this is a problem that not only solves itself as it has not been resolved and has even worsened. And there was no lack of warning. In addition, it is sufficient to consult all Banco de Portugal's financial stability reports and even the troika assessment reports which, successively, alert to an unresolved problem: the quality of the asset portfolio and the poor credit. last week, a 59-page letter from the European Competition Commissioner came to Parliament which, although it is about BANIF, also allows us to understand a little better the behavior pattern of the previous majority. About BANIF, we all know what happened: the State became the owner of a bank that did not follow properly and did not make the decisions that were required and were required in the necessary time. But more than about BANIF, Box reveals this pattern of behaviour in relation to the entire financial sector, because what the European Commission tells us — and we already knew — is that there was a permanent delay in solutions: not recognizing problems and unable to make decisions. The result in BANIF is already known: BANIF had to be resolved having been sold in resolution, in a very difficult situation which significantly increased costs for taxpayers, in view of the alternative of having made a decision earlier. Although it has no relationship with BANIF, the similarity between Box and BANIF is in the shareholder who is supposed to have been responsible for both banks, and it was not. Today, what we have heard from former political responsibilities is the same as ever: the problem does not exist and even we have a sentence of Steps Rabbit said in April, that bad credit is not an emergency. Apparently, for the previous majority nothing was an emergency, nothing had to be decided in a timely manner and this, as it is evident, had costs for all of us and also had significant costs for the financial sector. Today, we know that the Portuguese financial sector still has additional capital needs. Today, we also know that the quality of bank balance sheets remains a problem. And this is identified by all studies. The IMF has published a comprehensive study on the financial sector and the problem of bad credit in September 2015 ; the Banco de Portugal has been alerting for a long time to this problem; troika reports are mainly the post-Adjustment Programme. What do PSD and CDS do? They devalue the problem, say it doesn't exist and shoot who's trying to solve it. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the challenges of the financial sector are too important to be delivered to political chicana. We all have the responsibility to do at least two things: to understand the dimension of the problem and also what has been done well and what has been done wrong and, above all, what has not been done, because only then can we truly understand what today, unfortunately, will still have to be done by this government to do what the previous government has not done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u5	Mr. João Galamba, Mr. Deputies Miguel Morgado, from PSD, Mariana Mortágua, from the Left Block, and Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP. How do you want to respond, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u6	Together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u7	All right. Mr Miguel Morgado, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Galamba, I heard your intervention to open this debate and I did not know what the purpose of the PS is, but at the end of the debate, there he told us that what he really wants to understand. So we are going there, but I would first like to give you a friend advice: the PS should be concerned at this moment about overcoming contradictions behind each other in its own speech and in the government's speech before dedicating itself to this exercise to distorting what the PSD Members have said in the past or say today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u10	It was an effort that was good for him and, I assure you, it would increase the debate. The last contradiction of the many that we have had, between press conferences on stage to minutes of football games that mobilize public opinion, concerns another manoeuvre of this government which, yesterday at the time of the selection game, put on a television channel a news—because this television channel cites a source of government—of the greatest seriousness, according to which the government would be preparing the creation of a bad bank, probably asking for help from the European mechanism that manages the rescues to the countries of the euro area. However, we also receive the news through the press that the government rejects what he himself said at the time of the football game. I think it was this exercise that the PS should dedicate itself and not be so obsessed with what the PSD says or stops saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u12	But finally... Mr Galamba says he wants to understand. It is a very good intention for him, but when I heard him speak, I remembered - from an interesting film I saw about 15 years ago - and I suppose that Mr Galamba should have seen it too - and that I am summarizing in an instant. in this film, the protagonist is a person who has a disability: he can only retain in memory the last 15 minutes, or something that the fences; all the rest the memory does not hold. Now, this generates unusual situations, such as this: he realizes that he is running after a man who flees from him, but he does not remember the reasons that lead that man to flee and himself to pursue him. Why? Because without memory we literally don't know what we're doing. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And that lack of memory leads Mr Galamba to talk about the last three years. in the film, we also understand the origin of the disability of the protagonist of this same story. There was a traumatic event in his life and the attacker hit him in the head. And that's when he picks up the senses that he realizes he can't keep memory any more than 15 minutes. This is an analogy, it is a strict parallel to the situation of the PS, because the PS also has a traumatic event that was very evident in the intervention of Mr Galamba : the PS refuses to accept that it threw the country into bankruptcy in 2011, which was, on his knees, asking the troika for an assistance program that threw the country into a very serious economic recession and which naturally swept the financial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u13	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u14	This was the legacy of the PSD/CDS government and it is to that light that needs to be seen the measures that have been implemented, the recovery of the financial sector. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But the film also has an interesting thing: the protagonist has arranged a practice, taking into account its inability, to go withholding some information. He tattoos information in the body that can't be lost. For example, phone numbers, car registration numbers he considers suspects, and so on. I will not propose to Mr Galamba that he begin tattooing his body with important information, but I would like to ask if he does not think it is important to remember—and I think that Mr Galamba has better memory than he appears—for this debate he wants to do and for the situation he wants to realize, that the financial system in 2010 and 2011 as a whole had transformation ratios in order of 160 % and that he is now at its point of balance. The same applies to Box which at the time in 2011 had a transformation ratio of almost 140 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u16	You know what that means, don't you know, Mr. João Galamba? Lots of external debt! And we know why bankruptcy arrived in Portugal. It was not a coincidence, it was not because the world changed in 15 days; it was due to a socialist economic model, whose only production was debt, debt and more debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u18	And that also shattered the financial system. That was the situation we arrived in 2011 and that was what we had to deal with. The capital ratios of the financial system as a whole are a fact. It is worth remembering — or not — Mr. João Galamba, that the bank robustness measure in 2011 was in the order of 7%. What is the value now, Mr. João Galamba? Is it not true that these ratios have improved by 60 %? What do you have to say about this? in this noble attempt, I have already told you, to understand what is happening in Portugal, will we now ignore these facts simply because Mr Galamba has memory problems? I end by saying this: if Mr Galamba wants to understand — and I want to! — what is happening, then why does it not follow the PSD and if the government does not consider it unacceptable not to answer questions as simple as these: exactly what is the amount of the actual capital needs of the General Deposit Box, taking into account the current regulatory environment? These amounts are being talked about — 5 billion, 4 billion, we don't know that anymore! — are they above these capital needs or not? If they are above, what is the reason why so much effort is required for Portuguese taxpayers? It is a set of questions and facts without which this debate risks being just, yes, a background curtain and another propaganda maneuver. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u19	Before giving the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the Bureau recalls that there are global times allocated to the parties and therefore the parliamentary groups will manage-CL - as they understand, either for interventions, or for requests for clarification. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. João Galamba, the subject that brings us to debate is important. The bank is, curiously and ironically, the most debated sector in this House of the Republic, but it is also the one in which discussion and practice have not gone to the essential. The truth is, since the crisis, we have been "shuting the sun with the sieve" and then we are surprised when we catch fires at the bridges, because, in fact, there was no protection, it was just a sieve. Mr. Miguel Morgado brought us a more intellectual film reference, so let us say, identical to a less intellectual example, that I had already referred to in Dory's film, the fish that systematically loses memory. But the most paradigmatic example of this collective negation exercise is the previous PSD/CDS government. BES failed and New Bank was allegedly created without taxpayers' money to be sold for a few months. Two years have passed, the losses have accumulated, the Resolution Fund is almost insolvent and there is 4000 million of the taxpayers there, the New Bank has not been sold and not even the perimeter of the resolution was correct, had to be extended, the decision of the Banco de Portugal a short time ago. We still have BANIF where EUR 1100 million was injected. The Banif situation was hidden, it was ensured that the Bank was viable, that it would be sold a few months ago, that there was no problem and that it would even make profit. That said, at the time, the PSD. Four years later, BANIF was bankrupt and it was necessary to put 3,000 million of the taxpayers. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u21	The BCP returned a third of the CoCo, but it's far from being capitalized. The General Deposit Box did not return the CoCo money, but it also needs capital. Montepio was downgraded in June, but PSD and CDS insist that they left the financial system more solid than when they got to power. After all these cases, after the inequalities we know today in the bank, after the lack of capital we know today in the bank, the PSD and the CDS insist that the bank is in better condition. It's pure denial! It is pure denial, even more motivated by political management, because we all know what motivated decisions to deny the past: it is not wanting to assume that something needs to be done with the bank because it has costs, which, in turn, have political costs as well. And neither the PSD nor the CDS wanted to bear those costs. But it is not just talking about the past that we can prevent the future. It is necessary to understand what the PS intends to do differently from what the PSD and CDS did. Recapitalizing the General Deposit Box is a priority, because we cannot continue with the strategy of "putting our head in the sand" and closing our eyes waiting for everything to pass and that we do not have to deal with the problems. It is that the theory of throwing money on the problems and hoping that the problem will be solved by itself did not solve, nor did it result in the past. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The proof of this is the 4000 million that Portuguese taxpayers still have in the New Bank, far more than the money injected into BANIF. So I think we can forget this. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, recapitalizing the General Deposit Box is a priority, but we need to know the accounts that justify this recapitalization. We need to deal with the inequalities of the financial system. We cannot deny their existence, but we must understand what their proposal is. I do not take seriously a news that is denied an hour ago and that still takes 1 minute of Mr. Miguel Morgado's intervention,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u22	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u23	... but it is necessary to understand what is the proposal for the inequalities of the financial system. We're not creating a bad bank to be the contributor to pay it and the bank is good to go to the private. You need to understand what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u24	Who saw it and who saw it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u25	We need to recapitalize banks, we need to have a bank that serves the economy. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u26	Mrs. Members, create conditions for the honourable Member to continue. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u27	So uncomfortable, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. It's so uncomfortable! It is necessary to recapitalise the banks, have a bank serving the economy and none of these objectives is compatible with what is expected for the New Bank to meet the right plan, which is to deliver the New Bank to the stock market or to any external buyer who appears and with possible damage not only to the taxpayers but also to the stability of the financial system. We can criticize the past, but we have an obligation to do better in the present. So having bank control, having no more public money to hand over to private banks, having the ability to deal with inequalities and having a recapitalised public bank seems to me four essential conditions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u28	So, the BANIF for Santander was what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u29	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Galamba, first of all I would say that his intervention ended, above all, with the hope that the Government of his party, supported by the Bloc and the CFP, had some good sense and some responsibility in dealing with these issues related to the financial system. Because the fact is that the government and, in particular, the Minister for Finance, instead of waiting for the next National Selection game to give press conferences on this matter, perhaps it would have been good to come here today to answer a few questions. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I would also like to say the following: the General Deposit Box is a public and reference institution and, as far as the CDS is concerned, it will continue to be,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u31	Better even!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u32	... but the truth is that your party, along with the Block, the PCP and the Government that support it, is the real responsible for a real sales of rumors in which they launched the entire Portuguese financial system and also the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u34	Your responsibility is this and it is for her that they will be called to respond. Therefore, you may come here to do all — and I will use an euphemism — creative exercises of history that you understand. You can, for example, go up to the rostrum and say, with absolute defiance, that started with the BES. Mr. Deputies, I thought I was living in a country where there had been a bank called BPN. After all, no. This was all a hallucination: there was no BPN, there was no BPP, there was no problem with the BCP... All started with the BES. In fact, with a not so unexpected help from Mrs Mariana Mortágua, it is no longer extraordinary that the Left Block, which was a party that had so much curiosity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u35	That was in the old days!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u36	...now, while losing the appearance of impartiality, has lost curiosity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u37	It is a «Laundry», today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u38	Because it doesn't stop being very strange that whoever asked so many questions had about BES and about BANIF, it doesn't have any about the General Deposit Box. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] It is a precious aid which, of course, either Mr. João Galamba or Mr. Minister of Finance are grateful for, but I would say, it is not a great exercise of service to the country. Mr. João Galamba, since the government chose not to answer the questions, neither here nor out of here did he agree that he would answer a very simple question, since he said that the problem is more than identified, and then he also identified the culprits. It is always the fault of someone other than the Socialist Party. Sometimes it is from the previous government, sometimes it is from Brazil, then it is from Angola, now apparently will be from Brexit. It's always from someone who's not from the gentlemen. But since the problem is so well-identified and the honourable Member has shown that he knows it so well, I would like to ask him a question that has been heard in public for months: what are you going to do to solve the problem and how much will it cost to solve it? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u39	It is as simple as this, Mr President, it is no more complex than this. Notice : we have already had the stage of the vehicle creation; then the stage of the vehicle creation ended, or, on the other hand, it did not end, it stopped being reported, and there was news about the Box, and one thing, being different from the other, is not exactly contradictory. But even with regard to Box, we have heard of many amounts. We've heard of 2000 million, 4 billion, 5000 million. Mr President, it does not fail to be very impressive to those who have lived in Portugal in recent years who are apparently talking more than 1000 million or less than 1000 million, more than 5000 million or less than 5000 million as if it did not make any difference. Apparently, all of a sudden, in Portugal, it makes as much as 1000 million here or less 1000 million there. I don't think that's the way it is! More: it does not cease to be extraordinary if so many questions exist about whether this amount goes to the deficit or whether it goes to debt. I would like to recall the following: whether it is accounted for in any way or in any other way someday—or today, by us or tomorrow, by our children or by our grandchildren— this money will have to be paid and, as such, the government will have to explain. Thirdly, and also not less important, Mr President, it is necessary not only to clarify how much, but, in relation to the General Deposit Box, what exactly are the problems that you want to solve and how much you need to solve them. Because, Mr President, it is not enough to speak in bad credit, although we will have to talk a lot about it and it is also appropriate for many questions to be answered, while it is a bit strange that the inconvenience shown here by several benches and the fact that they do not want to answer. I understand it would be important to do so. In any case, are we talking about a restructuring of the General Deposit Box Group? What does this restructuring mean? You mean lockdown? Yes or no? You mean layoffs? Yes or no? In case you are, do you mean dismissals from how many people? Mr President, this debate was an initiative of your party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u40	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u41	The government that you have been supporting is for months — I repeat, for months — refusing to answer these questions. Therefore, if you have called the debate, you support the government and the government do not want to be here, then, honourable Member, please answer the questions and end the doubts once and for all. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u42	To reply, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u43	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Mr Miguel Morgano, Mariana Mortágua and Cecilia Meireles the questions they asked. Mr. Miguel Morgado, I can assure you that the Socialist Party does not go from knees anywhere, it is customary to stand; if you are used to other positions, the problem is yours, it is certainly not mine. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The honourable Member has referred here to a film reference and let me also use one, a film in which there was someone who saw dead people everywhere. The honourable Member also sees socialism everywhere and is always amazing that he wants to transform a banking crisis that has been international and that is still European today,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... I repeat, a banking crisis that has been international and that is still European and national, in a characteristic of socialism. Indeed, Mr President, this is amazing and shows that there is someone with some memory problem here is certainly not me. The honourable Member, as well as his leader, who recently made a similar statement, does not seem to understand that a bank should not only have capital and liquidity. A bank may have the capital it has to, if its assets and balance sheet do not have sufficient profitability to generate organically, the bank does not have a viable business model. [[PSD protests.]] The honourable Member said here that we have dropped the transformation ratio immensely, but I am telling you that in the case of Box, we have dropped too much, because the transformation ratio of Box is just over 80 %. Therefore, Mr President, ensuring the robustness and viability of the business model is essential, but I can assure you that what you did in the past was not to make the business model viable in banks. In fact, what they did was try to fill a hole bucket. They can put the capital that they want, if the bucket is holes, they're throwing money on the street. And that's what happened. Do you not know that your party's approach to all these matters seems to be that it is not urgent? Does it seem normal that in December 2014 a European Commissioner said that we could no longer postpone the problem, that he had to be solved immediately, defining a deadline until March, with which the former Minister of Finance, now sitting in her first row, has committed itself, and that same Minister of Finance has not delivered the letter to anyone, making it impossible to comply with that deadline? Mr BANIF was not urgent, the Box was not urgent, no problem in the financial sector was urgent! Fortunately, Mr. Deputies, the PSD and the CDS are no longer in the government, because if they were aware that they would not try to solve anything. And with a goal, especially as regards the Box. It's just that you've already figured out what you guys wanted to do in the box. What they wanted to do in Box was not solve the problem to make your privatisation inevitable.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u44	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u45	You can say, "Oh! "sometimes you want, but we all remember successive statements by the President of your party. Because now, conveniently, he has changed his position, we do not forget what he has defended successive times, and negligent behavior, as an shareholder, both in Banif and in Box is proof of it itself. It is that if there is a problem with BANIF and the Box and the only thing Passos Coelho says is that he is very concerned about the Box, not saying a single word about BANIF and, if BANIF had the problem that he had, it becomes clear what the goal was. The goal was to degrade the Box so that it could privatize. Unfortunately, today, that seems to be what they intend to do. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, with regard to the New Bank and the General Deposit Box, we have a disagreement, not because I do not advocate a strengthening of the public position in the financial sector but because at the moment ensuring a public bank requires investment and I have doubts that the State has the financial capacity to ensure the investment necessary to enable two assets of the size of the Box and the BES. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I would rather focus and bet on the bank which is already public, which is an essential asset for the Portuguese financial sector. Mrs Cecilia Meireles is also a bit of a fight. A few months ago I thought September was after October,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u46	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u47	... now it seems to me that BPN was rescued in 2015. Madam Member, what I said was that after the clean exit and after allegedly solved the financial sector problem, first came the BES. Yes, first came the BES. It does not appear that BPN was nationalized in 2014, it was at the height of the 2008 financial crisis. So I don't get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u48	of the first crisis, because there were already two!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u49	You must understand that this Parliament is not monitoring acts that have not yet taken place. The questions you want to ask and which are perfectly legitimate must be answered by the shareholder state,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u50	Well, there you go. Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u51	...that it is who is currently dealing with the matter that you have not dealt with, Mrs Member. That's the point! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] If you want, we have two problems here. We have a problem that has not been solved and one that is in the process of being and, if you do not mind, I do not think this Parliament should devalue the fact-finding that has already been put into practice to speculate on acts that have not yet existed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u52	Speculation is what you're doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u53	We're on to the interventions. The first inscription that the Bureau registers is by Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We can continue to discuss who has and has no memory, we can continue to discuss who has and does not have responsibilities, but the truth is that people cannot spend their lives working for banks. That's enough! We need to get rid of this immorality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u55	No more!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u56	We all agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u57	Let's go to the movie. The harmful nature that has marked the management of the bank, having as its sole objective the maximum and rapid distribution of dividends by shareholders, allows us to see that private banks are increasingly interested in supporting the national economy and are increasingly interested in continuing the path that facilitates tax evasion and money laundering, continuing speculation and removing any social utility to citizens' savings. in this context, rebirth an important financial public sector is not only a challenge, it is not only an option, it is an absolutely essential condition to promote the economic and social progress of our country. It is a decisive element in combating financial speculation, enhancing the reserve of these resources for productive investment and directing credit policy where it should be directed: for the economy, for the development of the country and for improving the living conditions of people. But for that we will have to strengthen and regain the public control of the bank. If error is bad, worse than error is not to grasp with the mistakes of the past. And if we look at what was our recent history, we realize that the decisions of several governments to hand over the bank to the private ones represented a monumental mistake. In fact, the privatization of the financial sector destroyed value and caused wealth to disappear from everyone. If it was good to fatten the fortunes of a few, it represented, at the same time, large losses accumulated for the state and for Portuguese families. And today we see the results of these decisions to alienate the bank: it is the Portuguese, the reformed, the workers, the unemployed and the social state who are called to pay the bill to go to an industry that literally resigned from the responsibility of boosting the economy and helping families. And we're not talking about change, we're talking about billions of euros. That is, while a few make million-dollar transfers of money from the productive sector to financial speculation, while a few channel money from the depositors to the transfer of credits to the companies of the banking groups themselves, so many times without any guarantee of return, and while they proceed to the distribution of large sums in dividends by shareholders, the Portuguese continue to cover the holes and bear the costs of the irresponsibility of those who, meanwhile, have been fattening their fortunes. It's unfair and it's a lot of money. There are a lot of millions that are needed for our economy and our productive equipment. It's a lot of millions, which no one knows where they are today, no one knows where they stand. We don't know where they are, but we know they're not where they need them: in the Portuguese production sector. And we know more: we know that the problems of our financial system are not right now and that the previous government did not prefer to face them. We know that the PSD and CDS have not been tired of announcing such a clean exit when the banking sector in our country is one of the ones that needs greater intervention at the level of capitalisation. We know that the previous government preferred to postpone both the problems of BANIF and the General Deposit Box to not only sell the idea of the clean exit but also to prepare the way for the privatization of the General Deposit Box. But we also know that the time has come to interrupt the domain of financial speculation and to place the bank at the service of our economy and the development of the country. This is why the Greens continue to defend that the great pillar of the Portuguese financial system, which is the General Deposit Box, must continue entirely in the hands of the State. And that is also why the Greens continue to understand that the sale of the New Bank will mean a new BANIF or a new BPN, with serious damage to the national economy and to taxpayers. We therefore believe that the best solution for our economy, national interest and taxpayers will be the one that will enable the State to hold public control of the New Bank. It is time to direct resources to our economy, to invest in our production, to create wealth and jobs. It is time to strengthen the fight against regional asymmetries and transform the bank into a constructive element for social justice. And, above all, it is time to stop the moral monstrousness that represents forcing taxpayers to cover up the holes created by the irresponsible bankers. But as much as we have done, as more efforts are made to stretch the memory, these purposes will only be possible by strengthening and recovering the public control of the bank. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u58	No requests for clarification were made to Mr. José Luís Ferreira, we moved on to the next speech by Mrs. Maria Luís Albuquerque of the PSD. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has allocated a debate on the financial system which we consider very timely. We miss the schedule because the government has systematically refused to answer the questions that the PSD has put on the General Deposit Box, which is the largest bank of the Portuguese financial system, as it did not answer the questions we asked him about the interferences in a private bank and the relationship between its shareholders. But it is still a timely and necessary debate. It is only that, as usual, the Government and the parties of the majority try to write the story in its own way, rather than explain to the Portuguese how, why and how much of our money they intend to spend. Until a long time ago, the government assured that the economy would grow, create jobs, bring back migrants, that the return of income to families would be the engine of this growth, that there were no problems that were not so magically overcome, that the country needed only to grow and that it was its revenue that would guarantee it. It was the new time. Only the new time, after all, is the old time, the old habits.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u61	Things are starting to go wrong, because they could only go wrong and apologize. It is the previous government, it is Europe, it is the Brexit, it is the crisis in Angola, in Brazil, in China, are the financial speculators who stop lending us money when they tell them we don't want to pay. Anyway, it's all and everyone's fault, but it's never the result of your actions. They come to the point of arguing that the exit of the Adjustment Program, in 2014, was not a clean exit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u62	Look at that! It was a cleanup!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u63	...because he didn't leave all the problems solved. The PS, the PCP and the Left Block did not hear what the PSD said in the 2015 election campaign? We said the country's situation was better, but it was still fragile. We warned that recovery had to be gradual, weighted, with feet sitting on the floor. We remembered that the worst had already passed, but that it was necessary to maintain the direction, with determination, in order to protect the present and the future. We warned that promising to give everything to everyone, immediately, without cost, was a story of children.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u64	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u65	The Portuguese have heard and understood — and so we have won the elections. The PS, the PCP and the BE did not listen, they did not understand, or do they realize, what, unfortunately of all of us, will give the same. And we have also heard the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, regret that they have problems to solve. What would they say if they had received EUR 78 billion of problems to solve in a country on the brink of bankruptcy? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Or if they had to rule from a Memorandum that they did not negotiate, to recover the country from a bankruptcy in which they had no responsibility, putting the interest of Portugal and the Portuguese ahead of everything? When they arrived at the government — and it is good to remember — they received an economy rising 1, 5 % above the European Union average, they received a deficit that was 3 %, excluding BANIF, the government debt to be reduced, the unemployment rate to be reduced, the exports to be increased, the safe deposit boxes full to cope with any unforeseen occurrence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u66	As long as the PSD continues on this, we're fine!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u67	The safes, filled in the time of the previous government, were an insult to the sacrifices of the Portuguese... [[Protests from the PCP, the Greens and the PS MP Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] ... and that now, unfortunately, they are far less full, they are even argument used by the Minister of Finance to reassure those outside of us who look at us with growing concern. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Members, the financial system is the mirror of the economy: it recovers when there is growth and confidence; it remains in difficulties, when growth declines and confidence disappears. And a financial system in difficulty does not help the economy grow. They say the previous government did nothing for the financial system. Don't you?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u68	Look!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u69	Between 2010 and 2015, the capital level of the banking system increased by 5 percentage points from 7, 4 % to 12, 4 %, and more than EUR 30 billion was recorded and absorbed — this is according to data from the Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u70	The demands have risen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u71	Is there still work to be done? Surely there is, and it is the government's responsibility to do this work. Before anything else and above all, creating confidence and making the economy grow. But what has this majority done since he took power? He claimed that austerity had ended, but he took more of them all to return to some more quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u72	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u73	He accused those on whom we depend to lend us money to want the country's misfortune and, on alternate days and in parties at once, threaten not to pay the debt. It reversed the concessions of the transport undertakings, removing foreign investors from what Portugal needs so much, to give the CGTP the power that the workers had withdrawn from it over the years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u74	And the PSD cameras too!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u75	It reversed the IRC reform and destroyed fiscal predictability, because it neither likes nor respects the private initiative. It announces, at every opportunity, that it will reverse everything the previous government has done and that it has allowed us to grow back and regain credibility. And it still feeds the social communication with rumors about the General Deposit Box and the rest of the financial system, which then does not confirm nor lie, leaving room for speculations that harm the entire financial system. Even more serious, because it is a deep disrespect for the greater value of democracy, this majority resorts to all the dossiers to prevent Parliament, and through it, the Portuguese, from scrutinying their decisions and intentions. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] They say that, after they do, they will tell us. What are they afraid of not wanting to discuss, openly and now, the recapitalization of the General Deposit Box? Where does so much nervousness and discomfort come from? What are they preparing to make the Portuguese, shareholders all that we are from the General Deposit Box, can't you know before? And what could be more detrimental to the credibility of a financial system than to lack of transparency and lack of confidence? We know the situation in which the General Deposit Box was located at the end of last year. We know what effort has been made, by your board of directors, by your employees and by your government, to strengthen your capital, to rationalize resources, to meet the objectives of the letter of mission that we have assigned to you. And it's because we know all that we don't understand the recapitalization values of the General Deposit Box that you hear talk about. And that's why we demand to know. There is nothing that our financial system needs more than stability and trust. And nothing this majority decides and does promotes stability and trust. They don't look for your responsibility in others. Do not apologize to the past or to the external environment. Abandon old habits, draw enemies to distract attention. We rule, we resolve! Respect the sacrifices that the Portuguese have made and do what is yours: do not make the Portuguese have to go through everything again, because that, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you will not be forgiven. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u76	Three Mrs were registered. Members to request clarification and the honourable Member has informed the Bureau that he will answer them together. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Jamila Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u77	Mr President, dear Members and dear Mr. Members, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, listening to Mrs Deputy, we felt that after all the diagnosis of this Member mentioned by Mr Miguel Morgado is underlying in the PSD Parliamentary Group. In fact, having had responsibilities, until very recently, in the Government, as Minister of Finance, this speech clearly suffers from this hollywoodesca version in terms of disease. So we are clearly facing a problem. But in the face of all these questions, these doubts and this lack of memory, I think there is a question that the Portuguese want to see answered. It is because Mrs Deputies wants to understand the General Deposit Box — and she repeated it - several times in her speech and various inquiries have already been made in this sense — as if it were a new thing or a strange being to our knowledge and experience, as if there were no possible responsibilities for her situation and no mistakes made in the past and we were not, at this time, by the hand of the current government, to live a moment of opportunity for the public bank. And these efforts and initiatives for the response seem a little blurred by this role. But we also have the notion that, with its questions, it would squat a little out the role that the General Deposit Box plays in the development of the economy, or even in the socio-financial support to the less prepared and more isolated populations of the major development poles. As we also know what network dynamics the General Deposit Box has on the territory and what impact this has on its profitability, but also on the social and public responsibility that the General Deposit Box has today, and we want it to continue to have in the future. But we also know the role that the General Deposit Box has had, and has, as a marker and regulator of its peers, and we also know what this meant in terms of balance in the unbalanced relationship, which we know is always, of the financial system with bank clients,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u78	You don't seem to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u79	...or as a safe haven, either for clients or for state, at the heart of the financial crisis. And we know that this was important as a public bank and we clearly know that this role was decisive.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u80	It wasn't any of that last time they ruled!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u81	But, in the face of all this, the only question I would like to ask, in order to be able to answer all these questions and to have the notion that we are not with moral reserves in relation to any of this, is this: after all, is the PSD in favour of the existence of a public bank? It is necessary to understand whether the statements made by the PSD at that time as a government — and now so concerned with the General Deposit Box problem — were aimed at privatizing the General Deposit Box,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u83	Never!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u84	... no longer were the statements of then Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho, in his concern with the non-reimbursement of the EUR 900 million in CoCo, who knew that the Box would have difficulties in making. So you have to understand. It is necessary that this privatization plan, which then Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho tried to put on the agenda, that is, once and for all, clarified here. The honourable Member has pointed out that confidence is a fundamental pillar of the financial system. And trust is an absolute value: either trust or not trust. So when you guys are. Members propose the creation of a committee of inquiry when they ask so many questions about the General Deposit Box problem, even before the executive action has the answers, it is important to understand: but what answers? Do you want to act on the strategy they had in time, or do you really want to give the General Deposit Box an opportunity to play their role as a public bank? Do you want us to safeguard it as a public bank and indeed there is a public bank that is an unquestionable regulator of the Portuguese financial system? It is very important that the PSD, once and for all, respond to these questions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u85	Mr Paulino Ascenção has now the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have seen here an exercise of hypocrisy and defiance by Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u87	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u88	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u89	... if you want answers to the questions you have put, when the first person responsible for answering these questions is the honourable Member, as former Minister of the former Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The honourable Member came here to say: " resolve the problems, do not justify themselves with the past! » But the honourable Member has just justified, with the past, the disaster that was the governance of her party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u90	He's completely wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u91	The PSD and the CDS now want to see the champions of transparency with this commission of inquiry to the CGD ( similar to what happened with the Banif Commission of Inquiry, which they also supported ), as if this PSD and this CDS were different parties from those who joined the previous government. Madam Member, why didn't you do the audits that were required, while you were Minister of Finance and had the direct custody of the General Deposit Box?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u92	That's very good! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u93	Why has it not fully clarified the situation of the financial system? Yes, because there was that motto« Fuck the elections! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But that clarification is that I could even screw up the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u94	The Block is a 'Laundry'!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u95	Therefore, he did not want to justify, he did not want to give the information that was required. Why has the Governor of Banco de Portugal renewed after all the problems he has experienced during your term of office in the financial system?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u96	Good question! Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u97	The "clean exit" was a great fraud, because all the dirt was hidden under the carpet. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The credibility of the PSD is illustrated in those magnificent statements at the recapitalisation of BES : « Trust, because it is a solid institution! » And, a few weeks ago, EUR 1 billion was volatilized! This action aims only to complicate the recapitalization of the Box, because for the PSD and for the CDS inject money into the private bank, very well, but recapitalize the Box, as a public bank, that is that cannot be. Put a lot of millions in the New Bank to sell it quickly to the private ones, it may be; have the majority of capital in the BANIF and let the privates continue to manage it to their bel-pleasor, it may also, there is no problem; and inject in the BANIF EUR 3000 million to deliver it to the Santander soon thereafter, there was no opposition to that either. Now, recapitalize the Box and keep it as a public bank, that can't be!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u98	It was the government that you supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u99	We voted against! What about the PSD?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u100	So it's ideological prejudice... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u101	We voted against! Against!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u102	You did not object. It is ideological prejudice against the public sector that moves right, it is the promotion of great private interests. And this is evident from the hiring of the former Minister of Finance by a company that lives and feeds on bankruptcy outside. [[PSD protests.]] This was like a performance award, as Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The question is: why didn't you clear up all these doubts while you had this privileged possibility? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u103	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u104	Mr President, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, first of all let me remind you of the words of Mrs Cecilia Meireles, who said that the PS has done everything to avoid taking responsibility. We are seeing exactly the same exercise on the part of PSD and CDS-PP now,... [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]] ... mainly about the problems that still exist in the bank or, better, which get worse from day to day in the Portuguese financial system. And on that, Mrs. Member is even right: PS, PSD and CDS-PP have subscribed to the troika pact that condemned the Portuguese to a process of impoverishment... [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] ...and increasing the unprecedented exploitation, at least in democracy, and which has hidden the problems of the bank. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque will certainly remember, because her party was also very pleased to have been part of these negotiations, it was told the Portuguese that the bank's capital needs could not reach EUR 12 billion. But the honourable Member, who by chance was Minister of Finance in the former Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u105	Just by chance!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u106	...is obliged to know that all this construction that tried to justify the pact of aggression on the Portuguese, in fact, was an ambush and hid a much more serious reality. In fact, it is the data of Banco de Portugal itself, in January 2016, which is certainly still a result and based on the data that the honourable Member knew, which identify that, during the years 2011 to 2015, the problems of inequalities in the bank have not ceased to grow and have accumulated to the point of creating capital needs that may reach EUR 56 billion in 2011. Madam Member, come now to do this juggling of trying to make us believe that bad credit in the bank arises from one moment to the other and that it represents a problem at least one moment to the other is not an irresponsibility, because it is certainly deliberate and intentional... but the honourable Member, as Minister, did everything to hide from the Portuguese the real situation of the bank. [[PCP, Os Verdes and BE Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u107	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u108	We remember very well, Mrs Deputy, when, in response to the CFP on the Banif situation, she told us that she didn't even understand the question, because in Banif, it was all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u109	That's right! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u110	When the CFP asked him about the BSE situation, she said: « The government has nothing to worry about in private groups! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u111	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u112	We remember very well the way Mrs Deputy, as Minister, did everything to hide from the Portuguese the problem that was growing every day in the bank. This is because impartiality and poor credit have not only persisted, they have grown from year to year. And to keep the narrative of the clean exit alive — which was a clean but in the pockets of the Portuguese — the honourable Member did everything, including lying. And that, Mrs Deputy, is a responsibility that can only be borne by you and your government. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u113	That's so ugly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u114	In reply, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u115	Mr President, I want to start by responding immediately to Mr. Miguel Tiago's statement, which I consider serious, because he accuses me of lying. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u116	This is no longer the first time that we have this debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u117	It's an offense! It's true, yes, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u118	It's an offense, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u119	Free offense!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u120	I'm offended! [[PCP protests.]] And of the many times that the CFP accused me of lying, in all of them, I proved that I had not lied, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u122	What is "proven"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u123	And it is also important to recover that memory! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] I will try to answer the questions that you are. Ladies and gentlemen have put me in, and for that, I can even repudiate a part of my speech in which I say that the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen did not listen, they did not understand or account.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u124	We've got it and it's been a long way!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u125	This is because, in fact, the questions that have now been put to me show that they have not heard or understood or that they do not understand. I want you to be careful, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, because I think the other alternatives are worse. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, with regard to the difficulties that the PSD allegedly wants to put to the recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box, I would say, and this has already been said many times but perhaps it is useful to repeat: the PSD has nothing against the recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box. The General Deposit Box is a public bank and, as such, must be recapitalised by its shareholder. But as a public bank and as shareholders we are all, each of the Portuguese, each of the taxpayers, is that transparency is particularly important.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u126	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u127	All bank shareholders approve first what will happen when they put capital in a bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u128	I didn't ask anything about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u129	What we are insistently asking the government, which is not here today, but eventually you will be able to answer for it, is: how much? Why? In what way? For what?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u130	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u131	We want to know how much the government intends to put in the General Deposit Box, which justifies the amount, whatever it is, and to do what. We have a lot of concerns, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have a lot of concerns about why we talk about 4000 or 5000 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u132	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u133	The gentlemen. Members say I knew what was going on in the General Deposit Box. Well, I knew it, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why I do not understand where 4000 or 5000 million come from, and that is why we ask for explanations!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u134	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u135	This value is not reasonable in view of the information that is known. That's exactly why you wonder why it's going to be 4000 or 5000. Say 'yes' or 'no', confirm!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u136	BE doesn't want to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u137	The Portuguese have the right to know what they intend to do in the public bank. They also have the right to know and demand that, with the taxpayers' money to be placed there, no debt will be forgiven to large companies, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u138	Now, now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u139	There have always been socialist governments!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u140	We'll be here to see if the gentlemen. Members, who are always so worried about these things, will let there be business aside and debt losses to large companies with taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u141	Now! [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u142	We want to know what will be done. We want to guarantee that taxpayers' money will not be misused. [[PCP protests.]] Mrs Jamila Madeira says that the General Deposit Box has a relevant role in the economy and social and public responsibility. You certainly do, Mrs. Deputy. Again, the PSD has already said, and repeated, that it defends, as all the parties in this House — and at least something we agree — that the General Deposit Box should be kept as a public bank,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u143	Did they go back?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u144	...more so that the situation of the economy is still fragile and the private financial system also faces difficulties. So there is no doubt: we are not against the public property of the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u145	They're back!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u146	What we want to know is how much money they'll put there and what to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u148	And we want to know first, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not to regret the outcome, it is to prevent something worse from happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u150	Mr Paulino Ascenção once again said that we found millions to be well placed in the New Bank. I'm going to say again what has been said thousands of times: we haven't put taxpayers' money in the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u151	Now there's another lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u152	We didn't put taxpayers' money in the New Bank. [[Protests of the PCP and the MEP of BE Mariana Mortágua.]] The money placed on the New Bank is a loan to the financial system. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] If this majority resolves to forgive the financial system the loan,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u153	And get the taxpayers to pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u154	... are the gentlemen who put the cost on taxpayers. It's not us! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u155	Exactly! [[Protests of the PCP and the MEP of BE Mariana Mortágua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u156	Don't tell them now that they're going to give the money to the banks and that it was us who took it out to the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u157	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u158	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u159	Let it be said, from now on: we did not put this burden on taxpayers. If anyone puts it on, it'll be the gentlemen and the responsibility will be yours! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, one last note: the Banco de Portugal said that the problem had piled up. What leads to the accumulation of inequalities in the bank is the situation of the economy. You put your hands on your conscience, see what you have already done to the economy in just seven months, and see if you don't have much better ways to solve the problems of the bank and the country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u160	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers for interventions. Being this debate of the Socialist Party's initiative, if there are no more interventions...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u161	They've run out of words!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u162	The government didn't come!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u163	It is to see the interest of the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u164	There are those who want to participate in the debate, don't worry!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u165	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u166	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost three decades ago the privatization of the national bank was presented by its defenders and beneficiaries as a process full of advantages, fundamental to the modernization and development of our country. Life took care of dissembling them categorically. [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Abreu Amorim and CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]] Today it is evidence that the delivery of banks and also of insurers to large capital was a political option contrary to the interests of workers, businesses, the national economy and the country. These privatisations have withdrawn the leveraged State of economic, strategic and operational direction necessary for an economic and financial policy in accordance with national interests. The private bank, reconstituted from the privatisations of the public financial sector, served to increase the profits of the large shareholders, enrich more than a few families, extract the wealth from the productive sectors and direct it towards financial speculation, stop investment and state spending, encourage tax evasion, tax fraud and money laundering and promote the transfer to foreign national wealth. After pressing the banks, removing everything that can be removed, private shareholders leave the boat, leaving the taxpayers the charge to cover holes of billions of euros. In the face of the disaster that has represented for the country the destruction of the public financial sector and the creation of a private banking sector, what can be done? Some suggest that the problem lies in the poor supervision of the financial system and, consequently, that the solution would go through more and better supervision. They are those who, after the collapse of BPN and consequent strengthening of supervisory mechanisms, said « Never again! », that after the collapse of BES they said again « Never again! and that now, after the scandal of BANIF, they will not cease to cry out: « Never again! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u168	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u169	But the truth is, however, that, for more layers of supervision that are added, it is totally unable to prevent Portuguese from regularly being called to pay for the dismissals of private bankers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u170	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u171	Others, apparently naive, recognizing the deep limitations of supervision, attribute the problems of the bank to the lack of character of some bankers. By removing the ‘rotten fruit’ of banks’ administrations and appealing to the behaviour of bankers guided by the highest moral standards, the private bank, such as a magic pass, would become at the service of national interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u172	I haven't said anything yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u173	This is a perspective that has no adherence to reality, as well as the cases of BPN, BES and BANIF have well shown.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u174	Look at the windows!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u175	Others thought they had found a solution to the problems of the national financial sector in the European Union. But they did not have to wait long for the Banif case to show them, in addition to any doubt, that banking union has the objective, denounced by the CFP from the outset, of favoring the process of concentration and centralisation of the bank at the level of the European Union, placing it under the control of the large continental financial groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u176	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u177	in the specific case of BANIF, the European institutions decided that this bank, after ‘clean’ and ready to surrender, would be handed over to a Spanish mega bank. As for the invoice, of course, it was passed to Portuguese taxpayers. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u178	Who supports this government?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u179	The solution to the problems of the national financial system is not the strengthening of supervision, the moralisation of bankers or the surrender of decision-making power to the institutions of the European Union. The solution passes, as the CFP has always been defending, for the public control of currency, credit and other essential financial activities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The financial system is too important for the development of the country so that it can be in the hands and service of the great capital. The need to consolidate the banking system and to contain systemic risks, to ensure effective supervision of the bank, to stop financial speculation, to channel national savings and financial resources to a productive investment and to defend national sovereignty requires public control of the financial system. That is the way we should go. That is the way in which national interest imposes. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u180	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u181	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, on the parliamentary committee of inquiry to the General Deposit Board, that you did not speak, it is not worth aligning with the language that we want to join in the Government's negotiations with the European Commission, that we want to weaken and weaken the Portuguese financial system, that we want to address the public nature of the General Deposit Board and, much less, that we want to destroy the General Deposit Board. What we want, honourable Member, is to generate confidence in the Portuguese financial system, to generate confidence in the Portuguese banking system and to generate confidence in the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u182	You know everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u183	And that, Mr. Paulo Sá, does not pity with opacity, with cover, with indefinition and with a slightness in the management of the public thing, which has so far happened. That is why, Mr President, I will ask very simple questions. Could it be that using 4000, 5000, 6000, 7000, 8000 million euros of taxpayer tax money is an insignificant amount for the PCP, for the PS, for the Block or for the Greens? Don't you want to know what happened in the General Deposit Box?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u184	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u185	Don't you want to clear out responsibilities? Oh, my God! Don't you want to know things as simple as if someone made the wrong decisions, if someone made the Levian decisions and, perhaps, criminals? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u186	To reply, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u187	Mr. President, Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, is known the PSD's intention to privatize the General Deposit Box, delivering it to private interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u188	Oh, my God! Look at the window!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u189	You are now saying no, but it has always been your goal,... [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u190	... in particular while they have been in the government for the last four and a half years... [[Objective of whom?Oh, my God!]] [[Objective of whom?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u191	... of the PSD and CDS —, privatize the General Deposit Box, delivering it to private interests, and everything they did to weaken it. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, we do not feed your strategy of strangling the public bank. We do not agree with the committee of inquiry, we will participate in its work, but also to clarify your responsibilities in the situation in the General Deposit Box. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u192	For an intervention representing the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u193	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, at this final stage of the debate which has been promoted today by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I must confess my perplexity: I could not see what the real objective of marking this debate was. Otherwise, let's see, Mr. President and Mrs. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the presence of the one whom I consider to be the most flagrant failure of the parliamentary initiative. [[PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares' laughter.]] The Socialist Party marked a debate—it marked it out of hours, say it passed, should have marked it last week, but only marked it this week—publicly announced it was about the General Deposit Box and then the requirement says it is only about the financial system. It comes to the debate to admit to exposing the deepest disorientation and deconcentration that stands in the heads of parliamentarians and the leaders of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u194	You don't know what to say about the financial system. I thought you came to this debate to give the answers that the Portuguese wanted to see by the Socialist Party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Members of the PS, it is a bit of political masochism that is more likely to be permanently showing this lack of capacity. So you mark the debate to clarify and do not clarify anything, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! It's a little too much, don't you think? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] from this point of view, it was so disinteresting that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group could not bring the Government to the debate. I could at least use this legislative agenda of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to bring the Government to Parliament and give the answers. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, will we reach the end of the debate, which you have marked, on the financial system and on the General Deposit Box and continue without knowing the amount of the recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box? Oh, my God! Will we continue without knowing what is the basis for the assumption that this amount will be 2000, 3000, 4000, 5000, 6000 million? Oh, my God! It's a lot of money, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! Money that is from all of us, is from the taxpayers, who are, in fact, the shareholders of the General Deposit Box. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u195	Do you mark the debate and not answer that? Oh, my God! What is the restructuring plan they have for the General Deposit Box? What are you gonna do to the counters? What will they do to the human resources of the General Deposit Box? How will the banking operation of the General Deposit Box be based? Do you see this debate, which they have marked, and do not answer these questions, which are essential for our country today? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is really a failed but complete act! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was expected, at least, that by not giving all the answers, we could understand the strategy...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u196	Calm down! Calm down! There is still a need for intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u197	Ah, there's still a lack of intervention! Well, there is no final intervention and then they have kept the main dish to the end. [[They're still going to say!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u198	We'll wait, we're already full of expectations! Mr. João Paulo Correia, we are full of hope. Then it'll be, won't it? Then it'll be! Let's all hear it. Let us then take advantage of this opportunity. But the gentlemen. Members could have given a signal, they could have shown what the strategy was, they didn't. They did something even worse, they came to apologize, saying that the country's economic and financial situation is going to stop! , is from economic recovery 2011 to 2015! We already knew that Mr. Prime Minister has, in fact, a stripper who has no limit. Come, as he came, say that this government was born to confront and resolve misfortunes...! Oh, my God! It is not to be at least seen, it is not to be at least respecting the effort that so many and so many thousands of Portuguese have made in recent years, after having reached the most serious financial situation that Portugal has experienced in recent decades. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] It needs a lot of dust. It is indeed necessary to have no regard for the effort that people have made to come here to invoke this heritage as responsible for the economic and financial situation. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, when the previous government ceased to function, the economy was growing... [[Was he growing up?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u199	...and it was growing much more than it is now. [[I was growing up!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u200	When the former government ceased to function, unemployment was declining and employment was creating. When the previous government ceased to function, the investment was growing. [[PS protests.]] Do you want to compare the misery of the inheritance that you received, even losing the elections, with the misfortune of the inheritance that Portugal and the PSD/CDS government received in 2011 when there were only debts to pay, when there was only deficit, when there was total uncontrollable administration? Oh, my God! Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a sense of reality! [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u201	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u202	I shall end, Mr President, by launching now this challenge which you have given me. Mrs. Members, then, take advantage of the latest interventions to say what they want for the financial system, to say how they will proceed to the recapitalization of the General Deposit Box and, now, to explain why they were afraid that the General Deposit Box had a parliamentary commission of inquiry and why they are afraid that external and independent audits will be carried out to manage the General Deposit Box and Banif. Explain who wants to protect and why they are so afraid that the Portuguese know the truth. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u203	Although Mr Luís Montenegro has no time to answer, he has the floor to ask for clarification, Mr João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u204	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, we reject this speech on the 'flash' of your responsibilities in the problems and difficulties of the Portuguese financial and banking sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You were responsible for three capital sins. First, in 2011 you thought it was enough to change government to solve the problems of the Portuguese financial sector, and you failed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2011 you felt that the fault of the difficulties of the Portuguese financial sector was the state, but it was not, it was an international financial crisis and later you came to recognize it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u205	The second capital sin that you committed against the Portuguese financial sector was your violent austerity policy, because it triggered unemployment, emigration, brutally cut income and raised taxes. This led to an increase in non-compliance with credit and led again to a crisis in the banking sector and in the financial sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And the third capital sin, Mr Deputy, was to hide the truth from the Portuguese, as you did with BES and BANIF.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u206	You guys haven't done anything else in six months!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u207	In fact, Mr João Almeida speaks of the CDS, because Mrs Assumption Cristos, in her last interview as CDS leader, to an economic newspaper, the Journal of Business, said that never was discussed in the Council of Ministers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Has the former Minister of Finance already clarified the current leader of the CDS, her former colleague of the Council of Ministers, former Minister of Agriculture? It is that you had a letter, a recommendation from the European Commission to intervene in BANIF by March 2015 and made the table of that recommendation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u208	Raising board? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u209	You've hidden the truth from the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, the difficulties we have in the financial sector are yours and your sole responsibility. It is also necessary to say the following: The Memorandum of Troika had three pillars, one of which was the strengthening and consolidation of the banking and financial sectors. You put EUR 12 billion in the banking sector, thinking that they would solve the problem of the banking sector, but they did not solve it. Is it legitimate for the Portuguese to conclude that you have failed to strengthen and consolidate the banking and financial sectors? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u210	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Today the financial system is indeed a threat to the budgetary and macroeconomic stability of our countries. And the truth is that people, not only from Portugal but also from other European countries, have been called to pay for the losses that the financial system did not want, do not want and will not want to take. And it is on behalf of this justice for the Portuguese people that, over and over, has been called upon to pay the losses of the bank, that we have the obligation and duty to tell Mr Schäuble, Minister of Finance, that, whenever Mr Schäuble... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do not speak so loudly to defend the German Minister of Finance! Take it easy! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Take it easy! Mrs. Members, the Portuguese Parliament and its Members have the right to reply to the German Minister of Finance when he defames Portugal. You have that right! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u212	If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is your problem, but do not prevent anyone from doing so. We have an obligation to say that Mr Schäuble, whenever he is asked about the worst state in which Deutsche Bank is, believes that he must defame Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u214	We did that when we were in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u215	...you understand that you should use Portugal as an scapegoat to never answer about the problems of your own bank. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We must tell the German Minister of Finance that this is not acceptable and that it is shameful that a minister from another State, who is no less than Portugal, does not hesitate to sow chaos and crisis in neighbouring countries just because his pre-power has convinced him that he could do so and, more importantly, that he could use our country to divert attention from his country's problems. And this is unacceptable. [[Congratulations from BE.]] If the PSD and CDS understand that this is acceptable, it is proof of what they have done to Portugal in the last four years. The position of the German Minister gives us good insight into Europe's position on banking in Portugal. Nothing has changed in the operation of the bank, despite the promises after the crisis. Nothing was done to solve the fragility of the banking system. Nothing has been done to avoid bankruptcy, but the truth is that Portugal has lost its ability to decide what to do when a bank goes bankrupt. Banking union is a failure. There will be no cost sharing, because Mr German Finance Minister will never allow cost sharing. What we have is the Portuguese taxpayers paying for decisions taken by the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the German Finance Minister. And this is unacceptable. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are obliged to answer one question: what is the country's strategy in view of this? We have to answer. We need to think about the banking system. I know that for years we were disappointed at doing so because the PSD and the CDS had no strategy, they were just doing what was supposed to be the European Commission's strategy. [[PSD protests.]] What do we want for the General Deposit Box? It's a public bank for what? Under what conditions?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u216	Ask the PS! It's the PS who has to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u217	Are we willing to lose control of the national banking decision-making centres? Are we willing to accept the consequences in terms of loss of sovereignty? What are we doing to prevent new bubbles, particularly in real estate? How are we gonna deal with the bastard? How are we going to deal with the inequalities? How are we going to deal with capital problems? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] All these questions need answers. The Block presented a response to all of them: we believe that the public control of the bank is important; we believe it is important to clean the balance sheets; we want transparency and, therefore, we proposed a draft resolution recommending an audit to the General Deposit Box, and I hope you will. Members of the PSD and the CDS have the opportunity to vote in favour. in which we do not align it is in committees of inquiry to processes that have not yet happened, because this is investigating the future, which is a little bit complicated to do. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u218	It's another instrument...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u219	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u220	I will finish, Mr. President. These are the answers of the Left Block. PSD has no answer. In fact, the answer is: « No problem », « Leave to walk », « Under the carpet », « Nothing has happened », « The bank is better », « We buried our head in the sand and may no one see ». But the Socialist Party also has a lot to clarify. For example, I need to clarify the recapitalisation amounts of the Box. It is not by chance that people want to know—and they have the right to know! -,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u221	...and an answer must be given as to the recapitalisation amounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u222	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u223	We need to clarify — and I will finish, Mr President — what we are going to do with the inequalities, we need to clarify the model of resolution. This debate is too important to have no answers or clear positions. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u224	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a fact that, for the one who would supposedly be the objective of the Socialist Party, this debate was a failed act, but it has a huge virtue: if it is not minimally revealing on the subject of the debate, which would be the General Deposit Box, it is very revealing on the majority that supports the Government of Portugal, and is very revealing on the part of the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party wants to talk about the financial sector and what is happening in this sector. So let's talk about three examples of what happened in the financial sector over the last six months. First example: BANIF. BANIF had a national shareholder structure and had a process that was under discussion with the European institutions. What happened to Banif? It was delivered to Santander in highly advantageous conditions! This did not happen in the previous government, it happened by decision of the Government of the Socialist Party and would not have happened without the PCP and the Left Block. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u226	We voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u227	You voted against the amendment, but it was you who made it possible for the government to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u228	We voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u229	So it's not worth running away. [[BE's protests.]] In fact, the Left Block has become a political paradise: « lava» all the negative initiatives of the Socialist Party, « lava» all the inconsistencies of the Socialist Party, « lava» all the errors of the Socialist Party. The Left Block is not a party, it is a «Laundry». It is a political "laundry"... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[BE's protests.]] ... which is intended, solely and exclusively, to cover the failure of the Socialist Party's governance. And the PCP, honor be made to him, did not turn into a laundry room, just to stay in the past, which does not admire us, because the PCP has always lived in the past and continues to live in the past. The CFP completely ignores the reality, ignores that it is the Socialist Party that governs, ignores that it was the CFP that made this government viable, ignores that banks that had public capital are delivered not only from private capital as from other sources — it must be what they call "left patriotism" —, ignores all this. The Left Block and the PCP ignore the fact that the Government of the Socialist Party has been 'buying' a public bank for six months, which is no reason for divergence between the parties of this House — as much as you would like to make this clear to try to cover up the reality — which is a reason for divergence is the Socialist Party's total inability to deal with the situation. The PS cannot replace an administration. The administration is leaving slowly, weakening the Bank, and the Socialist Party cannot appoint a new administration and cannot have a management plan, and the shareholder's mission is to define a management plan for a bank. The shareholder not only does not have administration as he has no management plan, and let all this instability be generated with the General Deposit Box because six months ago he has not been able to solve the problem. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u230	As serious as this is not only to be completely incompetent, totally incompetent, but also to be unable to respond to the supervision, which this Parliament has the power to make, on the political decisions that the government makes. Let all speculation take place and, once again, today, it does not clarify anything at all. Today, it would be time for us to know what the Minister of Finance did not clarify at a press conference. In other words, if there is a change in governance, we only know that there will be more administrators and that they will win more, we know absolutely nothing about changing the governance model. We know that there will be more and that there will be more—this must be what fills the PCP and the Left Block. About recapitalization, we know it's more than necessary. We probably know that recapitalization is not a strategic decision of the shareholder, it is a requirement of the management team, and that makes the shareholder caught by management, which is one of the biggest governance mistakes. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u231	And that is exactly what you say at the first point that you want to solve and that in the second point they are immediately making a mistake, which is to be completely captured by the management team. Third example, you are not at least able to explain what this management plan is, what will be the General Deposit Box, because, if the General Deposit Box follows the path that seems to be being negotiated with Brussels, then we are following a strategy, which is the one advocated by the Prime Minister, which is that of banking concentration in two large blocks, in which the weakening that you are making of the General Deposit Box benefits the other block to which you have already had the opportunity, during this governance, to offer BANIF. This strategy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, she's omise and wrong. In addition, you, with the « laundry» accompanying them, try to hide everything that happens from the Portuguese. It is not worth saying that there are future events or past events. The General Deposit Box, unfortunately, has many past facts that deserve scrutiny and have present, not future, facts that deserve scrutiny. The current process is not a future process; the future is a possible capitalisation decision, but it will only be a decision based on a whole process, which is currently under way and which should be voted on by this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u232	I ask you to conclude, Mr. João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u233	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why we have an obligation to conclude in this debate which, once again, the Socialist Party has tried to mislead this Parliament and public opinion. There is no clarification, nor is there any knowledge of what is happening, unless we, as we have referred to, a committee of inquiry so that once and for all you and the 'Laundries' accompanying them are responsible for what they are doing to the General Deposit Box and to the Country. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u234	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u235	Is it for an intervention, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u236	No, Mr. President, it is, in appeal to the Bureau,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u237	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u238	... request the distribution of a document.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u239	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u240	In view of the fact that « laundry » CDS is attempting to rewrite the story as regards the vote on the recapitalisation of BANIF, I ask the Bureau to send the vote on this bill, where it is clearly indicated that the Left Block voted against the recapitalisation of BANIF. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u241	The results of the votes are available to everyone in the electronic information available to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u242	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u243	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u244	Mr President, my request is the same but with a different objective: the distribution of this document proves that it is not the CFP that it is a 'laundry' of responsibilities from whoever it is, the CDS is seeking to 'wash' its responsibilities with the votes it now takes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u245	No, no! We voted against too!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u246	Mr President, we are not going to intervene on this issue now. This document is available to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u247	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u248	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u249	Mr President, also in appeal to the Bureau, it is to say that the CDS voted against, remains against and not 'wash' absolutely nothing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u250	Mrs. Members, the results of the votes are all available on the website of the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the PSD and the CDS have tried, here, to convince the Portuguese that the problems of BANIF, the problems of Caixa and, in fact, the problems of the financial system, many of them still unknown of the Portuguese generality, arose one day to another. It was all very well and suddenly there are billions of euros to solve in the financial system. This was the thesis that they tried to sell us during those four years when they went to scramble the wages of the Portuguese and to destroy their rights to make us believe that they were solving central problems of our economy. in fact, not only did they solve them — they hid them under the carpet — as they allowed these problems to worsen, and we hope that they will be responsible for these political options to favour the large economic groups and the large shareholders of the bank, who, while these capital needs were piled up, were always distributing the remaining capital in the form of unpaid credits. Mrs. Members, there is a fundamental issue which has been brought to this debate by all parties: the General Deposit Box. I would like to make it clear that on the part of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, the General Deposit Box will deserve to be defended against the attacks of the PSD and the CDS. And it is not worth the PSD to say that it does not want to privatize the Box, when in 2011 it announced, as its proposal, privatization, not only did it detail as it took up steps to do so while it was government, by capitalizing the Box with convertible capital instruments. Anyway, he took steps to privatize the Box and never denied that intention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u252	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u253	I will finish, Mr. President. But it is also necessary to defend Box — not only the PSD and CDS and the intention to privatize — from blackmail that has been imposed on the Portuguese and Portuguese States for the conditions relating to public aid and for considerations on public aid to banks. On the other hand, it must be said that, in the case of Caixa, the State being the shareholder, the Portuguese shareholders, should be the Portuguese and the Portuguese state defining the objectives of this capitalisation and should not at any time accept that there is more capital to be less Cash. They should not accept that the Portuguese State is called upon to place more capital for the reduction of the Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u254	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u255	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, that would be nothing more than to be injecting capital into the Box so that Box would leave business to other banks, which would be an indirect aid to private banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u256	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u257	Mr President, I conclude by saying that the situation in the Portuguese financial system well demonstrates that the public control of the bank is absolutely fundamental. It is not enough condition, but it is the necessary condition. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u258	For an intervention, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u259	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, during today's debate there is something that is obvious: the Socialist Party considers, wanted to debate, the state of the Portuguese financial system. In this Chamber, the Socialist Party wanted to talk, dialogue, discuss with the representatives of the Portuguese people the situation reached by the Portuguese financial system after Portugal had episodes such as those of BPN, BPP, BES, BANIF, and even after having had a foreign bank announcing the exit of Portugal and / or significantly reducing its activity in the Portuguese economy. In view of this initiative of the Socialist Party, the parliamentary right only asks the question: what will they do to the General Deposit Box? They can start by answering your own question, asking Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, because he in 2015 said he wanted to receive 900 million euros of CoCo and yesterday said that it was necessary to put 2500 million and that 2500 million was enough. Mrs. Members, the difference is EUR 3400 million, almost 2 % of GDP! The answer to your question was given by your own leader. You left the General Deposit Box without capital, without complying with the regulatory capital for the conditions imposed from 1 January 2017. You have left the General Deposit Box in a fragile situation, there is a border of privatization that you wanted to do, but you have changed your mind. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The gentlemen. Members have talked about failed acts, but you need to go to the diva. They need to go to the diva, because they come here and say, surprisingly, that they want to inquire. They want to inquire because there may be crimes with regard to the General Deposit Box. Crimes! But you have been a government for four years! You have been a government for four years and now you want an audit and an inquiry committee when you have been protected for four years. And this Parliament has not known and knows now no practice in the General Deposit Box that deserves to be the subject of a committee of inquiry. You need to go to the divian, too, for another reason: because you want to make a cut in history. They want to start solving the problems of the financial system as from 26 November 2015, as if between 2011 and 2015 nothing had happened in this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was four years. And four years later, taxpayers continue to pay the bill, including the bill of your political options. This is because, when, in this Chamber, Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho said the recipe was "austerity, whatever it costs"... [[PSD MP Miguel Morgado's protests.]] Mr. Miguel Morgano, don't you want to hear? You don't like what you're hearing? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of PSD Members, beating hands on the benches.]] Mr President, as regards the revenue of « austerity, at all costs », announced here at this government forum by Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, do you know what it means? More insolvency! More company bankruptcy! More failure of families! But bad credit! More credit at risk! More trouble in the banks! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] To conclude, I would like to say that we have seen a new thesis presented today by Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque. It is that the government cannot apologize to Angola, Brazil or Brexit.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u260	I would ask you to synthesize it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u261	This is because, it seems, for the PSD bench, Angola, Brazil, China and Brexit did not happen, these are not events that disturb the normal governance of a country. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] The thesis is now that the international crisis has ended for this government, but it was justified for your government to apply cuts and austerity beyond the troika. It is not reasonable, it is not serious, from this political point of view! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u262	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u263	Mr. President, I will conclude. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if today this debate has been a failed act, it is because the right has failed and has not come to the debate to assume its responsibilities for four years of governance. [[PS Applause]] [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u264	We have reached the end of the first item on our agenda, the debate on the financial system. Before we move on to the next point, Mrs. Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs. Emilia Santos, will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u265	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and the following initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 26 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Allocation of insularity allowance to the elements of the security forces and services placed in the Autonomous Region of the Azores ( ALRAA ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; drafts of lein.o 273 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Grants the right to the old-age pension to workers who have begun working before they are 16 years old and who are 40 years of discount ( BE ), which falls to 4. the Commission, and 274 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 49 / 2014 of 27 March regulating Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System ), and establishes the regime applicable to the organization and operation of judicial courts ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; and draft resolutions Nos 395 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the development of a study and a manual of good practices for the homes of the elderly, the strengthening of social security supervision for these institutions and the strengthening of public responses to the level of continued care and home support for the elderly ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 396 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Status of funding for vocational training for people with disabilities ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 397 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to mitigate the effects of emerging risks on contamination of waste water ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 398 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Promotion of a change to the layout envisaged for the extension of A32, as well as the elimination of current conditions in the same ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 399 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure the stopping of freight trains in the Alentejo, in particular in Évora, New Sales and Marble Area ( Estremoz, Borba and Vila Viçosa ) ( PSD ), below 6. the Commission, 400 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to allow the creation of the hydraulic circuit of Reg rounds of Monsaraz ( connection to the alqueva album ) ( PSD ), down to 7. the Commission, and 407 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures to protect and support people with fibromyalgia ( BE ) below 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u266	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system for this purpose. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 196 meetings, to which MEPs Bruno Dias, the PCP, Isabel Moreira, the PS, and Sandra Pereira, the PSD, who failed to register electronically, which makes 199 Members present, so we have the quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting No 106 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Despite the death of the Luso-Brazilian citizen Francisco Ivens de Sá Dias Branco ( PSD ). I ask Secretary Emília Santos to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u267	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last June 24, in São Paulo, 81 years old, the entrepreneur Francisco Ivens de Sá Dias Branco. White Days, as was known, fully embodied the condition of Luso-Brazilian citizen, uniting, culturally and economically, the two Countries and the two peoples. Son of Manuel Dias Branco, natural of Angela, Aveiro district, was able to create in Brazil a true economic empire that made him a leader in the production of pasta food and biscuits throughout South America. succeeding his father in conducting family business, he created a real economic group from Fortaleza, which includes 14 industrial units, 25 distribution centers and more than 13 000 employees throughout the Brazilian territory. White Days never hid their relationship with Portugal and very particularly with the Aveiro region, where it was important to travel each year together with the most diverse members of the family. Such a relationship with our country and its visibility in the business world and in the Luso-Brazilian society justified the tribute that was recently paid to it by the President of the Republic, Cavaco Silva, who distinguished it with the degree of the Great Officer of the Industrial Merit Order of the Portuguese Republic. For all these reasons, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, approves a vote of regret for the death of Francisco Ivens de Sá Dias Branco and presents his condolences to his family. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u268	We shall vote on vote No 106 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) the PSD, which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 109 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of former Deputy Manuel Lencastre and Menezes de Figueiredo ( PS ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u269	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last June 28, 2016, at 88 years of age, Manuel Lencastre and Menezes Sousa Figueiredo. He was born in Porto on September 6, 1928, but it was in Vila Nova Gaia that he settled very early, adopting this city as his own, and there lived most of his life. He devoted his whole life to his city of adoption — Vila Nova de Gaia — of which he became a truly emblematic figure and in which he left at the time of his disappearance a trail of deep respect, admiration and longing. He was the manager of the Portuguese company Radio Marconi and Portugal Telecom, where he was professionally distinguished, demonstrating his leadership capacity, being respected by all those who worked with him. He joined the Socialist Party shortly after 25 April in 1974, where he was a prominent militant, playing various roles in the national, district and local structure, always assuming himself as a man of ideas, frontal, of a great character, facts that made him an incontrovertible and charismatic figure that served as inspiration to so many of us. He was elected a Member of the Assembly of the Republic in the Parliament on 25 April 1976, where he affirmed himself in the defense of the most disadvantaged, leaving his mark on the creation of the social pass for the elderly, and contributed to the consolidation of the young democracy at the time of full affirmation of the values of April. The spirit of humility and service presents itself as striking traits of all public and political life. He was President of the Freguesia de Oliveira do Douro Assembly and President of the Municipal Assembly of Vila Nova de Gaia, positions that he performed with fairness and impartiality that the function requires. As president of the municipal assembly, he was one of the most prominent autocratics who fought for the dignity of office, as well as for the role of the municipal assemblies, having participated in a national movement, with a view to strengthening the power and powers of this local administration body. He was the first president of the Port Metropolitan Assembly, also committed to the affirmation of this new regional power structure. in his last years of life, he always expressed the liveliness that characterized him and maintained his civic intervention in the development of projects in the institutions he represented. Manuel Lencastre Menezes Sousa Figueiredo left and left a hard void to fill. at this time of mourning, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, joins all those who mourn the loss of this greater name of public and political life and address the family of Manuel Lencastre and Menezes Sousa Figueiredo the most sorry condolences».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u270	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on vote No 109 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) PS, which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, before we move to vote No 111 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Of condemnation and regret for the attack in Istanbul ( President of RA, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ), I inform the House that the Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey, Ebru Baroutçu Gökdenizler, together with the First Counsellor of the Zeynep Kaleli Embassy, is present in the Diplomatic Gallery. I ask the Secretary Idália to read vote No 111 / XIII ( 1. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u271	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last night on June 28, Turkey, Europe and the world were surprised by a terrible attack at Ataturk International Airport, one of the most moving in Europe. Victiming 42 citizens of different nationalities and leaving more than two hundred wounded, the explosions in Istanbul have already been claimed by Daesh, thus adding to other attacks in the recent past, which, although for various reasons, have always been against peace, freedom and democracy. This barbarous attack obliges us to give urgent thought to how to respond to the multiple configurations of terrorism, which requires not only the fight against its causes (political, economic and social), but also the defence and affirmation of the values of freedom and democracy. Increasingly without borders, without faces other than those of their own victims, the terrorist threat constitutes one of the greatest challenges facing modern society, summoning it, and all its energy, to a struggle that will always have one and one objective: the intransigent defense of the values of the state of democratic law. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its unequivocal and vehement condemnation of the attack in Istanbul and expresses the feelings of its deep sorrow to the families of the victims, the authorities and the Turkish people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u272	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read out. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to vote No 107 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Welcoming the signing of the ceasefire agreement between Colombia and the FARC ( PSD and CDS-PP ). I ask Secretary Emília Santos to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u273	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last Thursday, June 23, a historic agreement was signed for a bilateral and definitive ceasefire between the Government of Colombia and the Revolutionary Forces of Colombia ( FARC ). This agreement, signed in Havana by the President of Colombia, Juan Manuel Santos, and by the FARC commander, Timoleón Jiménez, puts an end to a conflict that has lasted for more than five decades and has had a devastating impact on the country. In fact, the important understanding that has now been achieved is of enormous importance, because it has put an end to a prolonged conflict that has caused more than 260 000 dead, almost 80 000 missing and has created about 6 million refugees within their own country. It was important, at a time when the international system is experiencing moments of great turbulence, that others could follow this same path of peace and dialogue to put an end also to other conflicts that destroy international peace. This is an example that shows us that it is really possible to find ways of resolution that go beyond armed violence. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, therefore decides: Welcome the signing of the Havana Agreement between Colombia and the FARC, recognizing its importance for the country to live in peace from here forward; Expressing its strong desire that the peace now achieved in Colombia may serve as an example for the resolution of other still latent conflicts in the international system; Recognize the work and the importance of the mediation of Cuba and Norway to achieve this Agreement. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u274	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 108 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Congratulations for the 40 years on the political autonomy of the Azores and Madeira ( PSD ). I ask Secretary Emília Santos to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u275	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on 27 June 1976, the first regional legislative elections were held in the Azores and Madeira. This date is a milestone in the history of Portuguese democracy and in the history of the political autonomy of the two autonomous regions. for the first time, the population of the Azores and Madeira was called to choose their own government organs. for the first time in Portugal, substantially political powers were conferred on regional bodies with holders not designated by the central power. The political and administrative autonomy of the autonomous regions has been an ambitious achievement for centuries, but it was only possible with the establishment of democracy, which began in the Revolution of 25 April 1974, and with the decisive contribution of the Constituent Assembly, which opened the way for the political and administrative autonomy of the island regions to be enshrined in the Portuguese Constitution of 1976, allowing the Azorians and the Madeirans to trace their own future, gaining the freedom to choose their destination, in accordance with the specificities and interests of their population. The consecration of autonomy was crucial for the Azorians and for the Maderians, as it represented a significant advance in their living conditions and in the development of the two autonomous regions. Over the past four decades on the achievement of regional autonomy, the progress and progress made in those two regions is clearly visible. With the consolidation of the autonomous process, autonomous regions have ceased to be conditioned by centralizing policies, and they have been recognized as a regional identity which guarantees the ability to decide the best for their inhabitants, taking into account their geographical, economic, social and cultural characteristics. Commemorating the 40 years of autonomy is to enhance the decisive role of civil society and the courage and determination of the Azorians and Madeirans in the conquest of their political and administrative freedom. It is with the feeling of duty to fulfil, but also with the determination to achieve new political, economic and social standards, that autonomy needs everyone for their evolution. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes the 40 years of the consecration of political and administrative autonomy in the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira and welcomes the Azorians and the Madeirans for development and for the results achieved after four decades of autonomy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u276	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 110 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Congratulations for the 40 years of the first regional elections ( PS ). I would ask Secretary Idália to proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u277	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On 27 June 1976 the first legislative elections were held for the Regional Assemblys of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira. We celebrate this year the 40 years of this event whose relevance is associated with the best achievements of Portuguese democracy and which, by generating a legitimate and proximity governance, founded on historical aspirations of the island peoples, was decisive for the economic and social development of both regions. in fact, the first regional elections, held following 25 April 1974, the inclusion of the political autonomy of the Azores and Madeira in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic of 1976 and the approval of the provisional statutes of the political-administrative regimes proper to the island regions, mark the beginning of their own institutional life in both regions, providing them with the ability to decide in areas of their interests. On 25 April 1974, in the case of the Azores and Madeira, the administration had little attention to the distance and misunderstanding from there resulting and always far from the provision of the most basic needs and rights. With all the accidents that marked the first two years of the Revolution, the journey had the huge positive balance of having been conquered in it democracy and self-government, institutional recognition, including as active subjects at the external level, and called for the need to change the economic direction and the social situation. Without prejudice to the shortcomings that are still being observed today, the Azorians and the Maderians, such as the generality of Portuguese, recognize in the autonomous virtual processes that have been and are decisive for the positive transformations that have occurred in the past four decades. Therefore, and being autonomous a national project, we all have reasons to give them the recognition they deserve. Thus, under the applicable regulations and constitutional provisions, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes all the Azorians and all the Maderians, recalls the 40 years of autonomous life since the holding of elections to the governing bodies of the regions and reiterates its commitment to defend the political and legislative autonomys of the Azores and Madeira. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u278	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 406 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to France ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we now have to vote on a number of requests submitted by the PCP, BE and PS respectively, requesting the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without voting, for a period of 90 days, of the projects of lein.o 231 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish the Freguesian Replacement Scheme ( PCP ) and 272 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the extraordinary process of restoration of ferries extinct by Law No 11 -A / 2013 of 28 January ( BE ) and draft resolution No 393 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of the competences of the parish and the evaluation of the territorial reorganization of the parish ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u279	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u280	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u281	Mr President, before these requests which you have announced, there is another, submitted by BE, within the meaning of Bill No 94 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — eliminates the obligation to present the unemployed for the fortnight (amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2006, 3 November 2006 ) ( BE) to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a vote, for a period of 20 days, that we would like it to be included in this package of requests.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u282	You're right, sir. Therefore, we shall vote together four applications, two submitted by BE, one by the PCP and one by the PS, requesting the discharge of the respective commissions without a vote of Bill No 94/ XIII ( 1 ). ( BE ), 231 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 272 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( BE) and draft resolution No 393 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PS ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Once the requirements have been approved, Bill No. 94 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) down to the Committee on Labour and Social Security and the projects of lein. 231 and 272 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and draft resolution No 393 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) go down to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing. We shall vote on draft resolution No 261 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to verify the presence of glyphosate residues in water and in agricultural products of plant origin (NAP). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 314 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the merger of pet identification databases — SIRA and SICAFE(PAN) ( text amended by the author ). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 325 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to improve control of plant protection products and promote their sustainable implementation ( CFP ). First we shall vote on points 1 and 2 and then on points 3 and 4. Let us vote on points 1 and 2. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on points 3 and 4. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 115 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate revocation of all contracts for the granting of prospecting rights, research, development and production of oil (NAP).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u283	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u284	Mr President, we are in the middle of the voting process and cannot interrupt unless it is to contribute to the effectiveness of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u285	Mr President, we have asked to separate the vote from points 1 and 2 of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u286	this draft NAP resolution?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u287	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u288	But this information did not reach the Bureau. There's nothing asked for and now it's no time...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u289	I was convinced that the request had been delivered, Mr President. So there must have been a lapse.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u290	Let us then vote on draft resolution No 115 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate revocation of all contracts for the granting of prospecting rights, research, development and production of oil (NAP). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 132 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — immediate suspension of the processes for the granting, exploitation and extraction of oil and gas in the Algarve ( BE ). [[Pause.]] I have just been informed that, also with regard to this draft resolution, some points have been requested to be disaggregated. However, I had the information that the request for breakdown had been made for diplomas to be voted on below. What is the breakdown they ask for? [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u291	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u292	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u293	Mr President, you have entered the Bureau, and it has been distributed to parliamentary groups, a request from the PS, signed by Mr Luís Graça, to request the separate vote of paragraphs 1 and 2 of draft resolution No 132 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u294	But the Bureau does not have that information. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u295	Mr President, this request is closed by the Bureau and has been distributed to the Members of the various parliamentary committees.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u296	So there was a confusion and I thought that the breakdown had been required in relation to another diploma and not to that which we are now going to vote on. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u297	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u298	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u299	Mr President, the information I have is that the request I made, in order to be voted separately on points 1 and 2 of draft resolution No 115 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) has been distributed to all benches. I would like you to confirm whether or not the request came to the Bureau as I entered the office. In any case, the request is stamped by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u300	In this way, we will then vote again on draft resolution No 115/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate revocation of all contracts for the granting of prospecting rights, research, development and production of oil (NAP).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u301	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u302	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, if it is to facilitate the work, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u303	Mr President, we request that we be granted 1 minute to be able to decompose and analyse the points of draft resolution No 115 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u304	Of course, Mr. Deputies. In the meantime, we shall vote on draft resolution No 132 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — by the immediate suspension of the processes for the granting, exploitation and extraction of oil and gas in the Algarve ( BE ) for which a request was made to vote separately on points 1 and 2. Let's start by voting point 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, point 1 of the draft resolution of the Left Block was approved... Mr. Hélder Amaral ( CDS-PP ). — I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u305	Please, Mr. Hélder Amaral. Mr. Hélder Amaral ( CDS-PP ). — Mr President, taking into account the information you have given, which draft resolution is from the Left Block, our bank votes against. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u306	The Bureau notes this interesting situation... Accordingly, point 1 of draft resolution No 132 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) was approved with votes against PSD and CDS-PP and votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN. We shall proceed to the vote on point 2 of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall now vote point 1 of draft resolution No 115 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate revocation of all contracts for the granting of prospecting rights, research, development and production of oil (NAP). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on point 2 of draft resolution No 115 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand why it was requested that the two points be voted on separately, but maybe someone can explain it to me...! The vote on points 1 and 2 was taken in the same way and was rejected. On the one hand, I would ask the parliamentary groups to submit their requests in advance and, on the other hand, to the departments which deliver the documents to the Bureau so that it is not floating because of lack of information. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 307 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by assessing environmental risks and impact on other economic activities resulting from exploration, research, development and production of oil and/or natural gas in Algarve and Costa Alentejana ( PCP ), for which the separate vote was requested from points 1 to 4, point 5 and finally point 6. Let us then vote on points 1 to 4. [[When put to the vote, the votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP were adopted and the CDS-PP abstained.]] We shall vote on point 5. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, The Greens and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PS and the PCP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall vote on point 6. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE and PAN were rejected, votes against the PS, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 376 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Monitoring and monitoring of hydrocarbon exploration and research processes in Algarve and Costa Alentejana ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 385 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the suspension of contracts for prospecting, research, development and production of oil and gas in the Alentejana and Costa Alentejana (The Greens). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 389 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government evaluate current oil exploration, research, development and production contracts in Alentejana and adopt follow-up mechanisms ( PS ) for which we must break down points 3 and 4 on the one hand and points 1, 2 and 5 on the other. Let's start by voting points 3 and 4. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us vote on points 1, 2 and 5. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, The Greens and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PS and the PCP and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u307	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u308	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u309	Mr President, to announce that members of the Socialist Party elected by the Faro electoral circle will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u310	I would also like to take the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u311	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u312	Mr President, that is to say, we also want to deliver a statement of vote on the draft resolutions on hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u313	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall generally vote for Bill No 174 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 by strengthening the protection regime in parenthood ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes in favour of BE; the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 176 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the initial parental leave and the period of exemption for breastfeeding ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 194 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, extending the enjoyment of the supplementary parental leave and the leave for assistance to grandparents ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 196 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which increases the duration of the initial parental leave from the third child ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No. 197 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, which establishes the prenatal parental leave ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 198 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which increases the duration of the initial parental leave for 210 days ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No. 199 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The tenth amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which establishes the exemption for child assistance in place of the allowance for breastfeeding or breastfeeding ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 200 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of the scope of the social valleys ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No 201 / XIII ( 1 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — The fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 amends the amounts of parental allowances and creates prenatal parental allowance and parental allowance for premature birth ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 202 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, which establishes the parental leave for premature birth ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u314	It's amazing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u315	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u316	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u317	Mr President, I would like to inform you that with regard to the vote on draft lein. ( a) we shall submit to the Bureau a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u318	Well substantiated, we wait!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-01.u319	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on the proposal for a law No 24 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 61 / 2014 of 26 August which approves the special scheme applicable to deferred tax assets. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are thus at the end of our work. next Wednesday, the agenda will include the debate of Bill No. 275 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Transparency contract: establish the Reform Information System and Supplement to the Reform ( CDS-PP ), the CDS-PP's power schedule, with any vote at the end of the debate. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 38 minutes.]]
