ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a problem with the electronic registration system, which we're trying to solve. Anyway, I'm asking the gentlemen. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. However, I also ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to report the file. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u2	Mr President, they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, Bill No 21 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 — obligation to provide maritime transport services to autonomous regions during the strike ( ALRAM ), which falls to 10. the Commission and the projects of lein.o 244 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August, Law of the Economic and Social Council, in order to include in plenary two representatives of pensioners, pensioners and pensioners ( CDS-PP ), 245 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by exempting from the complaint the crime of violation of the obligation of food and aggravating its penalties ( CDS-PP ), 246 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by creating the successive indignity of those convicted of exposure or abandonment or omission of a food obligation ( CDS-PP ), 247 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 25 / 2012 of 16 July, extending the size of the living will to the planning of old age, in addition to the disease situation ( CDS-PP ), 248 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code establishes the right of the worker who is one year from the legal retirement age to choose to work part-time for two years ( CDS-PP ), 249 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service, approved by Law No 52 / 2015 of 9 June ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 250 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Confirms the intermodal social pass as a title in all collective passenger transport and updates the geographical scope of their crowns in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 251 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restricts access to the practice of Tauromachic activities by making the first amendment to Law No 31 / 2015 of 23 April establishing the regime of access and exercise of the activity of Tauromachic artist and of Tauromachic show assistant ( The Greens ). They also entered, and were admitted, the draft resolutions 336 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review legislation so as to defend the elderly from abusive penalties and exclusions they are target by age ( CDS-PP ), 337 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend Ordinance No 87 / 2006 of 24 January revising the Voluntary Card procedure ( CDS-PP ), 338 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create additional incentives to support the hiring of unemployed over 55 years ( CDS-PP ), 339 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a career management plan for older workers ( CDS-PP ), 340 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop and implement a national strategy for active ageing and longevity ( CDS-PP ), 341 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government equate the private sector regime with the public sector, where it is permitted to continue working after 70 years ( CDS-PP ), 342 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government encourage the development of senior volunteering initiatives ( CDS-PP ), 343 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve and qualify the home support service ( CDS-PP ), 344 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider and consider extending the scope and powers of the current National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth ( CDS-PP ), 345 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government update the prices of health care and social support in the care and outpatient units of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care ( CNCI ) ( CDS-PP ), 346 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government react to the health line 24 Senior until the beginning of autumn ( CDS-PP ), 347 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an information campaign to disseminate and encourage the registration of the vital will in the main media and in all public services with places of service including authorities ( CDS-PP ), 348 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen training in palliative care in Portugal ( CDS-PP ), 349 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the training of health professionals in the area of geriatrics at pre- and post-graduate levels, particularly at the level of medical specialization ( CDS-PP ), 350 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommendations to the Government in the ongoing negotiations of the EU-US Transatlantic Partnership Agreement — TTIP ( PS ), which falls to 4. the Commission, and 351 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — improving health care at the hospital in Santarém ( PS ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still having problems with the electronic register of Members. When they are resolved, I will warn you, but this does not prevent us from starting our agenda, the first of which is the thematic debate under Article 73. the Rules of Procedure, on administrative modernization, Simplex program. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing by to sit down to start this debate. [[Pause.]] There's still 13 men. Ladies and gentlemen, we will wait a little longer. [[Pause.]] I'll ask you again. Members to sit down, especially those who are behind the table. [[Pause.]] There are still three Members standing, one of whom is behind the table, and we will therefore wait a little longer for the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, sit down. [[Pause.]] I think we are already in a position to continue, although from the point of view of the electronic register the problem is not yet solved, but in terms of human and political relations. So, let's start the thematic debate on administrative modernization, Simplex program. To open the debate, I give the floor to Ms. Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, Maria Manuel Leitão Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have found no better topic to start this debate than to read in this House a letter that my mother, who is 94 years old, received at home. He prayed: « Concerning the subject under headings and fulfilling the maintenance, suspension and loss of the quality of the beneficiary in accordance with Article 18 ( c ) ( 1 ). the Decree-Law No 118 / 83 of 25 February and its publication by Decree-Law No 234 / 2005 of 30 December is requested to send us the following documentation: Declaration by the National Pension Centre or the District Social Security Centre of the area of residence, with a mandatory indication of the NISS of the person concerned, proving the situation contributing to social security, explaining the date of the first and last discount, as well as the current situation in which he or she is receiving some social benefit, such as, for example, the unemployment fund. If you are in the pensioner’s situation, you should explain whether the pension comes from a contribution scheme or a non-contributory scheme; Copy of the Citizen's Card, or, in its absence, the Identity Card and Tax Identification Number ; Test of previous year's IRS, with all attachments. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, not everything is bad, because the following paragraph says: "In future, the presentation of the documentation for the re-evaluation of the maintenance of rights will be waived if you authorize to consult your situation before social security. In order to do so, it should return this office duly signed, together with the requested documentation. It is further informed that the rights will be cancelled at the date of the terms of the card in your possession.” Simplex also serves for this, i.e., so that 94-year-olds aren't surprised... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... by letters which cannot even decode, by requests for documents which do not know where to find, by threats of loss of their rights and by copies of documents which should not be requested if the law is complied with. It is for this future — which is the only good news of this letter — to be a closer future, to be a future that we can, together with the services, have at our disposal soon. We must do this by looking at the law and checking whether the law would require to disturb these citizens. It will not be the only one! — looking at the procedures and checking whether these letters (of course, invoking the legislative provisions, but perhaps below) cannot be written more clearly, so that people understand them and know exactly where to go to seek all that documentation that is required for them not to lose rights they have taken so long and using the technology—exactly the future—so that this documentation, which is all in the possession of the Administration, is not a single document, nor does one information requested cease to be in the possession of the Administration, is not required of the citizens. For this to happen, it is necessary for the Simplex, this programme, to be a collaboration programme between the entire government, because not all this information is at the service you have requested from the entire Public Administration, and of course it is done in collaboration with local and regional administrations. This is the work we have done for the presentation of this programme. And so we have come to measures with impact on different recipients, with privilege, in this programme, for citizens — 99 measures are intended for citizens — for businesses, relieving them of costs of context necessary, for both citizens and companies, for the Public Administration itself, because this is work for the Public Administration when we deliver this documentation, which must be dealt with, which must be passed on to the information systems, which must be archived, to make our Administration more efficient, but also for associations, foundations, collectives and cooperatives, such as the Time Cooperative.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u5	Mr. Minister, I ask you to conclude or, then, we will discount in the time of the government. [[Pause.]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u6	This is why we have made this programme which we bring to the Assembly today with seven main objectives: a more efficient public administration; simpler communications; more accessible documents; more agile licensing; more information in one place, with unique contact points organized around our life events; simpler obligations; and even services for easier foreigners. These are the objectives that are shared in the programme. Thank you very much for your attention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u7	Nine were registered. Members to request clarification, which will be done in two rounds. At the end of the first five requests for clarification and then at the end of the remaining four requests for clarification. First of all, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you're right. In fact, the Public Administration can be a real calvary for citizens, businesses and social organisations. in this framework, modernizing and simplifying public administration is no longer an option, it is an imperative of any government. It sends the truth that all governments, especially since the 1990s, although with different degrees of intensity, have indeed contributed to this simplification of our Public Administration. We, in the previous government, were able to implement hundreds of measures precisely in this regard. Now, the Simplex + 2016 program, which we are discussing today, is also included in this evolutionary line of simplification, which is positive. However, Mrs Minister, contrary to what many may think, not everything in this document is new, nor everything in this document is innovation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u9	in fact, Mrs. Minister, many of the measures were already planned, they were already planned, they were already scheduled, they were ready. Many of them were being implemented, although partially. Many of the measures listed here are only possible because, in fact, the former Government has created the conditions for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u10	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u11	Other measures are, as the Minister will certainly recognize, extensions of measures already implemented. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u12	To learn: IRS Automatic, Documents Always at Hand, School 360o, Electronic Notifications, Recipe Without Paper Plus, Civil Online Registration +, Online Complaints Book, Mobile Citizen Balcão, Electronic Health Bulletin, Unique Environmental Title. These are examples of measures contained in this programme, which were born with the former Government and which this Government continues.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u13	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u14	Of all the measures, allow me, Mrs Minister, to highlight, perhaps because it is the most paradigmatic, the Single Environmental License, the responsibility of the former Minister of the Environment, Land Planning and Energy Eng. Jorge Moreira da Silva. I recall that, when this licensing was discussed in this House, the PS diminished it. At the time, Mr. Pedro Farmhouse said: "To talk about the congregation of various legal regimes and their procedures for obtaining environmental licensing and a single environmental title is, in this framework, a worrying matter".
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u16	I'm glad the PS has changed its mind now in the government. However, Madam Minister, it is important to make it clear that environmental licensing already exists. All the necessary legislation is published, there is only a lack of compliance — I repeat, only a lack of compliance — the last stages of adequacy and computer adjustment for the full functioning of the legislation. Therefore, in this context, Mrs Minister, we are not concerned that this measure, considered as a precursor and an example either by the European Commission, or by the OECD, consists of the Simplex + 2016 programme. What we are really concerned about, Mrs Minister, is that, when we speak simultaneously in the environment, licensing and administrative simplification, we find that no other measure is advanced, no other measure is added. I therefore ask you whether this reference to the Single Environmental Title will not only serve for the Government to hide, to spread and somehow overcome a grueling inability to go further in this area than was the previous Government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u17	Before we continue, I make two comments. First, you have exceeded the time given to the request for clarification. however, this time that has passed was discounted in the parliamentary group, as happened with the Minister, so there is no problem. Secondly, there's a background noise, which I don't know if it's at the bottom, if it's really close, very strong. That's why I was asking the ladies. Members who are standing, from behind, or in demonstrations of great affection to sit down. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of State, Almada Negroes, this great exponent of modernity, said : « When I was born, the phrases that would - save humanity were all written, only one thing was missing - save humanity». I recalled this quote following the speech of the PSD Member, who has just preceded me, because Almada Negraeiros, with corrosive acidity, well illustrated the difference between saying and doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u20	in watching, in the last few days, and today, in the question that preceded me, an attempt to occupy the media and now parliamentary space, with a trial of devaluation of the Simplex, I wanted to say, before asking the question, that, by manifest lack of foundation, this attempt is intended to subjugate, as is easily demonstrated. In fact, when at the beginning of this year 2016, the Minister said that the Simplex is back, it is precisely this image that attaches to reality, because for four years or a quadriennial, the systematic process of implementation and administrative modernization—a process that, I remember, was born with that name, by the name of Simplex, by his hand and by the hand of the then responsible Minister in December 2005—was literally set aside, despite the hundreds of proposals that have just been raised. Let's remember: the previous government took possession in 2011. Now, in 2014, the Sun newspaper, suspicious of leftistism, reported: The Simple Step Mark. Also in 2014, in April, shortly thereafter, the Assembly of the Republic adopted a resolution recommending that the Government then introduce and promote the implementation of the Simplification Programme, a programme of modernisation and administrative simplification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u21	Mr President, once again I would like to ask you to pause, because the noise in the Chamber makes it even impossible for the members of the Government to hear what you are saying. So I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen standing and the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are back to the Bureau, please sit down. Please continue, Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u22	Thank you, Mr President, and to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who allow me to continue. I said that in 2014, three years back on the takeover of the former Government, the Assembly of the Republic adopted a resolution recommending that the Government introduce and promote the implementation of the Simplification programme. What happened to this program presented in 2014? Another newspaper, this time online, and even less suspicious of any leftist drift, the Observer, asked the following question, in 2015: « What is done from the script of state reform? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Regarding the issue of administrative simplification, this same newspaper on the programme Simplify in 2015 not only asked the question how it answered : « So far companies have been heard in several sectors(... ), there were working sessions(...) the measure is still in the discussion plan, but it had two years to be implemented on the ground: 2014 and 2015 (... ) ». Obviously, they will say that it was not possible to do what was proposed, there was no time. The Minister, of course, is her ability to do what her predecessors said was not possible or it was too difficult to characterize her. That is why we also greet her and urge her to continue and distinguish herself by her ability to perform. Mrs. Minister, I wanted to ask you a question related to the presentation you made of the program on May 19. When Mr Prime Minister mentioned, and very well, the modernisation of the State, which is a challenge where the objectives of creating conditions to be more competitive and more efficient in managing expenditure, and that the aim of modernisation is not to close services, the question which was raised, and for which it was praised, in fact, by the Vice-President of the European Commission, was that the process of administrative modernization is not a finished process; on the contrary, it is a continuous process. What I ask you, Madam Minister, is the following: precisely not being a finished process, at this point where the Simple 2016 program formalizes, how will it ensure the incorporation of proposals that guarantee the continued updating of this program so that it can continue to be what has always been, that is, a paradigm of modernization of the Portuguese Public Administration? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u23	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Paulino Ascension, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, here I refer to what seems to be a gap in this Simplex programme. when searching for the various measures we find no reference to the use of free or open software and the implementation of open standards in the documents that are made available by the Administration. The use of free software itself is not a modernisation measure, but it enhances innovation, allows large medium and long-term savings, especially, and ensures greater security and independence from private suppliers. The availability of documents and forms, in accordance with open standards, exempts citizens and companies from the obligation to acquire applications that are paid and therefore more expensive than open software solutions, which are normally free and therefore enables great savings for the whole economy. On the issue of security, I ask you how the State allows the use of closed software in functions of sovereignty as sensitive as justice, defence or tax administration, closed applications, applications of operating systems that are authentic black boxes, whose internal functioning no one can audit and, therefore, no one, other than the manufacturer, can guarantee security, can ensure that there are no unauthorized accesses. Internally developed solutions based on proprietary tools suffer from these same limitations. The richest countries in northern Europe are much more advanced in this chapter in the use of free tools. In Portugal, it prevails the prejudice that what is good must be expensive. Well, what is free is often also good and sometimes even better. There is virtually no area today where open or free software solutions are not good enough. They may not be the best, but they perfectly meet the requirements of the average users. We do not need Ferrari, nor the latest cry of technology, but, yes, tools that offer a cost/benefit that is acceptable and bearable. Free software allows more innovation, more collaboration between different bodies, more competition between service providers, than most of the innovation of the chain of inherent value is retained in the country rather than going out to the owner of the trade marks. Another concrete issue concerns the applications of the Tax Administration for submission of tax obligations have been built and remain in a technology that is now considered unsafe and that the latest versions of the Internet browsers no longer support. There is, therefore, a concrete opportunity here for the implementation of open solutions to solve this security problem, with the most facilitated integration, with the management solutions of the organizations. There is also an opportunity here for centres of competence, particularly in the field of computer science, to demonstrate their potential. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u25	To request clarification, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u26	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, we have often talked about the last of them yesterday on this matter that is dear to us all. I will not repeat in detail the critical greetings and remarks I have already made to you on other occasions, which not only yesterday, but I can not fail to tell you, Mrs Minister, that the CDS has been, is and will always be a enthusiasm for Simplex, simplification and removal of obstacles. Now, by doing a parenthesis, I would also like to remind you that removing obstacles and simplification do not wear out only in the paperless world, online and digital. It is a little bit more — and I would not like to stop telling you this, otherwise without appropriation, as we were talking about yesterday, Minister. That's not what this is about here. This is not about ownership or anything else, it is about a policy that is essential and that is, without doubt, continuity — with different names, yes, ma'am, but certainly about continuity. I'd like to make this clear. This said, and going to the most particular question that I would like to leave you in this amalgam of simplification, there is something that concerns us very much and that it is the removal of obstacles to economic activity, which does not seem so worked out in this Simplex +. This obviously has implications, which I am not going to state as a whole, but the greatest of which is, of course, the net job creation, which we need so much. in this sense, Mrs. Minister, I would like to ask you a question about the licensings and to join me in this area. In February, at the hearing with the Minister about the discussion of the State budget, about precisely the policy of continuity and follow-up that this majority has given in this matter to the work of the previous Government, I told her about the LUA (Single Environmental License) and the RJACSR (The Legal Regime of Trade, Services and Restoration), among other licensings, and the Minister said she had a very critical view of them at that time. I see that it has evolved, at least with regard to the LUA, but I quote what I said at that time: "We have already changed the regimes so many times, but, in fact, we have not yet done what one day will have to do, which is to look at the rules all - that of the environment, that of the work, that of the industry - and see if all this is right and if the whole period is reasonable. Because only when I have these licenses or authorizations or communications all made is that I can start working, and that was the great work that needed to continue to be done, rather than moving on to the rules. Do not keep on seeking. ” I therefore ask you, Minister, where is this "great work" in this Simplex +. What was done in this Simplex+ to counter this negative vision that then proved to have? Frankly, in the part dedicated to the most agile licensing, I see matters relating to private security activity, the hunter's letter, real estate mediation, the licensing of pharmacy and health units, except error, or health issues, the licensing in the area of medicine, among many others, and only in the Employer's Balcony + see a reference to environmental, urban and industrial licensings, in order to integrate processes. The question I have to ask you is: what is this process integration? What is this integration about, Minister? If this is what is being read, it seems to be short, especially in comparison with what I said last February, i.e. that, with regard to these licences, it was a "great work" that had to be done, rather than moving on to the rules. Frankly, if the idea and the objective, and it is good to be, are to continue to remove bureaucratic restrictions and constraints and meaningless to economic activity, we do not think that this Simplex + meets these concerns. So I would like to hear about this. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u27	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Minister, the CFP fully agrees with the need to effectively modernise and simplify the Public Administration and thus improve the capacity to respond to Portuguese in fundamental public services such as health, education or social security. Mr Minister, however, we cannot fail to mention a number of concerns. Issues such as data protection, the need to improve and increase proximity services, the lack of distance responses, and the awareness that this Simple does not solve all the problems facing Portuguese people will be deepened in the various interventions that the CFP Parliamentary Group will do next. at this moment, I wanted to leave you three concrete questions. First, how is this government going to implement this gigantic 255 measures bill of charge, knowing that PSD and CDS-PP have left the Public Administration with huge gaps, particularly at the level of human resources? A second question, Mrs Minister, concerns the finding that many of the solutions identified for the problems identified are of a computer nature and therefore solutions for the creation of applications, software, databases and computer platforms are proposed. How will the State respond to this need? Are we going to insist on a course of recourse to private entities? What will be the state's training in this matter? Because this is essential to ensure the privacy, autonomy and independence of the state, so that we do not stay in the hands of private people who develop these same computer responses. Finally, Mrs Minister, an additional question that has to do with finding that simplification of processes often leads to problems in the real world. The creation of the Company solution today leads to the fact that there are several social security credits, to the tax that are hidden, dissipated, omitted, of its collection through the creation of companies at the time and in which there is a particularly serious phenomenon of workers' credits that clearly run away from the fulfilment of their obligations. So you need to have some caution and evaluate the solutions. I would ask you, Minister, what is the Government's thinking on this concrete reality? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u29	In reply, the Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernisation has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u30	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all the questions that have been raised and said that we hope this is not the last Simplex, but only the first series, an effort—we have already started working so that we can present this programme to the country and before this House. Of course, as I have always said, and that is why the importance of continuity, simplification and administrative modernization are not done by decree—unfortunately, because it would be a great benefit for me, not by law, not only by a document or by a good programme for better, more comprehensive, more thorough, more daring than it is, only once or with one decision. It is unfortunately, or fortunately, a continuous process that requires even, many times, as we have seen in this programme, to revisit measures that have been already emblematic and with great added value in the Public Administration, situations recognized among us by companies and internationally recognized by those who had to evaluate us. It is therefore a task of continuity, often of rupture, with innovations — and innovation is not invention, I am here to make the distinction between the two concepts because the ladies and gentlemen. Members should know — it is often done by incremental innovation, i.e. by adding new features and improving existing features in relation to platforms that have long existed. It would be unthinkable to think of the automatic IRS if the delivery of the IRS declarations could not be done electronically or if they had not, from a certain stage, been in the initial phase, after being pre-filled, connecting other sources of information from the Public Administration that hold the information that appears today in our statements. Therefore, it is normal for these situations to continue in some cases and the important thing is that the measures are not abandoned. I didn't want to look here for the past, because I like looking at the future. The future is challenging enough and gives us enough work not to take our time looking to the past. But if we look at the past, some of the measures that the newspapers have taken — and I assume they transmit the position of some Members. Members — they have indicated that they were measures of the previous government until they were already measures listed in previous Simplex, particularly in the latter, that they have not been implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u32	And I could give here several examples. There's no problem. I'm even glad they had continuity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One was the "Ideia Simplex" Prize, which consisted of a set of suggestions given by public officials, which we awarded and assumed the obligation to include. You're talking at the Single Environmental Licensing. Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, I must say that it was not because of speaking in this way that I went to see her. No, I knew the measure and the regime. I have even had the opportunity, although the vote is secret, to vote alone in a competition in which I took part a year ago to reward this measure, because, with my sensitivity to licensing issues, I thought it was an important step. Unfortunately, it wasn't the winner, but I even had a chance to appreciate it. But making a regime or even starting a platform like the one that exists, the Simulator, is far from the end. It was good that I had come to an end, because it was a problem, as the honourable Member said, that would be solved. But you're not, sir! The Simulator has 517 questions, I repeat, 517 questions. We need to simplify, we need to see if these questions are needed. The link between the responsible industry system, common SIR, which this House approved to the environmental part, which is a fundamental factor, as Mrs Vania Dias da Silva had the opportunity to mention, is made only for waste and for the prevention of serious accidents. in other cases, refer to a non-editable PDF. You need to send an e-mail so you can edit the PDF. They are small details that show that we are far away—but we are going to get there, and it was a good principle—to get to the end. If we don't sign the measure, it's less controlled. The cooperation work that needs to be done between the Agency for Administrative Modernization and APA (Portuguese Environment Association) to complete this work is less monitored. The public commitment to complete the measure does not exist, as it did not exist in many cases of the previous government which could mention here, but, as I said, I like to look at the future more than to talk about the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u33	Mrs. Minister, there is another set of four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Minister, first of all, The Greens would like to record the Government's efforts and, in particular, its Ministry's efforts to make this process as involved as possible, which is always to praise, because, after all, no one is better than the recipients of the measures will know of their opportunity and relevance. But more: as the measures are also the result of suggestions from people, autoarchs, associations and workers themselves and leaders of the Public Administration and local administration, we will certainly have more guarantees of success in terms of the results of these same measures. On the other hand, we also know that the more involved the process is, the more democratic it will be and, therefore, we are winning twice, we are winning in two different dimensions. Mr Minister, the idea of the government in this programme in the Simple programme can be synthesized in an effort to make the relationship between citizens and the state as far away as possible from a click. It is thus intended to facilitate the relationship of citizens with the State and with the public services that the State must provide to people. in this context, it would be very important, for example, for people to deal with in one point, in one interaction, all that has to do with an event of their lives, but it would also be imperative to reorganize public services and equip them with means, especially humans, so that they can be equipped and prepared to respond to the needs of the Portuguese. For quality public services, it is important to speed up, simplify, de-burocratize. It is important to invest in digital and in the capacity to work online, increasing the number of online services, but without forgetting that there are also many people who continue without access to the computer media and who cannot be ignored in this programme. It is important to reduce costs for those dealing with the State and to improve the management of public expenditure. We will therefore hope that this project will have positive impacts on people's lives and that it can at the same time translate a reduction in costs for public administration but also that it can bring environmental benefits, as well as from the point of view of natural resources. in this sense, we note the government's ambition to demand by 2017, zero role in Public Administration, which would be a real fact and an excellent contribution to the sustainable development that we all want, but, Madam Minister, the rest of the Simplex for the area of the environment deserves - us some reservations and some concerns that we cannot of course stop putting. From now on, because legislative and administrative simplification cannot be synonymous with deregulation, procedures need to be simplified, but in order to ensure the objectives which the law intends. The bureaucracy must be combated, but this fight cannot allow automatic legalisation of certain investments. We know that the environment did not gain, for example, with the implementation of projects of relevant national interest, such PINs, because the argument of growth and tourism or even strategic projects ended up as a pretext to go over environmental rules. In addition, with regard to the PIN projects, of projects of relevant national interest, what we find is that in investment contracts the project promoters themselves end up imposing on the State itself that ignores environmental requirements, which cannot be because environmental rules have to be respected and, in fact, for that which exists. For example, one of the most important parts in all environmental policy is undoubtedly environmental impact assessment and therefore cannot be called into question, cannot be weakened and much less be ignored. The first question I have to ask you, Mrs Minister, has exactly to do with this. We want to know whether the Minister is in a position to assure us that the Simple for the environment will not mean deregulation, whether it will not mean shortening or passing over environmental requirements for the various enterprises – and, when I talk about the enterprises, I am referring to tourism enterprises in particular. I think it was important that the Minister could now give us assurances that nothing is at stake in terms of deregulation. On the schedule of this programme, the Government's proposal is that this programme be monitored by May 2017. I'd like you to tell us how this programme monitoring work is going to be done. Finally, I would also like the Minister to tell us whether there are any specific measures planned for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises under this programme. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u35	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, also has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, in the Simplex + programme, the Government presents a set of measures for the tax area in order to simplify the taxpayer's reporting obligations. Among them, we would like to highlight the automatic IRS measure, which aims to gradually end with the need to deliver the IRS declaration to taxpayers who only increased employee and pension income. The objective of this measure is, of course, positive, but there are issues that must be guarded. There is information that is not initially in the possession of the Tax Administration and that it can only obtain it if it is the taxpayer to supply it. I am referring, in particular, to the taxpayer's options expressed at the time of submission of the IRS declaration, such as the option for the inclusion of income and capital or the option for the appropriation of part of the tax paid. The implementation of the IRS Automatic measure must, of course, maintain the possibility of taxpayers exercising these and other options enshrined in the IRS Code. There is also another information which the Tax Administration does not have or can provide if it is not the taxpayer to provide it. I am referring, for example, to employment income and pensions obtained abroad. This circumstance will always require the taxpayer to intervene in the process, and the Tax Administration cannot process the IRS declaration without the taxpayer's prior opportunity to declare whether or not there are incomes of this type. We are sure that the Government will not fail to take these issues into account in the implementation of the IRS Automatic measure, safeguarding the directness of taxpayers. But, Madam Minister, the merit of simplification in the fiscal area must not forget the central political issue, which is the need to evolve in the sense of a more fair and appropriate fiscal policy to the country's needs, in particular the need to continue the process of reversal of the brutal increase in labour income taxes carried out by the previous PSD/CDS government, which started this year with the extinction of the extraordinary overtax in the IRS. Nor can it forget the need to tax small businesses and properly tax economic groups, large businesses and large fortunes. Madam Minister, we do not devalue the tax measures of the Simplex programme, but much more important is the construction of a new fiscal policy which, by breaking with the support of the large capital, allows to relieve the tax burden on workers and the people and which responds more appropriately to the development needs of the country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u37	For clarifications, Mrs Margarida Mano of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u38	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Dear Members, we have already had the opportunity to express to the Minister how much we welcome the goodness of the objectives and measures of the Simple. All that means simplifying Portuguese Public Administration procedures or betting on digital and new technologies, contributing to greater accessibility and transparency of citizens vis-à-vis the state, is good. in the field of administrative modernization, we are in an area of political convergence in Portugal, where the line of continuity is unequivocal, where not only the governments, through the programmes they launch — Simplex, Approach or Simplify — but also the bodies with specific mission, such as the AMA (Agency for Administrative Modernization) and, in particular, the leaders of the Public Administration, the authorities, the institutes and the various services, are building good practices, looking for partners and funding to make different, to do better, thus becoming responsible for the successes achieved on the ground. We're what we do repeatedly. Therefore, many of the measures now being presented, as has been said by all and also by the Minister, well reflect an idea of evolution. This is the case with the already mentioned Automatic IRS, an excellent example in the tax area, where much has been necessary, since the electronic making of income statements, with Dr. Paulo Macedo in front of the Tax Administration, up to the e-invoice, added in the most recent years by the Government of the XIX, without what would not be possible the measure now announced. Another example in the area of health is that of the Recipe Without Paper Plus, where much was done in the dematerialization of the prescription of medicines, through the electronic accesses authenticated and where the Ordinance No 224/2015 of 27 July regulates the implementation of the entire recipe circuit Without Paper, prescription, dispensation and billing. Evoluing is always the main secret. Administrative modernization is widely consensual; it is certainly not what separates us, it is what brings us closer to it. The document submitted is ambitious, the measures are timetabled, but nothing is said about costs. There will certainly be a need for significant initial investment, even with the national participation of European funds. The question I put is how much it costs, how much savings will be made in relation to the government announced for this year, how choices will be made for savings, which budgets will bear the expenditure. These are questions that we would like to see answered. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that administrative modernization cannot and should not be confused with State reform. Modernization is, or may be, an instrument of State reform as important as it is leveraged in a culture of public service, lived by people, but it is not the reform of the State. The reform of the State, which benefits from effective concrete measures which, fortunately, will take place, both at the level of administrative modernization and at other levels, requires the strength of a more or less broad consensus and the focus on a clear vision of what is or what must be a transparent public administration, which makes good use of public money and accounts and which is effective in responding to public service expectations that citizens can, and must, in freedom and democracy, sustainably aspire. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u39	Mr João Ramos, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, would like to bring here a concern and a warning in this process. The Simple program proposes simplifying, speeding up relations with the Public Administration. With this programme, it is also intended and proposed to dematerialise processes. There is a risk, which has already occurred in other programmes, in which, by simplifying, dematerializing the processes, they also end up dematerializing, nullifying and closing the public services of proximity. These measures will certainly facilitate the relations of many Portuguese with public services, but many Portuguese will continue to need close public services. I would like to give the example of the Ministry of Agriculture, where the proximity services do not serve only as a point of contact between farmers and the Public Administration, but also have important roles in the management of processes, processing of applications and payments and have, or should have, technical support functions. Previous administrative modernization programmes led to the loss of intervention capacity of these nearby public services, which were not replaced by any other structure. That is why this problem is not exclusive to these services of the Ministry of Agriculture, it is a cross-cutting problem to many other services. Ms.Minister, being the objective of Simplex 2016 to modernize the way public services are provided and, another of the objectives, savings in financial terms, I would like to know whether they are safeguarded the maintenance and strengthening of proximity public services with non-replaceable functions by other modernization models and in locations and sectors where citizens need services to interact with the Public Administration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u41	In reply, Mr Maria Manuel Leitão Marques has the floor of the Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, several questions have been asked in this and the previous series of questions, which I have not had the opportunity to answer. Mr President, I would like to tell you that this provision on open rules, which was one of the last of which I made a commitment to the previous government that I was a member of, and that is why I know in detail how difficult it was to be approved in this House of the Republic, will always pay attention. It is natural that in this programme we do not yet have this information, the methodology, the software, which will be used to develop and implement some of these measures, but we are working together, in fact, with all the means and computer bodies of the Public Administration, following what was an initiative of the government I took part, designated by GPTIC (Project Group for Information and Communication Technologies), which we have now changed a little, but it is only a normal change in the evolution of work done, to share resources and, of course, to save resources, because the costs are obviously for us, Mrs Depute, a concern. I also wanted to say, as I had the opportunity yesterday to say in 1. the Commission, which will obviously respect the privacy and protection of data in accordance with existing laws, but we think that this is a reflection that we should all make in the future, on whether we find ways to better reconcile the administrative modernization and the protection of adequate data to what exists and what is data in the 21st century, which are not exactly the same as in the 20th century, in terms of exposure and protection. Mrs Deputies, I have not answered you a while ago, but obviously the Balcony of Entrepreneur + is our approach, as I have always said and said again, an integrated approach on a single counter which then connects and integrates several platforms, from the platform of what was the Zero License, to industry, to the environment and, obviously, to the most difficult part, that is the link to the work, given its decentralization. That way is walking. It is a difficult path, but we hope to have time to get there and find what, as I have told you, is my vision and I believe that it is also the vision of companies in terms of licensing. The way we change this perception and complete a path of reform of regimes, sometimes it is going a little backwards, but I will not enter that information, because I do not have time to answer in detail, but, of course, I am at the disposal of the honourable Member for that purpose. I also want to say that, when we create or have services electronically and online, sometimes this is not thought, but we are always facilitating access, and even access with greater proximity, even though often mediated, as is the case in the areas of the citizen, which is an excellent initiative, citizens who cannot, they do not know or do not have access to make or use electronic means. That must always be a concern. I have said, and I repeat, that no one should be left out and that there should be an effort, because today technologies are more friendly, so that everyone can access in a more comfortable way, which is through our phone, so to speak. But as long as that does not happen, these citizens must have equal access. I would ask the President to allow the Secretary of State and Administrative Modernization to use the floor to clarify some of the issues that have been raised here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u43	Of course, Mrs. Minister. Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u44	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify some of the issues raised here, and I will begin by what has been raised by the PCP and the Left Block. Already in the past here was asked the question about open software and open data, and today it was again put, and I always like to answer. There are several Simplex measures that are not stated as such, but assume that they will be built not only with open data but also with free software. In fact, the Simplex website itself, if Mr.Deputy wants to consult, today it already has an open data area, precisely so that it can be used by everyone, and it has been built into an open software. Therefore, the Simplex website itself began, if you would like, with this « culture», precisely to promote that others can follow it, and we will do so in other ways. How is Simplex going to be implemented? We also talked about this yesterday in the Commission, and at that time I had the opportunity to say that it is indeed a very heavy burden book, because it is 255 measures and some of them quite complex. And we know how important it is, and the honourable Member also mentioned, involving the leaders and officials of the Public Administration. That's how we started building the Simplex. I remember, it is never too much to do so, that 147 of the 255 measures originate in civil servants and public administration leaders, and this is the way we have to go. There is something that, for us, is absolutely obvious: if we don't start on the zero day building a Simplex and if there isn't this dynamic with the employees, with the people who day by day give a face in the name of the State in public services, if we don't involve them in solutions, the Simplex will never have any capacity to be implemented. So we are going to do this with all of us and we hope that, with this dynamic that we have created from the beginning, it will be possible to implement this book of charges, and of course we also count on all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. The question of SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) was also raised, with measures for SMEs. There are several measures in Simple specifically aimed at micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. I stress one, which has been mentioned here a few times, which is the simplification of the whole system of goldsmiths and contrasts, which comes from the previous government. It is one of the areas we have been working with the various partners. There are many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises which are in a very complicated situation, precisely by this legal regime, and we are working with partners to simplify the scheme and so we can alleviate some of these companies. Finally, on the question of automatic IRS, I have already had the opportunity to say, several times, and I repeat, that automatic IRS will be implemented gradually, as mentioned here, with the guarantee that all the guarantees that today the taxpayers have will be maintained. I often give the example of the pre-filled statements, which, when they were initiated, have also raised many questions, namely whether it would be possible to claim the data and information contained in the pre-filled declaration, and today, it is a reality with which we all live in a relatively peaceful way, because, whenever there are errors or inaccuracies, there is the possibility of being able to complain. Therefore, this will also be done with regard to automatic IRS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u45	We now enter the stage of the debate and, for the first time, have the floor of Mrs Hortense Martins of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Simple programme was created in 2006 and was in fact an internalized brand as something valuable and corresponding to misburocratization for most companies and Portuguese. A brand recognized by OECD itself in 2008 and, as we know, we cannot always be starting from scratch. This, in fact, is the commitment of this Government and that Minister Maria Manuel Leitão Marques has already referred several times here. So this struggle about the 'paternity' of some measures is, let me tell you, a little ridiculous, by what it represents. Perhaps it would be better if the opposition were to analyze and give suggestions on how to improve the lives of businesses and our fellow citizens. As we have seen and well know, the facts are clear and, if there are some measures in which the previous government had already started the process, such as the 360th School, there was still a great deal to be done so that it could be said that the objective of this measure was in fact working in full. On the other hand, it would be damnable if an idea were to lie outside, even if it only existed as such, that it was considered good, i.e. that it was not implemented only because it was « orange color» and not « pink color». But it was not that, never, that this government took over. This Government has always taken on the continuity of good measures, contrary to what the previous Government has done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This attitude to devalue what was done in the Simplex in 2006 and what was done now in the presentation of the Simplex + 2016 is not a good way. In fact, it is a devaluation that is without reason, because we know that even internationally, even in the past, this Simplex had already been valued and that the European Commission's work document Country Report Portugal 2016, published in February, said: « Portugal continues to have major regulatory burdens on business. Progress was slow in 2015 and limited to central administration’. Moreover: "The fragility of the business environment is the main obstacle to economic growth and a more efficient allocation of resources. Regulatory barriers and weak institutional capacity make it difficult to allocate resources to increase productivity." He also says that with regard to registering a business, this is easy, but licensing is still heavy, and we know that in many matters there has been even retrogression. The excessive complexity and unpredictability of administrative procedures are the concerns of Portuguese companies. And in the face of these problems, the PS government has done very well to re- prioritise Simplex as set out in our programme. It was urgent to do so and therefore the Government and, in particular, the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries, they did all this work that configures the Simplex + based on an auscultation process that we also recognize, in proximity to people, companies and public servants, with whom they work in matters and know what is necessary and what should be changed. And this process was also a methodology that was implemented and interrupted. I would also like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who Portugal fell three positions in the world ranking of competitiveness, currently occupying 39. the place...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u47	He's fallen this year!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u48	... and the index that fell most was that of the efficiency of public bodies, this is the one that presents the biggest fall, going from 34. the place for 48. the place. Now here is evidence of something that has to be reversed. In fact, the devaluation and demotivating of the Public Administration is undoubtedly something that has not been outside and that has a direct influence and correlation in this index, and we must also reverse this, as the Government is implementing measures to, listening to the Public Administration, encourage and motivate our public officials in order to take advantage of their knowledge. The continuity process is essential. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that our business fabric is, above all, made up of small and medium-sized enterprises. The European Commission itself has long since determined that legislation must be enacted in the light of that. For this reason, legislative simplification is essential, and simplification is not uneven. Simplify, taking into account the costs that certain legislation has in terms of impact, it is necessary to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies and help create jobs. Citizens' access to legislation must be guaranteed to citizens and businesses through something free of charge and official, such as access to the Journal of the Republic, because it is necessary for citizens to comply with the law, and it is also necessary to facilitate their knowledge of the law itself. I also note the many measures in tax and access terms of the less informed and less technological knowledge. Mrs. Minister did very well to have started her speech on this. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, making a suggestion that I also think it is essential: the proper timing of tax obligations so that long-standing accounting professionals can also have ease in meeting their tax obligations. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has also recently been said that in future governments should take this programme into account, which is exactly what governments need. It is necessary to bear in mind that there is much to be gained from the example of Portugal. Therefore, with work, will and competence we can have fewer costs in context, less bureaucracy and better and more employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u49	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Modernizing the functioning of the State is essential for the quality of public services offered to the population and for the quality of our democracy. The Simplex 2016 measures deserve, in general, a positive assessment, taking into account its contribution to improving the daily relationship between citizens and the Administration, making it more friendly and combating the reality of a heavy administration, labyrinthic, taxive and even aggressive to the generality of the citizens. The Ombudsman, in an interview published yesterday, complained about the excessive coldness of the state machine before the citizens, who are people and not numbers and who cannot therefore be treated only as numbers. The benefit of information and communication technologies should be fully exploited for this strategic objective, always safeguarding the special fragility of many citizens and many citizens, especially poorer social strata and more isolated geographical areas, for which the physical proximity—and not just the virtual—of the Administration is a vital requirement. The Left Block would like to focus its assessment on this debate at a very important point. It is very significant the large amount of Simplex measures originating in contributions from public servants. As already mentioned by the Secretary of State, 147 of the 255 measures originated in contributions from public servants. This very relevant fact contradicts the idea that public officials are a problem for the country, the image of lazy and unproductive employees. With this response, these officials say 'present' and demonstrate that they are committed citizens and that they want to participate in the construction of a better country. The problem is the way they have been treated: with disdain, humiliation, offended in their dignity and professional brightness, in particular under the previous PSD/CDS government. We welcome the acceptance of measures proposed by our bank, in particular the welcome kit to refugees. As the Secretary of State informed the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, there was one of the public officials claiming that this was the first time, after 30 years in office, that it was questioned about the operation of its service. This way, to encourage the participation of officials in the management of services, including in the evaluation of managers, and also the participation of users in the evaluation of services, is the right way to have a more effective, friendly, participatory and transparent public administration, with motivated and productive employees. It is necessary to promote a participatory culture, of service to citizens, communities, and to combat authoritarian culture, of pre-power, which is fertile ground for sympathy and corruption. We see the PSD concerned about the cost of the measures proposed at the Simplex. Certainly, this is an assessment that must be made, in fact, it is essential to evaluate the costs and benefits. But there is consistency: it is extraordinary that the PSD expresses this concern about evaluating costs, when it comes to investing in modernizing the functioning of the State, because when it was about destroying public services to deliver them to private people, this concern was dispensed. When the previous government, for example, held association contracts with private colleges in places where there was no need, because there was sufficient public school offer, there was no cost/benefit assessment. But now, when it is intended to rationalize the use of this instrument, the right has already demanded that these studies be carried out! For this liberal right, the state is bad. Bridge! Privates always manage better. Bridge! Any evaluation is unnecessary and inconvenient, because it can deny this absolute faith in the markets. What the PSD and CDS want is to dismantle public services and privatize them and therefore it is not important for the Public Administration to function better, to be more effective, to have more quality. It does not matter, because this undermines the objective of privatization. The PSD and CDS integrate this strange movement entitled'In defense of the private. Bridge! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Therefore, they did not continue the Simplex programme during the previous government and they devalued the previous programme. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] A word for competence centres and the important role they may have in reducing state spending with external consulting, studies and opinions, which often have the drawer as a destination. Here we find many "fats" in public spending, which is important to cut. Those who are better aware of the functioning of the Public Administration are those who work there, who must be valued, as well as their competences. The State has highly qualified technicians who, well managed, can respond to many of the needs that give rise to external recruitment. It is claimed that the Administration does not have the necessary skills for a particular study or project, but what we find are private consultants who incorporate, in their teams, officials of the State itself and, eventually, other bodies. It is symptomatic that private persons hired to overcome the State's inadequacies are assisted by State officials to carry out the tasks for which they are called. However, the Public Administration must be able to do this intermediation, to take the skills that are available where they need to be. It is necessary to create mechanisms that break with the logic of « capelines », which undermines the functioning of the Public Administration. It is therefore necessary to encourage centres of competence, to value them, to make them into laboratories of procedural innovation, an institutional culture of excellence in the public sector, bringing together the knowledge of the bodies and their employees with the most innovative knowledge of the academy and other actors of society. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u51	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u52	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It has already been said, but it will perhaps be important at this time of the repeated debate that the CDS agrees with the purpose of simplification. And I think it is particularly necessary to mention it at this time, because the truth is that, among the benches that support your government, the Minister, of the PS bench, I have seen some enthusiasm, although, also tell you, Minister, not as much as that which is demonstrated in the attack on these benches. Now, from there, from the PCP, BE and Les Verdes, the word I heard the most was « but», in phrases of the genre: « We even think it is good, but we need to be careful», « We even think it is good, but we cannot do this..., but we cannot do that... but we need to be careful...». Well, everything needs to be in VV's head. Ex., continue exactly as you are. Now, this programme, I suppose, is precisely to decomplicate, to simplify. And in this sense, in what really is, you will certainly have our support. Secondly, because simplifying is an objective and why it is important to understand whether or not the program corresponds to that objective, I would like to ask questions on two fundamental points. First, on the option for online, and here it seems that everyone will agree more or less, I would like to remember that online is not necessarily simpler, it is not necessarily decomplicated, and that the permanence of a culture of "farms" in the Public Administration brings some problems. Ms. Minister, on the measures that create, develop or update a portal, we have: Military Beneficiary Portal ; Public Real Estate Portal ; Licenser pharmacies + simple; Digital Clinical Trials; Dacultura; Certificates of Online Drug Authorisation; New Truck Services Portal + accessible; Single ICNF Door ; Export Portal; Finance Portal +; Defence Memory Institutions Portal; Citizen Portal +; Government Portal +; Tourism Portal +. Now, I wonder if there is any integrated strategy of all these creations. And we don't stay here, because then we have the platforms. Step to read: Aquaculture Platform; Supported Platform Renda; artist's e-balcão; Electronic Professional Health Office; Online Criminal Registry; Sea Platform; Catalogue of support products for people with disabilities and disabilities; e-classification of films; On-line Application for apostila; State Cultural Heritage for Events; Online Territorial Planning; i-FAMA; Institute of Cinema and Digital Audiovisual; Single Window Customs; Electronic Yellow Book. This is not a criticism, Mrs. Minister, but looking at it like this, let's say it's no simpler, it doesn't look like a whole built. And that is the question: would it not be worth examining — and since the Minister spoke so much about reforming the state and that this was the real reform of the state, which we will then be able to discuss later, because I believe it is not — and create something that would be a coherent whole? I believe that the Minister has made this effort, but frankly, who reads what is here and who sees all these platforms and portals—and I didn't even go to the applications, which are also 10— won't you think there is some confusion here instead of simplification? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u53	You don't have to go to all of them! Just go where you need it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u54	It is that, once again, Mrs. Minister, on-line is not necessarily simpler. And above all, one : or we want to make this online effort everywhere—and there are portals that are transversal, as is the case with the Citizen's Portal or the Government Portal, and there are those that are specific, such as the Exports, Finance or Tourism effort, and there are others that are very small and very targeted—or there is a study to realize which side it is justified, because otherwise there is the feeling that there are services that have enthusiastically adhered to what was the Minister's plan and that there have been other services that will finally share more of the convictions of your coalition colleagues and are a little more reluctant, even because there is always the question of the loss of small powers, that nobody wants and often this integration implies that. I would therefore leave here, I would say, almost an alert to the fact that Simplex can be a bit of a "complicatedx", from an online point of view. Then I would also like to ask you the following: by choosing the example of two measures - and I believe that, at the closing stage, if there is no time left, as is not left, and if you do not get it in any other way, you can answer — namely, the Electronic Yellow Book, which is basically a platform for submitting and managing praises, suggestions and complaints, and another measure that is the public service evaluated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u55	They're not the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u56	I know they're not the same, but I think they're very related.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u57	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u58	Of course, Mr. President. What I ask is whether it will make no more sense to evaluate them together than to adopt this method, in which we have a huge catalogue of measures, and frankly they are a little similar to each other. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u59	Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u60	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Several governments have been promoting administrative modernization for 25 years, taking simplification measures. But are they always, in their global political activity, putting the citizen at the heart of public policies? Administrative modernization has, fortunately, been an area of continuity—and I greet the Minister for maintaining this continuity. This Government follows many measures from the former PSD Government / CDS, as the former Government also continued measures from the former Socialist Government and the former PSD Government. And this continuity is good because administrative modernization is important to citizens. Are we in favour of this Simplex? Yes, we are! How would we not be if he, to a large extent and to a large extent, is a continuation of implementation, is to continue the implementation of measures, which we ourselves, PSD, in the last government, launched, prepared, done, implemented? Oh, my God! Yes, this Simplex is a worthy act of propaganda of what is essentially continuity and also of some new and important measures. Yes, so that there are no ambiguities, the PSD welcomes the Government and the Minister for this initiative and continues the policies of administrative modernization. It is good that they do so when they want to open in Paris another area of the citizen, a product created by the previous government and which has already installed 400 throughout the country, or when they pursue the Single Environmental Title, which the former Government has launched, created and developed, or when they call the "School 360o" to the School Portal, which the former Government has created, adding to it some additional facilities. I could continue to refer to the 16 most important measures, in which about half of them were created by the previous government and which are continuing, or could refer to the other measures that present, in addition to the top 16 measures, where there are dozens of continuity, but I would rather praise the continuity and common bet that unites us in administrative modernization. Yes, the previous government has done a lot with the Citizen's Portal—there are more than 400 citizen spaces that Portuguese can already benefit across the country — with e-factory, the digitization of health services, the Citizens' Map, the simplification and enormous misburocratization in the main areas of economic, industrial, commercial, environmental and tourism activity. Yes, this has been done long before, and I wish the government to continue. But is this Simplex enough? Is this Simple enough to be able to say that the government is putting the citizen at the centre of public policy? I can't believe it! in fact, I often feel that the Minister, with her capacity, which I recognize, is alone in a government that has a different objective. Forgive me for my grace, but it seems, many times, that Dom Quixote is fighting windmills, and these windmills are the contravention that his government colleagues are doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u61	You know what he's talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u62	Why do I say that? Because in administrative modernization it must be the State to reorganise itself in favour of the citizen. They cannot be the citizens, as a user and contributor, to lose and have to adjust to the path that, after all, we see, this government is making us think, yes, in the state, thinking, yes, in its enlargement and not in the real service to the citizen. They explain how the citizen is placed at the centre of public policy when, even today, most left parties, in order to satisfy their agreement, decided that public services could close early and citizens could have less time to care for some workers than most Portuguese workers have to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u64	How are the citizens putting in the center of public policies when they restrict the public provision of essential services such as health and education—yes! — when do they force the user to move to a lower quality service or when they force the taxpayer to pay more? For what? In order for the Government to fulfil its commitment from the left of the public monopoly and to protect corporations. How is the citizen being placed at the centre of public policy when, in particular, they give in to corporate interests—yes! — when, for example, they agree to slow down activity in ports or bring back to the sphere of the taxpayers' purse inefficiencies in the management of transport systems in the areas of Lisbon and Porto? Modernizing the state is also digitizing and simplifying, but it is cutting bureaucracy, it is rejecting corporate interests, whether private or public. The State cannot protect any corporate interest. Looking at this government, and with the exception of the Minister, what do we see? I see a State increasing at the expense of the citizen, citizens losing quality in the services. I see companies having more cost of context and less conditions to invest, and, see, reality already shows that. Who pays? The citizens! We in the PSD believe in the role of the State and have done much to ensure that we have more public service with less charge for taxpayers, but this better public service should bet and should rely more on the Portuguese citizens' initiative, responsibility and cooperation. This is not an anti-Portuguese state. The Portuguese must be at the centre and be the reason for the existence of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u65	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u66	I will finish, Mr. President. Portugal needs a more modern state. But, Mrs. Minister, in addition to this important and laudable Simplex, your government is putting the state, not the citizen, at the heart of public policies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u67	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u68	Mr President, Mr António Leitão Amaro has just made an intervention characterized by two questions: one, perhaps by a large complex of guilt and therefore a self-criticism regarding the activity of the PSD and the Government of the PSD in the past;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u69	And you have reasons for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u70	...and the other, and even invoked here Dom Quixote, by such mills, who are more on this side than exactly on the side of the Simplex that we have here today. And, in order not to be at risk of having copyright problems here, I would like to remind the honourable Member of some of the statements he made about the Simple, this about that great capacity of the « we did», « we thought», « this is ours », in fact, there is almost a certain appropriation of government activity here. Who governs and who acts in the State does not act in accordance with party copyright, acts in function and in the interests of the citizens. So, I can't see that your concept of ownership is so serious and so...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u71	Mesquinha!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u72	... big on the authorship of measures. With regard to the declaration of social security remuneration, I recall what you said, and your words are : « We had a working group already in place ». Regarding, for example, the Citizen's Space at the consulate in Paris, the honourable Member said: « I was in the electoral programme of the PàF ». Yeah, but the Portuguese don't want the PAF electoral program!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u73	They wanted, they wanted!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u74	On the automatic IRS, he said: « Yes, he is a descendant of other measures ». On the paperless recipe and the marking of online consultations, his words were : « They were almost ready». But we've got more! On the bulletin of electronic vaccines, « I was in preparation». I mean, all this stuff is all about things that were meant to be done, but... I'm sorry, but they didn't.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u75	Would you like to finish, Mr. Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u76	And what we are doing here today is talking about the ability to execute, the ability to do, and, on this matter, I have no doubt that the Simple, in the Government of the Socialist Party, will not allow us to have the speech that we can have today with regard to the PSD within three or four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u77	Mr Fernando Anastácio, Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro has no time to answer, so the request for clarification is made. Mrs. Members, moving to the closing stage of the debate, have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this final stage of the debate it is important to start by valuing the work and the efforts carried out by the government to build a participating project. We refer not only to the meetings that the government has previously promoted with citizens, autarchs and associations, in order to identify the main problems that users face in their relationship with the Administration, but also to the possibility that citizens are given to participate in the construction of this project through an electronic address or website and thus to provide suggestions for measures arising from their own contact with the Administration. It is then necessary to ensure that, in environmental matters, there will be no more facilities with regard to compliance with environmental rules. It is agile, it is deburricated, it is simplified, but it is not deregulated. This is, for us, a fundamental point in this debate. We will therefore hope that this Programme will have a positive impact on people's lives and that it can, at the same time, translate a reduction in costs for administration and that it can also benefit from the environmental and our natural resources. As we have already mentioned, legislative and administrative simplification cannot be synonymous with deregulation, it is necessary to simplify the procedures but without compromising the objectives which the law intends. In other words, bureaucracy must be combated, yes, but this fight cannot allow automatic legalization of certain investments. The alleged agility of the licensing of tourist enterprises cannot be synonymous with ease in environmental matters. The possible creation of an environmental fund that concentrates other existing funds, such as the Portuguese Carbon Fund, the Environmental Intervention Fund, the Water Resources Protection Fund or the Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Fund, to be held, cannot make it difficult to perceive the destination of the funds from these same funds. On the other hand, protected areas and natural parks, following the de-investment of which they have been targeted, have been losing capacity over the years. And it is therefore necessary to reverse this trend, above all, marked by de-investment. It is necessary to establish populations living in these areas, stimulating sustainable development practices, and to create compensation mechanisms for those living in protected areas. The Greens understand that it is possible to reconcile more efficiency in the provision of public services, taking advantage of new technological potentials, and at the same time to value the protection of the environment and our natural resources. Simplifying has to mean regaining people's trust and close relationships. Simplification must be assumed as an essential condition for us to be able to walk towards sustainable public services capable of meeting people's expectations when they deal and when they look for the state. It is good to know that the Government wants, for example, to create conditions to be able to request the Citizen's Card and have a family doctor right at the time of birth in a single counter and in all hospital units. It is good to know that dependent, retired or retired workers will no longer be forced to deliver the IRS declaration by next year. This was only to give some examples of the positive reflections this Programme can have in people's lives and day by day. But we stress what is absolutely essential for us in this debate: legislative and administrative simplification cannot be synonymous with deregulation. It is necessary to simplify the procedures, but in order to ensure the objectives which the law aims, in particular, but not only in environmental matters. It is possible to speed up and simplify the public administration and public services provided to Portuguese and, at the same time, to preserve and value our environmental heritage and our natural resources. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u79	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: All measures aimed at facilitating the lives of the Portuguese people and aimed at modernising and improving access to services and functions of the State deserve our full support from the Group of the Communist Party. The 255 measures presented here are cross-sectional to various areas and services of the Public Administration and can be a step towards a better and more friendly Public Administration of the citizen. There is, however, a set of premises without which we will be talking about the destruction of the State and not the modernization and improvement of the responses that the State gives to the Portuguese. The first premise is that there is no modernization of the State without the valorization of public administration workers and respect for their rights. PSD and CDS, in the previous government, attacked rights, stole wages and worsened the working conditions of public administration workers, not to modernize or improve services but to dismantle, weaken and destroy public services. It is therefore important in this process of modernization of the State to deepen and further take the path of appreciation and respect for workers' rights. For the CFP it is clear that there is no modernisation of the state without workers with rights and motivated to do so. The second premise is the defence and security of personal data. The use of private individuals, such as CTTs, for the Citizen Area, private enterprise, or systematic resource to private companies, to create and manage computer applications and databases weaken the State, threaten data privacy and may pose a threat. The State cannot remain dependent, I would say that the State cannot be hostage to private individuals who aim for profit rather than public service. The third premise is the assumption by the State of all responsibilities and does not transfer to third parties responsibilities that are theirs. The paradigmatic example of what happened, of throwing responsibilities that are from the state to the local authorities, as did the PSD and CDS-PP, purely and simply, cannot happen. Fourth and last, and perhaps the most important, premise: the modernization of the Public Administration meant closing public services for the PSD and CDS. The idea that the on-line or call center solve the problems and thus enable close public services of proximity is the logic of those who want to destroy the state and not those who want to improve the response capacity. It should be borne in mind that a large part of the Portuguese population does not have access to the Internet, so we must maintain and extend public services of proximity. It should also be noted that online services or telephone services have to respond to needs. Today we found that many of the distance responses, promoted by the PSD and CDS-PP, meant denial of access to public administration or insufficient access to public administration. Thus, for this Simple, the modernization of the state is neither, nor can it be, synonymous with less state or closure of services. Having said this, we understand that, while these premises are being met, we can be faced with a set of measures that can help the Portuguese daily, they can improve the citizen's relationship with the Public Administration. The challenge we are facing is clearly one, it is to carry out this gigantic book of charges respecting these premises. If so, it will indeed be given a giant step towards solving some of the problems faced by Portuguese people on a daily basis. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u81	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is the real simplification, approximation, creation and deepening of a culture of service to the citizen within the State will, of course, always have the agreement of the CDS. But we are left here with some questions about the practical and practical functioning of several measures and whether they will actually simplify them. in the same way, we also recorded, I would say, almost the contribution that the government has shown, since it is the first stage of advertising of the Simplex, in which it was simply said: « the Simplex », this Simplex, the Simplex + defined the problems and designed the solutions ». Today, we realize that it was not exactly this way, that it was a continuous work, and still well, because that's how it must be, it's too bad that you've tried to pass the exact opposite idea. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u83	It is also important to say that a real reform of the State is much more than a Simplex. This does not mean that the Simple is not good, that is to say that the reform of the State is more than this, it is to reorganize the State at least. And it is not surprising that in all of this programme, in all these measures, and there are more than 250, there is no state department that changes its operation, an organ that is reformulated, a small section that is merged, a service that extends its time or acquires new functions. Everything remains strictly equal, perhaps because one realizes that in the leftmost benches what has to happen is to keep everything exactly in the same, it is never touching the structure of the state. It is unfortunate that better serving the citizen was also to move in this structure and simplify the lives of citizens was also less often having the State interfering, in various ways, in their lives. Finally, there is also an important part that cannot be forgotten, and I would say that it is an example. There is a measure, which, in fact, I believe, has not been spoken here today, but on other occasions we have already spoken, which is the one set out on page 32 which is called "It costs how much? , which is basically to say that, whenever there is a legislative act, a diploma, an assessment of the economic impact of this diploma is made. Well, I think it would be important, in relation to this set of measures, to apply the measure to them. In the end, we will find out how much the application of these 255 measures will cost. Let it be very clear, Mrs Minister, from our point of view, this is well spent money.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u84	Ah! But she seems a little confused!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u85	Money spent on simplification is well spent money and it is money that has return, but that does not mean that it simply spends and does not wonder how much, when the program itself foresees that this is done. It does not cease to be unusually ironic that this is predicted and that it is simply forgotten. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Similarly, it is also ironic that this programme was not yet presented and already Mr Finance Minister spoke in more than 253 million: 70 million with the Approximar Programme and 183 million with administrative simplification. So I might have put a new measure there, not "save how much? Why do we already know, save 253 million, but « save where? », because I read the 255 measures and did not realize where it was going to be saved this year 1 million plus 253 million. You will be able to say to me: "But this is not the goal! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And I even agree that this is not the goal, now do not deceive people, saying what they will do, what will happen and that there will be a great savings here this year and then there is strictly nothing. Finally, I conclude by saying, and I think it is clear, that in order to seriously simplify you will always have the agreement of the CDS. Those measures that correspond to this will necessarily have our agreement, but in the same way they will have a demanding opposition in us that, either in relation to concrete measures or in relation to promises in the air, will always ask the right questions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u86	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate was warm, this issue, in fact, does not deserve any fundamental divergence between the parliamentary seats, but it deserves, yes, because it has made this fundamental divergence, a vision about the state, what it means and how we look at it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u88	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u89	I believe that the state vision that the PSD has just brought to the debate and that will be deepened, I hope, by Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, will deserve us a debate, that is, deep and concrete. The PSD recently said that these simplification and administrative modernization measures are, in fact, an attempt to have more state and that they did not agree, and we understand and understand why. It is that, over four years, PSD and CDS have walked hand in hand to destroy the state in our country. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] For example, what happened to public school, over four years they wanted to be more private and less State in public school. See what happened in the National Health Service, in which over four years they wanted more private and less public service from the National Health Service. over four years they always shot public servants, wanting less state, pointing their fingers at them and telling them that the private ones were that they could have the state mordomies. In fact, there is a deep debate, a debate that separates us and in which we do not agree. PSD and CDS had a legacy of four years to destroy the state and harm people's lives, and it is with that legacy that comes now to this debate. But still, they wanted to have a small pin on the lapel, so welcome that they walk from the pins they used when they were government. And they said: "But there are measures that are ours! There are measures that are ours and the government cannot now say that it has copyright on them! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, neither did this government say that it invented the wheel, nor did history begin when it took possession, and yet there are previous measures by other governments. What is wrong, and this is the basic accusation, is that the previous government has done nothing important in this matter to simplify.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u90	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u91	For example, has justice made justice in our country simpler? No, it has made justice worse in our country! He has turned people away from justice! Courts closed! It is today more expensive and more difficult to have access to justice, fruit of the PSD legacy and CDS. Has it made administrative acts more accessible? Reduced costs? Has access to these administrative acts become easier? Don't! on the contrary, it increased the cost of administrative acts,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Cristas.]] ...has reduced and postponed the waiting times. This is the difficulty of the PSD legacy and CDS. But I believe that we will not come to the end of this debate without the PSD, again, swinging with the 35 hours of weekly work in the Public Administration. Perhaps you will ask the honourable Member: how much is it? On the contrary, we ask: how much did it cost the PSD, how much did it cost the CDS, how much did it cost the country—because we know that the PSD and CDS were willingly—to have this permanent conflict with work in our country? How much did this conflict cost workers who were entitled to wages, pensioners who were entitled to pensions because they worked, because they had made discounts for a lifetime, and that the PSD and the CDS always wanted to attack? This is the concrete reality of the choices, but to welcome the concern of the CDS, I would like to say that we accompany the modernization of the state, but not without caution, without worry, because we must be humble when we look at this matter. We must be humble to know that often too great a leap is harmful.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u92	But the Left Block didn't have an idea, a proposal, a suggestion! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u93	For example, we see the legacy of Citius in justice and how this legacy has been detrimental to justice. Therefore, we insist on the questions that we put, such as the guarantee of the protection of data confidentiality, the guarantee that the clouds that will be running around are under national law and, therefore, the data that are there are safeguarded by national law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u94	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u95	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, we insist on ensuring redundancy systems because greater modernization cannot be the administrative dehumanization of the State. We therefore insist on redundancy systems, which should allow problems to be solved, which are often the most difficult to solve, because computer systems are highly standardized but poorly permeable to the exception, and these solutions are, in fact, parallel to administrative modernization. With these concerns, we have fulfilled the fundamental assumption in this matter: we must move forward in the direction of modernization and take advantage of the opportunities of technology, but ensure that no one stays behind, as the PSD/CDS Government has been for four years. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u96	On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin this final intervention to greet the Minister and her team for the courage to present this programme. This programme was developed according to a completely innovative methodology, i.e. it was not drawn up in ministerial offices, it was drawn up on a tour of the country, listening to the main stakeholders, the citizens, companies, the city halls, the business associations, and appointed responsible in each ministry. contrary to what has been mentioned here today, this is a programme directed by this ministerial team but transversal to all ministries, and this is an innovation of this programme, in fact, there are responsible in all sectoral ministries for the implementation of the programme. Each measure clearly identifies the problem you want to solve and has an associated schedule. Now, this means something that we are not used to in the Public Administration that is to define goals, calendar them and allow them to be evaluated. That is why it takes a lot of courage to present this programme, which will certainly be successful and will remain in the memory of citizens and businesses. We spoke here today whether this would be the reform of the State or not. It depends on what we think is state reform. If by reform of the State we understand something that has already been suggested here today, i.e. the union of public services, mergers, restructurings, instability, partial privatization of social security, partial privatization of education, no, that is not then the reform of the State. But if by reform of the State we understand a change in the culture of the exercise of public functions, if we intend to serve citizens and businesses and not serve the State itself, then this is undoubtedly part of that reform of the State. Some Members have asked in this House what the strategy here would be. The strategy is very clear and only does not understand who did not look at the Simplex with any detail. It is intended that there is a legislative simplification, it is intended to rationalize public services and resources, that it is an example of the measure of identifying the State's cultural heritage for information and management of spaces where cultural events can be held, finally knowing what the State is and what its heritage is to improve and streamline public resources, and it is to put the citizen at the centre of public policies, facilitating his life, putting the company at the center of public policies, facilitating and reducing his costs. The Minister began her speech by speaking in a letter received by her mother, who is 94 years old. Sometimes in this House, we forget that the country has grown old and, in fact, demands the elderly obligations, responsibilities, sending letters to them as if they were 60 or 70 years old. We are talking about a population that will be growing in the future, that will be 80, 90 or up to 100 years old, and that must be helped. in this sense, measures such as the change of address at once or the simplification of the IRS, by default, without prejudice to preserving the fact that some want to donate to certain institutions of public utility, all this must be done and will make life easier for the citizens. I would end by saying the following: Simplex is, in fact, I have no doubt, something that will remain in the memory of the citizens and entrepreneurs of this country, for the progress that will be achieved in the lives of businesses and in facilitating the lives of citizens. The PS wants a better state to serve the citizens and the Simple is a fundamental tool for this design. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u98	For the closing intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Many of the measures included in the Simplex are undeniably positive for citizens and businesses. Many represent continuity in relation to the policies of the previous governments, and well, since this is an area in which Portugal has deserved international recognition and in which it has been possible to obtain broad consensus among political parties. The PSD therefore welcomes the Government's continued efforts. Thus, democracy is only strengthened, and loses when the words of order are to revoke, reverse or reverse, as a sort of "tail" to ensure the survival of personal political projects. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u100	But, as has already been said, here, the Simple is not, at all, the reform of the state. It is not even a substantive structural reform, capable of solving problems that prevent our growth or the sustainability of our public finances. It's a useful tool, but that's all. What worries the PSD, and I believe that many Portuguese are concerned, is the absence of the structural reforms still needed to be done, as well as the reversal of many that were implemented by the previous government and that even in the words of the current Minister of Finance, they would need time to produce effects.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u101	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u102	Today, the OECD has updated its forecasts for the Portuguese economy, joining increasingly numerous voices that alert to the unrealisticity of the macroeconomic scenario of the State budget for 2016 and to the unsustainability of the path that this majority is imposing on Portugal. The OECD stresses that the increase in consumption resulting from the replacement of income for the population will be hampered by the inability to create jobs and stresses with main concern the fall in investment due to high corporate debt, the fragility of the banking sector, but also note, political uncertainty and the lack of willingness to continue implementing structural reforms. Simplex doesn't solve any of this. The Banco de Portugal had brought us a black outlook on investment in 2016, with almost zero growth, but the OECD, based on more recent data, already foresees an effective fall in investment this year, openly criticizing the decision to interrupt the planned decline in IRC. More: the OECD highlights the still strong segmentation of the labour market and limited competition in the energy, ports and services sectors as impediments to productivity growth and stresses that the risks we face are mainly internal. Simplex doesn't solve any of this. And what does this majority do? Reverts labour reforms, increasing unemployment, giving in to the most influential and / or closer to some of the parties that compose it, destroys trust and pushes investors away,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u103	... and defends consumption-based growth that will only benefit countries like Germany.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u105	The OECD is unfortunately not telling us anything again. We have already had these policies, these guidelines in Portugal, and we are all very reminded of their results. [[PS protests.]] We hope that more authorized voices to alert the risks can make this majority backtrack and restore Portugal to a convergence path for Europe. Simplex doesn't do anything about this. And I must say, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, while I hope for this retreat, I have very little hope. The reforms that our country needs remain absent from the majority proposals and our openness to a serious debate continues to have no echo. When is a discussion on the urgent social security reform, a substantive reform that supports pensioners today and tomorrow? For when is a serious discussion on education that defines, once and for all, a model that ensures a future of qualified Portuguese, and not this constant undo what has been done? When does a tax policy agreement give foreign investors confidence to bring to Portugal the capital we need so much to grow? Simplex doesn't solve any of this.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u107	Looking at the six months of government of this majority, the highlight is for what it defuses, it has reverted, it has erased, in such a hurry that one perceives the fear that they do not have enough time to implement their strategy of not leaving stone on stone, that there may not be time to satisfy all the particular interests, sectarians, with which they are committed. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] The Portuguese perceive it, they perceive it - those who observe us from outside with increasing apprehension. So many sacrifices we have made for now are so lightly wasted. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u108	For a closing intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, Maria Manuel Leitão Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is worth remembering the objective with which Simplex was made, because otherwise we are always here in a discussion about something else next to it and not about the objectives of the program,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...which, in fact, is a demonstration of who has nothing to say about the program. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Simple has been made with clear objectives: to increase the quality of public service, for those who believe that it is necessary to keep it efficient, modern, relevant for citizens, on an equal basis; to reduce the cost of context unnecessary for the various economic activities; and to what state can be more efficient in its internal procedures and in how it provides its services. Simplex was built listening to people, listening to citizens, companies, social partners, authorships, associations and listening to and working with public officials on an ongoing basis. Participation was not, for us, a process of mere 'façade' communication or circumstantial opportunism. Participation is to have courage, space and time to listen to criticism,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...knowing that not all can give immediate answers, and also to hear opportunities for improvement. That is why one of the measures in this programme is called the Right to Simplex, which will be implemented by means of a letter containing the rights of citizens before the Public Administration and the services provided by it. To say that the Simple which does not pass from a mere continuity of measures already in progress is to know at least what was actually in progress. It's not our case. We recognize and value what we found,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u110	It was very little!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u111	... contrary to what happened in 2011. We went to the services to see the details carefully, to see what was missing, what could be done to improve. We wished until it was more than what was actually found. in fact, the laws are of the Republic and must be fulfilled while they are in force, and the brands and platforms are of the Public Administration and not of any government, are registered on behalf of the State and not of one party or two. They were paid by the citizens. Have you ever seen if the citizen's stores were owned by the PS government that created them? Those who did not realize the advantages of having a program made in this way, with the priorities that each one would like to value, integrated, involved, done with the officials and leaders of the Public Administration in great proximity, working with the authorities and regional administrations, did not realize how it could develop more quickly in this area. For four years, there was no Simplex or any equivalent program with another name. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am sorry to say this and, as you know, I have already said it, I will never reject or abandon the good measures of the previous government. In fact, if someone said that I was out there in international forums where I participated, I was even ashamed to say that there was no Simplex, he said the truth. The Simple is, first of all, a change of culture that requires continuity, cannot be done all in six months, probably not in one year, not in two, not even in four months. It is a change that seeks to guide services to citizens in many ways, integrating platforms through the interoperability platform, which has this function, which does not prevent it, Mr President. Members, their autonomous development, in some cases even required due to data separation. What matters is that access to electronic services is enhanced through a single point, preferably through a single authentication, which we seek to respond through the Authentication measure. Gov. This is a change that is made by giving modern responses to the needs of citizens and businesses who have become more and more demanding in view of the results we have already obtained in the past or their experiences in other public and private services. This is a change that should be able to generate a new confidence in the State, a present and efficient State, which should not be confused with a minimal state. For these reasons, the Simple is an important part of the reform of the state — which, in fact, is something we could discuss very much, that we talk a lot, but we do not know very well what we are talking about —... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... as an active arm that demonstrates on the ground, on the day-to-day of people, on the day-to-day of employees, the possibility and advantages of having quality public services. It is not about questioning the functions of the State, it is about systematically innovating how these functions are performed so that they remain sustainable and relevant. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been here six months and not four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are not accounting for what we've done in the past four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u112	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u113	We cannot solve everything and we know that we do not solve everything, not even all the suggestions that have already been put to us, but we will think of them. To understand the Simplex, it is therefore necessary to value the public service. Anyone who believes that the public service can be replaced with an advantage by the private, of course he does not need to worry about such programs. They will always be a cost and not a benefit. It will always be an unnecessary effort. The Simple is therefore not vague ideas, scripts about the reform of public services, it is not a law or even a code that decrees the shift from top to bottom. Simple is a clear, detailed commitment with measurable goals and objectives. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a risk, technical and political programme, as has already been said, by the boldness of the measures it receives, by the culture of compliance with the deadlines which it requires, by transparency and by the regular provision of accounts it takes. It is a risk assumed by the Public Administration that is involved in it. It is also a risk assumed by the government, which understood that this risk of advertising is indispensable to improve the lives of citizens more and more quickly, to reduce the cost of context for businesses more and more rapidly, to make Portugal a more competitive country, a country where we like to live, work, invest or even grow old, not needing more letters like the one I started my intervention with. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u114	Mrs. Members, finished the thematic debate on administrative modernization, Simplex programme, we moved to the second point of the agenda, with the discussion, in general, of Bill No 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Return of cultural property which has been unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Union, transposing Directive 2014 / 60 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014, together with draft resolution No 335 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a )............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. To present the bill on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u115	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Members: Bill No 10 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) that the Government is presenting to this House, is the transposition of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which is reflected in the text of the bill. The aim is to strengthen the duties of cooperation between the various Member States in order to prevent the illicit trade in cultural goods, to ensure the return of goods which have been unlawfully returned from their territories. It is a question of broadening the object of the system of restitution of cultural goods, since it is no longer required that the goods be integrated into specific pre-defined categories and subject to criteria of monetary value and antiquity. It is necessary to clarify the conditions for payment by the Member State of fair compensation to owners of good faith, in the event of judicial action for the return of goods unlawfully removed from their territory, without prejudice to the State being able to claim reimbursement to those responsible for illegal departure. As provided for in the previous Directive, this scheme applies to illegal outputs of goods verified after 31 December 1992 and may, however, apply to previous outputs in case of reciprocity. We are therefore transposing into national law a directive of the European Union, which had already been overdue, but which we have now come to consider the legislative power. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u116	You now have the floor to present the draft resolution, Mr Jorge Campos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u117	Mr. President, Minister for Culture, Mrs. Members : Defending and preserving heritage and cultural property is, for the Left Block, a priority task. Without them the references are lost, the memory fades, the identity dilutes. And the identity of who we are in their diversity is inseparable from a common design that can only be defined by citizenship. Without this consciousness, being negligent before the representations in which we are seen, it is easy to succumb to the swamp where everything is bought and sold. We reject that vision. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in recent years, Portugal has been poorer in many ways and also in the symbolic plane. I'll remind you of two episodes. Carlo Crivelli, one of the great masters of the Renaissance. His masterpiece Virgin with the ChildSaint Emidio, São Sebastião, São Roque, São Francisco de Assis and the Blessed Tiago da Marca, invented as well of public interest since 1970, and in the possession of a well-known entrepreneur, left the country in 2013. How was that possible? On 19 June 2012 the Secretary of State at that time authorized the export of the work without any supporting documents. More: without any measure that would nullify existing legal protection. It is true that the decision was subsequently repealed, but the table was already in place, and it is abroad. Second episode: the attempt to loyalize, in London, 85 paintings by Joan Miró, of the BPN collection. By pressure from political and cultural agents, the business, happily, aborted. But in any case, Crivelli and Miró, there was at least a disastrous action of political decision makers, with the inevitable loss of institutional credibility that such situations result. For this reason, the Left Block welcomes the submission of the Government's proposed law, which transposes to the domestic legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural goods which have been unlawfully removed from a Member State. For us, it is clear the need to strengthen the devices for the recovery of these goods. But it is also clear that there is a need to safeguard its exit, and this prevention will be all the more effective the more rigorous the inventory of what we have. from there the project that the Left Block presents. The proceedings of the Boards of Miró, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it has demonstrated the vulnerability of public services to the political will of the moment. Therefore, we need to know what is the real estate held by the State, through Parvalorem, Parups and all companies and assets included in the nationalization perimeter of BPN. At the same time, we also need information on what is happening with the extinction of the Ellipse Foundation and, as far as we know, at least part of it remains without technical follow-up. Thus, the inventory of the works of art of the BPN and BPP espolios is a requirement for the protection of cultural heritage, but also of the control of capitals. The market for works of art, particularly exposed to speculative operations of money laundering, is based throughout Europe on strict legislation on inventory and export.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u118	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u119	I will finish, Mr. President. Introducing these good practices also in Portugal will certainly be an important step in the recovery of the credibility and legitimacy of public services of culture and culture to reassume the centrality of citizenship. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u120	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mrs Teresa Caeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u121	Mr President, Mr Minister for Culture, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: With this initiative, the Government intends to transpose into the domestic legal order Directive 2014 / 60 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council, relating, as Mr Minister has already said, to the return of cultural goods which have been unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Union. It is worth mentioning — and I think that we will all agree there — that cultural goods are one of the fundamental elements of civilization and the culture of peoples, as well as an axis of affirmation of their intrinsic identity, and that they only acquire their true value when they are known more precisely their origin, their history and their traditional environment. And it is in fact a duty of the State to protect the heritage of cultural property in its territory from the dangers of theft and export when it is illegal. This protection must be organised both internally and internationally and requires close cooperation between the Member States. in the European Union, with the opening of borders and the free movement of goods within the European Union, it has indeed become necessary to adopt regimes which would allow the protection of the mobile cultural heritage of the Member States against illicit trafficking. since it has already been the transport of directives from the Council and, after several amendments to its initial texts, has proved insufficient, and changes have been necessary and shortcomings have been corrected. with regard to this proposal and to the purpose of the mutual recognition of national laws on the protection of movable property, in particular in the part which relates to the exit of the territory, there is no longer, as set out in the proposed law, a limit laid down by the criteria for inclusion in pre-defined categories of their monetary value and their antiquity, as well as — and now I will quote the text — «Constitution duty of the Portuguese State (...) to ensure that any cultural property originating from the territory of another Member State (...) ». We understand that this is a measure that becomes necessary and increasingly urgent, because we have seen several cases in which this happens. In any case, we believe that the text still lacks corrections, refinements and clarifications for which the CDS will be available in the Commission discussion. I make a brief reference to the draft law of the Block of Left, in which the inventory of the cultural goods of Parvalorem, Parups and other assets included in the perimeter of the nationalization of BPN, as well as of the Ellipse Foundation and other assets to the custody of the State. We all know the history of what has happened to these institutions and do not reject the principle that there is a duty by the State to undertake an inventory of these cultural assets, either under the protection of the State during the process of nationalization of BPN, or during the process of recovery of the Banco Privado Português. We have some reservations regarding a classification, with all that this implies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u122	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u123	I will finish, Mr. President. ... but we will have the opportunity, I think, to review all these procedures within the Commission and give our agreement, in accordance with what we consider more consensual and more cautious. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u124	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There is in the world a museum of gigantic dimensions that cannot be visited. from its vast collection, are Rembrandt and Picasso, jewels of the Portuguese crown, thousands and thousands of pieces and artifacts of the archaeological espólio of monuments and sites, abundant sacred art. The latter section will have a non-depositing contribution from our national heritage translated into repables, altars, chairs, tiles and architectural elements of stone. Still, in the neoliberal perspective, such as scarce, unique and extremely valuable goods, these elements constituting memory, common and collective identity are thus transfigured into highly desirable and highly profitable commercializable objects for their private owners. The illicit trade in property includes different activities such as the specialized trade in stolen goods, the appropriation and marketing of works of art unknown to the authorities, purchases and sales outside of fiscal and documentary control, exports that result in the illegal retention of works and artifacts, among other examples. Policing and illicit trafficking causes irreparable damage to cultural heritage, which is often aggravated by the lack of catalogues and inventory of goods from public and private institutions. The inventory, in particular, has been signalled as an instrument to defend cultural heritage of enormous importance by international entities such as UNESCO and the ICOM ( The International Council of Museums ). Also hesitations, regarding the classification of mobile and immovable heritage, have contributed to the further weakening of the regime of protection of many of these so-called "cultural goods", which, in particular, in cases where there is great artistic or associated heritage value, have become more vulnerable. in the complex web of art trade and antiques it is current to mix works and artifacts of legal origin and illegal origin, spreading the need for control and control by legitimate channels and knowledge and access, more or less public, as well as the whole panoply of clandestine circuits. It also adds the whole extension of the virtual world, whose role in this phenomenon is inevitable. Another fact which stands out is that historically the countries that have been more polished than their cultural heritage are those that have less economic power and those who have less capacity to defend the plunder to which they have been subjected over the years. If we look at the European Union and make a brief memory effort, recalling cases that have been very noisy in our country for a very long time now, it is easy to see where we are positioned and the attention that this theme should deserve us. In view of our precious cultural and artistic heritage, our country has been paying some attention throughout history to the protection of its heritage, dating from 1686 the inventory of the goods contained in the Royal Library, as an example. The greatest advance has undoubtedly been made with our Constitution of the Portuguese Republic which all involve in the duty to preserve, defend and value cultural heritage, a vivifying element of the common cultural identity. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u126	Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u127	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government has today submitted to the Assembly of the Republic the transposition of a directive on the return of cultural goods which have been unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State. It is indeed an important matter and we know the increasing threats we have had every day to preserve cultural heritage. In fact, the European Union has always devoted much attention to this problem, from the outset, in its Treaty, when it effectively allows it to restrict and even prohibit the importation of cultural goods. The fact is that the European Union has evolved in order to create Directive 1993/7 / EC which has somehow sought to establish mechanisms to help preserve this heritage, avoiding the exit of such goods from a Member State to another Member State illegally. however, with regard to the cooperation that has been instituted, and well, in this Directive between Member States and Interpol, several reports have come to say that this application was weak, i.e. that it did not have proper application and, as such, there was now a need to think more. And you didn't have due application why? From then on, because it placed categories in the goods, the deadlines for the proposed action were relatively short and also, and important, the costs of these same actions were very costly. Therefore, the European Union has, well, decided to move forward with this directive which we intend to transpose today. So, what's it supposed to be? In fact, it is intended to have more agile mechanisms, i.e. cooperation is intended to be much more effective with regard, from the very outset, to the elimination of the constraints that we all had. Limitations on antiquity and classification are no longer in existence, and this will, in fact, extend the possibility of combating very well the illegal departure and theft of such goods from one Member State to another Member State. Then there is also the intention to increase the deadline for the proposed action for three years, provided that it is known that it is well determined in a Member State, and also the increase in the six-month period so that one can in fact, knowing that it has been determined well, that it has come out of some Member State, is in that Member State to recognize it. It seems to me that we are on the right track, which is a growing concern. Now, Mr President, we are talking about the draft resolution of the Left Block, which entered the House last week and which, by drag, comes to the debate today. Mr President, it does not lead to harm, but there is a big misunderstanding here, when he says that the previous government has neglected « (...) basic obligations to preserve cultural heritage, (...) ». Mr President, I should like to remind you, with all due respect, that the former Government, in terms of classification of heritage, in particular, was the greatest classifier of heritage ever.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u128	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u129	Let me give you a number: there were 893 classifications made from 2011 to 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u130	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u131	Do you know how many were made between 2002 and 2011? It was 448! In other words, the former Government did more than twice as much, it did a remarkable job in this area. But, being here Mr Minister, it would be very important to realize what is the policy of ownership and acquisition of the government's mobile heritage, because we realize that this Ministry of Culture has a very low budget—we are talking about 174 million, excluding the budget of the RTP...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u132	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u133	I will finish, Mr. President. It is the lowest budget ever and it would be very important to understand what they will do with this money and what is the policy of acquiring mobile cultural goods. Mr Minister, we have not heard anything from you or your advisor. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u135	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has been assisted by a congregation of ongoing efforts and cooperation between all the Member States of the European Union to combat crime associated with the illicit release of cultural goods from their country of origin. It is, however, a matter of enormous complexity insofar as the illicit circulation of cultural goods is almost always anchored in the expertise of international networks that smuggle cultural goods, works of art, heritage. In order to protect the mobile cultural heritage against illegal trafficking in our country, as a Member State of the European Union, there is a need for regulation and updating of the matter under consideration, transposing to the internal legal order Directive 2014 / 60 of the European Union which is of particular importance, insofar as it will allow to overcome some of the limitations and shortcomings of the protection and defence regime of the collective cultural heritage, also giving effect to that established in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. As for the draft resolution of the Left Block, this legitimate evidence concerns with two important collections of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. Unfortunately, not yet available to the Portuguese public, although they have been constituted in Portugal for several years. But the situations of both are substantially different. The Miró collection belongs to a public entity. This government has already ensured that the inventory and classification process will take place. For this bench, there is no doubt about it, we only wait for this process to develop as quickly as possible. I remember here that it was thanks to civil society initiatives, and let me now highlight five PS Members who acted effectively, that this collection was preserved in Portugal. As for the Ellipse collection, it belongs to a private entity, but all the works are already invented, as is mandatory in an insolvency process, both those in Serralves, and those in Banco de Portugal. In addition, this collection, contrary to what the Left Block says, is not without technical follow-up, quite the contrary. The Lending Commission of the BPP has done everything to preserve it under adequate conditions, and there is no relevant degradation of the works, as attested by the reports. Having said this, we fight for the future of this collection to be enjoyed by the Portuguese and enriches the national artistic heritage. That would be the perfect epilogue for an episode more than imperfect in our country's recent financial history. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u138	Mrs. Members, let us turn to point 3 of our agenda today, which consists of the discussion of the projects of lein.o181/XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Prohibits the use of minors in Tauromachic ( PAN) shows, 217 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Prevents participation of under 18 years of age in professional or amateur Tauromachic activities and eliminates the category of bull killers ( BE) and 251 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restricts access to the practice of Tauromachic activities by making the first amendment to Law No 31 / 2015 of 23 April establishing the regime of access and exercise of the activity of Tauromachic artist and of Tauromachic show assistant ( The Greens ). To present the bill, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Citizens : We are debating the rights of children today. It is not a question of agreement here or not with the Tauromach industry, but only whether the work of minors in this industry violates the rights of children and contrary to the provisions of the Labour Code which states that "Works which, by their nature or by the conditions under which they are provided, are harmful to the physical, psychic and moral development of minors are prohibited". And in this case, we are convinced that it is. This is also the conviction of the entities which protect the rights of children and young people and which, very conveniently or, better, shamefully, were ignored during the discussion of the current law, which is proposed today. Do we want to protect the best interests of children or the Tauromach industry? Among other things, the Committee on the Regulation of Access to Professions argues that, since the legislation laid down compulsory education up to 18 years of age, then they should also participate only in this type of individual activities whose compulsory education is already completed, which at the age of 16 does not happen. The UN Committee on the Rights of the Child recommended that the Portuguese Government prohibit the participation of children in tours as participants or spectators. I hope that each of the Members who do not vote in favour of this bill will be aware that it is also responsible if a minor dies or is seriously injured to pursue an activity which is unquestionably dangerous, since it will certainly not be the responsibility of the minor or the bull. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The greatest atrocities of history were committed under the aegis of the law. The fact that the Tauromach industry is legal does not mean that subjecting minors to this violent activity is appropriate, fair or legitimate. If that were the case, there would be no evolution. The lack of approval of this bill reveals total disregard for the fundamental rights of children to a healthy, safe development that allows them to grow up to be adults who respect the dignity of all beings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u140	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u141	We hope today that, on the World Day of the Child, Mr. Members prove that they are more important. [[Congratulations from BE, PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u142	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would suggest some serenity in this debate, because I think that is what is needed. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u144	The bill submitted by the Left Block refers so much to the limitation of participation in towers of under 18 years of age. The State has an obligation to protect minors from activities that promote violence, often with cruel aspects, on animals. And it is the violence and exposure of minors to this violence that is at the heart of our concerns. [[Protests by PSD Members and the CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] We understand that there is a pattern of traditionalism around the tours that we do not want to question for now, but which must be discussed in Parliament and in public opinion. This is also our contribution to this debate, which is subject to all the activities of our country and to which the tower cannot be exempted. We welcome the contribution to this debate, given by a petition, which seeks to prohibit the work and assistance of minors in Tauromachic shows, which entered the Assembly of the Republic on 16 December 2015 and which has obtained more than 20 000 subscribers, and only for procedural reasons is that it cannot be debated today, which we regret. The perception of our society about violence against animals has evolved—and today we have much more perception of this evolution—has awakened to the incontrovertible rights of animals not to be abused and tortured and more and more people do not accept that violence, real and explicit, is defended as a spectacle for the enjoyment of only a few. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]] Today no one would accept that any other animal, at least one of our pets, as some refer to bulls, would be placed in a space to be subjected to violence that some want to be playful. No one would advise their children, no matter how free the families are in their children's education, no healthy family...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u145	Healthy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u146	... would allow your children to participate in a show where any animal was violently tortured. Why should this be allowed in relation to a show with bulls who are violently raped? Oh, my God! [[All right!]] [[All right!]] [[What about boxing?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u147	With all due respect and high regard for the deep cultural roots of many rural territories... [[Doesn't look like it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u148	... and even of agricultural activities, we must not fail to do this debate,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... because, in fact, our society evolves and its conceptions on the rights of living beings also evolve and they cannot fail to be considered in law. It is our responsibility as the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u150	Until at least 18 years of age, the commitment and effort of our society must be to guarantee conditions for compulsory education. The great plan of the state must be to protect children from ill-treatment, poverty, the lack of a family that affects them and guarantees dignified living conditions...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u151	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u152	...for your physical, psychological and moral growth. That is the great design of the State, and that is our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. In the light of these designs and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, we also believe that allowing the work of minors in Tauromachic shows is a perverse contradiction that must be corrected by law. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u153	For an intervention, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens present today a bill to the Assembly of the Republic that aims to restrict access to the practice of Tauromachic activities. As it is known, and I think it is evident, a growing percentage of Portuguese people will become aware of the genetic aggressiveness of the Tauromachic spectacle, in particular directed to non-human animals, subject to obvious and degrading tortures, but also, in relation to the participants, it is generating ever-increasing intolerance to the show concerned. Although we, The Greens, are aware that intolerance, in relation to the tourdas, is not unanimous in our country, the truth is that, regardless of our position on this particular activity, there is an objective fact that no one denies: the tourdas are a violent and risky spectacle. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also good to remember that the Convention on the Rights of the Child determines that States have the responsibility to protect children from a set of aggressions, including the subjecting of dangerous or harmful work to their health, physical and mental development. in this context, this Convention determines that States have an obligation to create measures, including legislation, to ensure that protection for children. This is what The Greens are proposing to do here, in the Assembly of the Republic, with the bill they present. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we propose an amendment to the law to that effect, see well, to restore the text of the previous law before the date of application or amendment made in 2015. Concretely, this law provided that the so-called Tauromach artists could only be so if they were holders of compulsory education. However, the law was changed in 2015, establishing the age of 16 years. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u155	It means, therefore, that in practical terms, age has fallen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u156	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u157	...because compulsory education was in 12. year. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, considering 16 years of age, age has dropped. What the Greens are proposing is that the text of the previous law be resumed, and in that case we went up to 12. the year compulsory schooling, we went up to the age of 18, then we went up to the older ones and took the minors out of this degrading show—classified - so in the perspective of The Greens, knowing that other Mrs and Mrs. Members would not classify him that way. In any case, unanimity is in the violence and aggressiveness of this show. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] So, as I said, what we propose is that Tauromachic artists and assistants should be qualified with compulsory education. Now, the ladies and gentlemen. Members may say: "All right, but why not actually establish 18 years of age and keep the text that was in the law before? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u158	That's what made sense!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u159	It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Members, environmentalists have a mania, which is to believe very much in education and its most diverse perspectives. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] It's true! [[CDS-PP laughter.]] We believe that the school must have an important role in setting the mentality for tolerance, for non-violence and for greater interaction, with more respect for all the beings who, with us, inhabit this planet. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] And it is true, that is why we, The Greens, also want to contribute, to a more interactive and more respectful education of the environment and, in particular, nature. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the project we bring to the Assembly of the Republic and our hope is to see agreement on the part of the other parliamentary groups. However, I do not want to end this speech without first welcoming a petition — which also supported the animal association, to whom I would like to acknowledge the work you have done on this issue — which, of course, must be brought again to the Assembly of the Republic and which will also help in the reflection of the Assembly of the Republic on this matter. To discuss here, to promote the debate is always important and to provide answers is, of course, also crucial. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u160	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr André Pinotes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, first of all, that, on behalf of the parliamentary bench of the Socialist Party, health all those who are here, in the galleries, representatives of the Tauromachic activities and also of the rights of animals, as well as the presence of them in the defense of the convictions of the communities they represent. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u162	The basic theme, which we are now debating, has generated, over the past few years, passionate dialectic exercises and healthy democratic disputes that are no longer than the healthy confrontation between laudable but antagonistic interests, to which this House fulfils to establish balance. This is one of our achievements: balance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u164	It is therefore our responsibility to act under the aegis of tolerance, common sense, of the ability to consider in an integrated way the interests which I had recently referred to, which, being legitimate and reinforcing, are contentious between themselves. Dear colleagues, it should also be recalled that in the course of the XII Legislation this Chamber spoke on these matters under consideration, revising the legal framework and allowing, with the approval of Law No. 31 / 2015, the establishment of the minimum age of 16 years for the Tauromachic activities and the referral of the minimum age of fork and other amateurs to the Labour Code regime and for the intervention of the Child and Youth Protection Commission. This legal framework allowed the maintenance of an activity that, in many areas of our country, is an unquestionable cultural interest and, at the same time, the protection of a legal good of greater value, such as the right to the protection of animals. I'm saying again that the role of this House is that of balance. The legislative initiatives discussed here today aim to further change this framework and provide for the minimum age of access to these activities for 18 years, in parity with the majority. The solutions under discussion, if approved, would certainly have implications for the future development of Tauromachic activity, which cannot be scaled up. In this regard, recalling the changes of the past year, we must remember that the value of legislative stability, not constituting a wealth in itself, constitutes an important compass in our legislative action. in recent years, the legal articulation has evolved in a balanced way in the fair weighting of animal rights, as well as in the economic, cultural and social dimension of Tauromachic activities, and our opinion is that we should continue this gap. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make it clear that so far it has not been expressed. The subject under consideration gives rise to a few more careful interventions and some sacrifice of reason. So, finally, I want to convey to you that this is a matter which, in the understanding of the PS, needs further deepening, with the involvement of the forces I have just mentioned, to listen to the real concerns people have and the impacts that legislative changes have brought us, but at the same time, the Socialist Party gives its parliamentarians freedom to, as is their tradition, as is their practice for the richness of parliamentary debate, act in accordance with their conscience. Finally, I want to say that the Portuguese know that the only extremism that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is available to accept is the radicalism of promoting tolerance and divergent opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u166	This is a distinctive feature of our action and it is a commitment, a contract, which we have fulfilled with the Portuguese for over 42 years, and we will continue to fulfill it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u167	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The three documents that are currently under discussion want to prohibit the exercise of artist activity and to assist young people between 16 and 18 years of age. This is the same: changing the legal system of work only for an activity that has been registered in law since 1991 as a popular cultural heritage. After 40 years of a democratic revolution, where free expression and personal fulfillment have become a common lexicon in our conversations, today we discuss in Parliament the prohibition of the practice of activity enshrined in the law as a Portuguese culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u170	Curious: in the days of freedoms, the three parties proposing these documents tend to be the paladins of tolerances and freedoms; today, these documents discriminate against young people who depend on their duties and their personal achievements.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u172	In fact, the freedoms these gentlemen have. Members are defenders who are always the only ones for them and not those freedoms that the Portuguese defend. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Members, discrimination takes place in various ways, and in order to prove it, it is enough to see what the Left Block, for example, has already defended several times in this Parliament. In other words, BE defends that 16-year-olds have the ability to vote, who can decide who our rulers should be, who must be in front of our country,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u173	... but today it says that these same young people do not have the ability to decide whether or not they can be bullmach practitioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u175	The same Left Block has already argued that young people should have permission to smoke at the age of 16, to drink at the age of 16, even to consume cannabis at the age of 16, but they cannot be bullmach practitioners at the age of 16. [[PSD applause.]] The same Left Block, last week, presented to the Bureau a diploma which considers that from 16 years of age the right to self-determination of gender should be recognised to anyone. That is, a young man has the right to decide his sex, which conditions his future life, but he does not have the right to be a Tauromachian practitioner. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Members of the Ecological Party 'The Greens', it is true that compulsory minimum education must be a plan of all, but, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, today, there are ministers, there are chamber presidents, there are board presidents, there are painters, there are dancers who even to take the driving licence do not need to have compulsory education. So, Mrs. Member, how can compulsory education be required to be a Tauromachian artist? Oh, my God! [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] I have heard it for years and years that there were many young people who had difficulty in accessing education and that many young people want to have minimum compulsory education and cannot. How can these young people who wanted to study, who wanted to have minimum compulsory education, be discriminated against and today cannot be done professionally because they have not achieved it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u176	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u177	I did not expect that from the Greens, Mrs Deputies. Is that what they call equality for all? Is that what they call tolerance? Is that what they call freedom?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u178	All right! [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u179	Mrs. Members, assume and do not use young people, do not use subterfuges to take up your agenda. Your agenda is to call into question the bullfighting.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u180	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u181	Mrs. Members, they assume that they are at risk of giving reason to the Socialist Professor Vital Moreira and being considered 'political fraud'. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u182	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita spoke on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is the International Day of the Child, the CFP welcomes this commemoration that began several decades ago in order to draw attention to the problems faced by children. We take advantage of the serious problems that millions of children continue to live around the world, such as poverty, hunger, disease, lack of essential goods, denial of the rights to health, education, culture and social protection. These are central problems that affect children and we cannot turn our attention away from. For this reason, the PCP Parliamentary Group today delivered a set of projects with measures to expand the day-care system, to universalize pre-school education, to strengthen child and youth protection committees and also to combat child poverty, which affects one in four Portuguese children.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u185	With regard to the initiatives brought here, the theme of age for Tauromach practice was discussed in the last legislation and at that time the PCP questioned the then Secretary of State for Culture about an inserted change that would unlink the exercise of these activities of compulsory education and would associate it to a minimum of 16 years of age. The reasons for this amendment were never fully clarified and the CFP was the only party to vote against the inclusion of Article 3 ( 4 ). the Law No 31 / 2015. Also today several are the doubts that arise in the approach to this subject, particularly in terms of the separation of professional activities of amateur activities, the conditions in which the activity is performed by minors and the concrete application of what is approved in law. We continue to have doubts about the equivalence between professional activity and amateur activity, a situation that the proposals under discussion continue to fail to resolve.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u186	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u187	Another aspect to consider is the need for linkage between the legislation on the Tauromachy and that which already exists, regulating not only the provision of work by minors but also the practice of activities involving danger to minors or exposing them to violence. None of the proposals under discussion calls into question the classification of Tauromachy as an artistic spectacle which, according to the law, has its practice by minors regulated in the context of participation in activities of cultural, artistic or advertising nature, including the molds in which there must be contact with animals. Thus, the criterion strictly based on the age of work is insufficient and there is still a need for linkage with the existing legal framework for situations of possible danger or exposure to violence. The CFP considers that there should not be an isolated consideration of the so-called « situations of possible danger or violence for minors », recalling other examples such as motor sports or combat or even participation in other cultural and artistic performances, such as circus arts and film and television production that may, in certain circumstances, involve the exposure of minors to danger or violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u189	Finally, there is the problem of knowing under what conditions the monitoring of these proposals would be possible and what concrete consequences would result from their approval, considering practices and customs in many communities. As past experience shows, it is no solution and should not be considered as a good idea that by decree or by law the fate of what is meant by some communities as part of their popular customs and traditions should be determined. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u190	Mr Telmo Correia, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First and foremost, on behalf of the CDS, I would like to say that we are fully aware that this issue is not consensual in Portuguese society. Perhaps that is why it should not be determined by any policy of taste or by any kind of authoritarianism or prohibitionist threat like those we have seen here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u193	There are several sensitivities. There is the sensitivity of those who live the Tauromachy, who are amateurs, who live in the rural world, who grow with the Tauromachy, and that will be irreversible. On the other hand, there is the sensitivity of those to whom, always and in any case, the bullmach will be a form of violence against the animal. And there is, eventually, I do not know if it is a majority but it is a large part of the Portuguese who can occasionally watch a Tauromach show, who can accompany and who do not, however, defend the ban. however, what is the matter here? Violence against animals? Well, the law which provides for and which regulates violence against animals, Law No. 92 / 95, excludes precisely the bullfighting of this violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u194	Don't stop being violent!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u195	Except why? Except because, and I quote, « The race to Portuguese is a unique manifestation of the originality of the Lusa culture». These are not my words, these are words of an opinion of the ERC, at the time led by the current Minister of Defence. An expression of Portuguese culture—this expression of Portuguese culture makes the exception. But we can think, then, that this cultural reason, which has constitutional protection, is not enough and that what is at stake, in fact, are, as the prohibitionist projects of the NAP and the Left Block, the minors. And I ask, what are the minors at stake, but how? What's at stake? Do minors participate in a violent activity? Well, then why don't you bring a project that doesn't prevent minors from participating in boxing, in any martial activity, in any type of activity that can be violent? You don't because that's not what you want.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u197	What's the matter? The risk to minors? Mr. PAN has gone too far. The risk to minors? Well, then why don't you bring a project that prohibits minors from participating, even with parental authorization, because that's how you do it and who commands are the parents, it's not the state,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u199	...in motor sports or in sports in nature—in the mountain, in the sea...—in which can there be any kind of risk to minors? Why don't they? Why don't they do it? They don't because that's not what you want. You want to be culturally prejudiced to ban bullfighting and you do not have the courage to take it here. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] You want, for pure prejudice, to ban bullfighting and you have no courage to take it here. Well, I'm talking about projects that are banned. It's because you also forbid lovers, it's not just professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u200	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u201	No one begins to be a bullfighter at the age of 18. That's ridiculous, and you know that.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u202	Start when you're 10!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u203	In conclusion, Mr President, with regard to the Greens project, I would like to say to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia that her legislative initiative seems like a competition thing on the left, even by the position expressed by the CFP. Mrs. Member, say that the problem is that it is necessary to have compulsory education, it is ridiculous,... [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] I repeat, it's ridiculous. It's the same thing to say that a peasant or an airliner, a man who lived with bulls his whole life and is 40 years old but does not have compulsory education cannot be a bullfighter. [[CDS-PP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u204	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u205	This has nothing to do with minors. What is this? Is it possible to talk to the bull? Is it understanding Picasso or Goya? Is it going to be able to quote the bull in English? Why do you want compulsory education, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] What you want is to ban the bullfight in logic...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u206	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u207	... of some old commercial establishments in Portugal where the following could be read: « Do we sell credit? We sell, but you must be 90 years old and be accompanied by your parents». That's where you guys are going. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-01.u208	We thus concluded the debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 181, 217 and 251 / XIII ( 1. a ), third and last item of our agenda today. The plenary of the Assembly of the Republic will reconvene tomorrow at 3 p.m. with a CDS-PP marking on active aging and protection of the elderly. The following diplomas will be discussed tomorrow: in general, the projects of lein.o 244 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August, Law of the Economic and Social Council, in order to include in plenary two representatives of pensioners, pensioners and pensioners ( CDS-PP ), 245 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by exempting from the complaint the crime of violation of the obligation of food and aggravating its penalties ( CDS-PP ), 246 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by creating the successive indignity of those convicted of exposure or abandonment or omission of a food obligation ( CDS-PP ), 247 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 25 / 2012 of 16 July, extending the size of the living will to the planning of old age, in addition to the disease situation ( CDS-PP ), and 248 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code establishes the right of the worker who is one year from the legal retirement age to choose to work part-time for two years ( CDS-PP ), together with draft resolutions No 336 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review legislation so as to defend the elderly from abusive penalties and exclusions they are target by age ( CDS-PP ), 337 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend Ordinance No 87 / 2006 of 24 January revising the Voluntary Card procedure ( CDS-PP ), 338 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create additional incentives to support the hiring of unemployed over 55 years ( CDS-PP ), 339 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a career management plan for older workers ( CDS-PP ), 340 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop and implement a national strategy for active ageing and longevity ( CDS-PP ), 341 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government equate the private sector regime with the public sector, where it is permitted to continue working after 70 years ( CDS-PP ), 342 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government encourage the development of senior volunteering initiatives ( CDS-PP ), 343 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve and qualify the home support service ( CDS-PP ), 344 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider and consider extending the scope and powers of the current National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth ( CDS-PP ), 345 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government update the prices of health care and social support in the care and outpatient units of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care ( CNCI ) ( CDS-PP ), 346 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government react to the health line 24 Senior until the beginning of autumn ( CDS-PP ), 347 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an information campaign to disseminate and encourage the registration of the vital will in the main media and in all public services with places of service including authorities ( CDS-PP ), 348 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen training in palliative care in Portugal ( CDS-PP ) and 349 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the training of health professionals in the area of management at pre- and post-graduate level, particularly at the level of medical specialization ( CDS-PP ). At the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I wish everyone a very harmonious late afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 20 minutes.]]
