ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary meeting. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] The agenda for today's work includes three points: discussion of the legal standards, the vote on them and the continuation of the debate, in particular, of Bill No 12 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2016. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the following proposals were given by the plenary to discuss and vote on the speciality: 159 - C, submitted by The Greens, to delete Article 92. the proposal for a law; 54 - C, submitted by BE, amending Article 51 ( 1 ( a ). the ISV Code ; 87 - C, submitted by BE, amending Articles 92 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). the proposal for a law; 89 - C, submitted by BE, to add an article 113. o -A — Contributions of self-employed persons; 36 - C, submitted by the CFP, of the addition of Article 113. o -A — Suspension of the arrangements for updating the value of propines; 38 - C, submitted by the CFP, amending Article 106. the proposal for a law, 128 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, in the part in which it amends Article 68 (3) and (4). Article 69 ( 1 ), ( 2 ) and ( 5 ). the IRS Code, as set out in Article 114. the proposal for a law ; 131 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, amending Articles 87 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). the IRC Code, as set out in Article 117. the proposal for a law; 145 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, to add an article 140. the -A— Elimination of the increase in the tax on petroleum products; 9 -C, submitted by the NAP, amending Article 126. the proposal for a law; and 5 - C, submitted by the NAP, in the part in which it amends Article 114. The proposal of the law. The amendments are under discussion together. Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : Regarding the freeness of teaching and the importance of fulfilling this constitutional command, it is also important to value the approval by the Assembly of the Republic yesterday of a proposal from the CFP on the freeness of school textbooks and the progressive extension of this freeness to all compulsory education in a phased way, starting from 1. the year of 1. the cycle. The difference between approving or not the PCP proposals is also this: for a long time, by this time the families were already making accounts to know if they had money to buy the books for the kids to enter school on time and today we know that in this House of the Republic was approved, on a proposal from the PCP, the freeness of school textbooks for the 1st. year. By making the bridge for higher education, the CFP also presented, with regard to the costs of teaching and its freeness, a proposal, at the state budget’s special place, for the total freezing of the value of propines. It is true that the CFP is against the very existence of the tip, we believe that it is essential to eliminate this payment by families and students to ensure the democratity and freeness of teaching, but, given the context and the proposal presented, it would be decisive and would make all the difference for students and their families that the tip would not increase in the next school year. However, the Commission only partially approved the proposal of the CFP, freezing the update of the lower and higher limits of the value of the tip. The CFP believes that it is absolutely essential to give a signal to higher education students that institutions are prevented from being able to increase the value of propines, punishing those who are precisely those who must enjoy this right that should be free of charge. from the PCP, we again leave this challenge, this alert, for a day when students manifest themselves precisely by the freeness of higher education and by a set of other demands. It is absolutely essential to go further and also to approve the freezing of propines in all their values, whether or not they are fixed at the minimum or at the maximum limit. These are the differences which the approval of the CFP proposals makes, or which they can do, and it is essential to go further. The more proposals we can adopt in this respect, the better it can be for the Portuguese to live. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u3	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State budget for 2013 prohibited the free transport of workers from the transport companies themselves since they were not in service, as well as family members and reformers who had maintained that right. in the case of the railway, a concession regime with more than 100 years was extinguished, exacerbating the living conditions of many people, usually of very low resources. The right to free transport was never a privilege or a favor, as the right wanted to make believe and still today continues to affirm convincingly. The concessions have always been a right, an indirect counterpart for the work done. For the CDS / PSD government, the withdrawal of concessions was another step towards the embarrassment of work, but fortunately, he found the struggle of workers and their families. by speaking against their replacement, PSD and CDS make it clear what their Budget and program would be if they continued to govern. The abstention or vote against anything that is taken back says more to the right and to its hidden programme than all its rhetorical arsenal. What we are going to vote today is whether or not we respect the dignity of those who work or have already worked; whether or not we recognize that workers' rights are to be respected. The answer from the Left Block is unequivocal: yes. They're to respect! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u5	For an intervention, Mr. João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would naturally like to reaffirm the Socialist Party's position on the shores, and in this sense I would like to begin by welcoming the initiative of the Portuguese Communist Party to freeze the value of the shores. It is true that the Socialist Party does not fully review this proposal, but I had the opportunity yesterday to show the concern of the PS for the amount of tips that are today a very considerable burden on the access and frequency of students in higher education. Today, there is indeed an excessive burden on students to attend higher education, and this is precisely one of the collective designs that should unite us most about the qualification of our citizens and our citizens. from the viewpoint of the Socialist Party, the proposal that we presented, and which was approved yesterday, is already a symbolic but effective achievement, in order to open a new discussion in Portugal on how, to what extent, the propines are indeed an obstacle, so that we have more students in higher education. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also stress another proposal which was adopted yesterday in the Parliament of the Republic, in the field of specialty, and which concerns precisely a legislative authorisation which, from now on, the Government will have, in order to create a national regulation of fees and emoluments in higher education. This is because, in fact, not only the tips constitute an obstacle to the frequency in higher education, as there is a vast set of other subjects that constitute excessive burden factors so that students can complete the cycle of studies in higher education, and often the rates and emoluments that institutions practice are a way of hindering the completion of this cycle of studies in higher education. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opening of the Socialist Party to start a discussion on the tips in Portugal is total. We have made a very clear contribution in this regard to the speciality of the State Budget for 2016 and all parliamentary groups must have a role as a rameira here, including those who resigned from presenting proposals in the field of discussion in the specialty of this State Budget for 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u7	For an intervention, Mrs Margarina Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: in today's debate, as in yesterday's debate, we give voice to higher education and higher education institutions. It says the COR (Council of Rectors of the Portuguese Universities) in the document which, on this matter, brought us to the Assembly of the Republic, and I quote: "It is a totally wrong measure". And he says more: « If there is an effective desire to have more students in higher education, particularly groups of people with economic difficulties, there is only one serious way to do this: to strengthen social action funds». in today's debate, as in yesterday's debate, we are in line with the CORP and, moreover, with the Minister when, two weeks ago, he said: 'We cannot look at this in a demagogic way'. in today's debate, as in yesterday's debate, we do not worry about the political victories of some, but the backwardness — from the point of view of reducing university autonomy, of the decision-making capacity of the institutions — of the resulting courts, without ensuring justice for families. Today, as yesterday, we ask: do all families and students need this support? Will it be responsible for withdrawing the power of decision from institutions or reducing the budget of higher education? This does not seem to us to be a truly fair and responsible decision for the future of higher education. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u9	It is the turn of the Green Party to intervene. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens have advocated for this session their proposal on the elimination of Article 92. the proposal for a State Budget Act. As we all remember, the PSD and the CDS eradicated, banned the right to transport to the workers of the transport industry, which was granted to these workers. So they did what? They have reduced their rights and counterparts in relation to the work of workers in this sector, in particular. in their desire to dismantle the sector, to privatize the sector, they removed workers' rights to better appeal to companies, but not only because ideologically, in fact, they are not very friends of the workers. What they have done was therefore to withdraw this prerogative which, as I said, must be understood as a counterpart for the work they have done. It happens that at the beginning of the year, this issue was resolved by the Assembly of the Republic, in order to resume this counterpart and that right. It was the most basic justice! However, what the Greens consider, by reading the proposal for a State Budget law, is that Article 92. it generates some doubts, some absolutely unnecessary uncertainties, because the matter is solved. The great concern of the Greens is that to push for collective bargaining this matter, particularly with regard to railways, has weakened the position of workers and, eventually, to open conflicts which, in our view, are unnecessary. Therefore, in order to grant this net right to workers, without any doubt, without any possibility of opening a conflict in the future, the Greens make a concrete request to the Socialist Party and the Left Block so that in this session we can still reflect in order to eliminate only Article 92. that what was resolved in January this year is settled in this way, without any doubt, without any uncertainty. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that in some of these lawyers we will finally be able to see how misleading the government's advertising has been. Let's see. We started by hearing that this was the government from turning the page. They forgot to say that it was turning the page to return to the beginning of the book!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u14	And yesterday in this same Chamber we voted not one but many — many — tax increases, as I think, unfortunately, we will still vote today. Therefore, thanks to this decree ending austerity but, in reality, the beginning of austerity, many companies will pay more taxes and have more costs, it will become more expensive to transport their goods and it will become more expensive for all Portuguese to buy them in shelves, for example, supermarkets. On the other hand, it will also become more difficult for companies to have the capacity to invest and create jobs. Why? Because this government has decided to stop the IRC reform and the fall in the IRC rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u15	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u16	The Government shall, in its usual glaring statements, say: « But this government is a friend of people, not a friend of companies! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And I ask: aren't companies, too, made of people? Do companies not create jobs, too?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u18	Is it not encouraging the creation of jobs and the creation of healthy enterprises that can contribute to the growth of Portugal's GDP so that we all live better? Isn't that a friend of people? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u19	As far as this government's concern with people is concerned, the mask also falls, because the truth is that, with the lead of the family quotient, you can see clearly what is behind this government's intentions. I was here yesterday, Mr Secretary of State — and I have listened to him carefully — that is a matter of principle. You are, Mr Secretary of State, indeed, a matter of principle. It is that, for us, the protection of families and the protection of birth policies are a priority, while for the government this is a matter that comes at the end of the line. In fact, for the Government, all ideological issues are first of all, even though, in concrete terms, the cost of your ideological prejudices is that families with children are affected by your choices. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u20	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We choose to advocate for discussion in plenary the inclusion of the indispensable medical and veterinary expenses at the IRS in the context of health expenses. About 2 million Portuguese households(54 %) have at least one pet. It is estimated that there are about 7 million of these animals in the country, representing a relevant burden for many Portuguese families. We therefore consider that it would be time to specifically frame medical-veterinary expenses as deductions to IRS collection, within the framework of the health expenses we have. It would not be a question of increasing expenditure here, because this ceiling already exists in health expenditure. We cannot forget that the fact that there are no tax benefits in these services, combined with 23 % VAT, is an incentive for a parallel economy. on the contrary, the existence of tax benefits can lead to a lower abandonment of animals, since it is also in this context to recognize the value of animals for society, accepting and encouraging their health care. This proposal of the NAP has come up with some ideological barriers that are inaccessible to follow the social evolution that naturally integrates our partners into the family structure and that assumes as fundamental a benefit that allows less expensive access to their health care. In keeping with the commitment to participate in the development of positive solutions that may represent gradual changes to the existing paradigm and aware of the low negotiating capacity of the NAP, we continue to work hard to circumvent the constraints that are emerging, so we have changed our proposal, so that the deduction of these expenditure integrated into a category where they will be specifically framed — Deduction by requirement of invoice —, no longer being referred to general expenditure, tax framework so far in force and quite reducing to the needs of so many Portuguese people. It is still very far from what we would like to see reflected in this State budget, but, from the point of view of the causes we stand for, it is already a consistent indicator of the gradual changes we intend to facilitate. For the NAP, the adoption of this measure is still a short step, but it is a first step towards the evolution that society has requested, and it is essential to continue to work to ensure more consistent benefits that allow less expensive access to such treatments.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u22	Just a moment, sir. He asked for some silence, because you can't hear what Mr. PAN is saying. People who are standing by may be able to leave. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Another of the avocados we choose here to bring has to do with the end of the VAT exemption for the professionals of the Tauromakia. The end of the exemption is justified not only because it is a purely commercial activity but, above all, because this practice is based on disrespect for the sensitivity of humans and animals, rewarding the ill-treatment and applauding the display of violence. Equiparing this activity to humanitarian professions, or public utility, is a way of nullifying the meaning of words and nullifying the reason for being exempt. The NAP agrees with most of the exemptions provided for in the law, but this is certainly not one of them. at a time when this activity is going to be justly banned across the globe and in which, in particular, the UN, through UNESCO, stated that, and I quote, « Tauromachy is the terrible and venal art of torture and killing animals in public, according to certain rules. Traumatizes sensitive children and adults. The bully aggravates the state of neurotics attracted by these shows. It denaturalizes the relationship between man and animal, it confronts morals, education, conscience, science and culture». This is the spectacle that this House may or may not equate to other professions of humanitarian charity or public utility. Recently, some autoarchs linked to Tauromachy claimed to have met with Mr. Minister of Culture, Dr. João Soares, and, according to recent news, Mr. Minister had promised these authors to support a future candidacy of Tauromachy to national immaterial heritage. Only the intention already seems shocking to us in black humor, so we hope that the Minister will be able to reject this news as soon as possible. The overwhelming majority of the Portuguese, believe me, Mr. Members, it considers this tax exemption totally inadequate and incomprehensible, requiring political leaders to adapt their decisions to a new ethical conscience, which is becoming more and more widespread. Let us therefore begin by not sending the wrong signals to society, not rewarding these barbaric activities with totally unjustified tax benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u24	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u25	I will now finish, Mr President. To continue to exempt these professionals who live from the suffering of others is a stain on this House, so I appeal here vehemently to all Members to follow the NAP at the end of this tax benefit. [[Congrats from BE, The Greens and PS Rosa Maria Albernaz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u26	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I heard just yesterday that there would have been a vote on a series of tax increases. So I tried a little bit of my memory and went to see what had been voted on yesterday, at that long session in which some of us were here. In the IRS, is there any increase in taxes? Well, not only this year's IRS incorporates the decision on the termination of the overtax, half of which is already reflected this year, as the budget implementation will also have to reflect a tax reduction, even since the previous year. in IRC, is there any increase in taxes? Well, the IRC maintains, as you know, its rates, although also, once again, the budget implementation has to accommodate some EUR 470 million of outstanding revenue, resulting from previous policy decisions that have been launched for this year. In VAT, is there any increase in taxes? Well, VAT rates remain, with the most notable exception of the VAT rate on restoration, which goes down from a set of small changes to the rates which, in fact, are mainly intended to forward some goods to the reduced rate. Is it a IUC? Well, the IUC actually increases. Increases 0, 5 % in line with inflation. Now there's the big increase in taxes! Open... Finally, the vehicle tax was voted on, in which there is a worsening of the environmental component in some vehicles, but there is also, as you know, a deterioration in the most efficient vehicles. So, after this list, I'm totally unaware of where is the such increase in taxes that the CDS insists on talking about. Finally, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, as regards the family quotient, I believe that the issue that separates us is simple, philosophical and easy to say. on this side, we do not understand why the IRS has to understand that some children are worth more than others,... [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] ... we don't understand why IRS has to understand that children in families with more incomes have more needs than children in families with less incomes. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u28	Mr António Costa Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In terms of transport, we are also faced with a case of great activity of « management ». As if a 100 m race were being treated, they are fighting, taco taco, with each other, to see who takes the biggest piece of the flap blanket that is the State Budget for 2016 — in fact, tear, scrap, until nothing remains. Article 92. is precisely a good example of this. It doesn't matter the final result, it just matters who is the protagonist who wins the competition of demagogy and populism. And here are the good graces to contemplate your usual customers. We are in the age of « marriage to the rich», in which we will pay the expenses of the richest. Not only here in transport but also in school textbooks for 1. the year of schooling, in which we will pay the books of the rich children. The left has put the social in the drawer. Moreover, the taxpayer is the one who pays, pays, until he can no longer. These left-wings who live their "blindness test" are only interested in persisting in an unrestricted electoral campaign, which we will all have to pay sooner or later. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u30	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Advocating proposals for amendments to Article 92. it is a good opportunity to strengthen the way in which the article and the proposals for amendment of the Socialist Party strengthen collective bargaining. We must not allow demagogy and populism to contaminate the discussion. This is a hundred-year scheme and is an integral part of the remuneration of workers. We well know that, in this matter, the right parliament is trying to put workers against workers, as we have heard now. The Portuguese line and the Socialist Party cannot be to put Portuguese against Portuguese, this is not the formula of the Socialist Party. This is a fair measure and where the dignity of workers is restored, the dignity of a whole life of work that was withdrawn in the State Budget for 2013. This was just another chapter of the destruction of the public transport sector, advocated by the parliamentary right in the last legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u32	Mr José Soeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the proposed amendments to the Block that we have advocated is to end the hell in which contributions to the social security of workers were transformed from green receipt. Last week, a proposal from the CFP had been adopted setting out a very fair principle. It is now necessary to implement, it is necessary to go further and create a new system of root contributions, which is based on two simple principles: first, discounts should not be made on the basis of a scale calculated according to what people earned in the previous year, but on the basis of what people earn at every moment; second, green receipt workers must have protection in unemployment, must have protection in the disease and not only from 31. the day you are sick, something you don't understand, and you should have protection in your child's follow-up. That is what the Left Block proposes and we hope it will be approved by this Parliament. We will have six months to implement these principles and commitments. Justice is needed for the workers to receive the green. And we're gonna win this fight. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u34	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : Turning to the question of Article 92. that of the proposed State Budget Act for 2016, the CFP wishes to make a warning at this time, a last reference to the need to go in time to ensure a solution in the legislative plan that will ensure security and stability, and to recognise, once and for all, the right already assumed by the Assembly of the Republic in relation to this matter. We do not opt for uncertainty, we do not opt for a regime that comes to raise more questions than those that exist. We must respect what has already been decided. The best is even to delete Article 92. o. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u36	Mr António Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Breaking up what was agreed in 2013 takes investors away and creates distrust in our tax system—and the other countries thank you. But it seems that the government does not like private companies, because it is giving signs that it wants to control everything. And, if there were any doubts, it is enough to check what happens in other places where the PS governs. This is the case with the Azores, where the regional government could have dropped the IRC rate to a maximum of 30 % and only fell to 20 %. This is also why public enterprises in the Azores proliferate. Year after year, we will see the regional government controlling areas such as public transport, tourism, sugar production, and private companies are replaced by temporary employment programmes. This finding implies not only a regional concern, but also a national concern, because whoever did this in the Azores is now here. Now, the President of the PS at national level is the President of the PS Parliamentary Group... [[PSD applause.]] ... and therefore, Mr. Carlos César, do not apply at national level the same income of impoverishment as it applied in the Azores, because in the Azores, 71 % of family aggregates have incomes less than €530 per month. Stop it! Do not apply that same recipe! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u38	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor again for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On proposal 36 - C of the CFP, it is important to tell those who now speak in the autonomy of the institutions that did not remember it when they suffocated them financially and left them without resources, even to make their own decisions and put them into practice. [[PCP applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to say the following: the freezing of the maximum and minimum values of the propines is already approved. What the CFP proposes, which is fundamental and in no way boules with university autonomy and polytechnics, is that it is fixed as the maximum value of each institution the same as that institution set last year. They can fix any other tip, but the maximum value they can reach is the one they set in the previous year. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u40	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I started the previous intervention by speaking in almost a bit misleading publicity from the government. However, now Mr. Secretary of State went further, because he came here saying: "No, we do not approve any increase in taxes. This ISV thing goes up in some cases, decreases in others...". Mr Secretary of State, did you not say here that there would be taxes on vehicles and that this would represent more than 70 million euros? Oh, my God! These 70 million will not « fall from heaven to tramp», they are an increase in tax! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u42	He also said that the tax on petroleum products would represent more than EUR 360 million and that it is not an increase in tax because they would not vote, since it was a proposal from the CDS. Mr Secretary of State, therefore, it was only a proposal from the CDS, because it must be this House to decide this increase in taxes rather than the government's portfolio! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u43	On families, Mr. Secretary of State also said: « We do not accept that some children are worth more than others». Mr. Secretary of State, using exactly the same principle, I will say that children are no longer or less, children are people,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ...and what Mr. Secretary of State does not accept is that children are worth as members of the family! Mr. Secretary of State accepts that children are considered to be discounts, such as a sort of postgraduate or domestic work. We don't accept that! Children are people, they are part of the family and it is such that they should be valued. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u44	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The increase in the ISP summarizes the way this budget debate has been conducted, i.e. in an opaque and intransparent manner. Even the State budget had not been approved and the government had already brutally increased the ISP. And it increased with one argument: that this increase in ISP would compensate for the decrease in the price of oil. This argument, of course, has already fallen to the ground because the increase in ISP was higher than the decrease in oil. on 11 February, the Secretary of State said that it would be possible to relieve the ISP if the price of fuels increased. Mr. Secretary of State, the price has risen. By when would I wear it? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u46	The same question again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u47	For an intervention, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS does not seem to be able to recognize that if children are people, all children are people and not only those you have decided to benefit from the family allowance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, there are so many, but so many, children that the CDS has not only benefited as it has harmed! About 60 000 or 70 000 children lost their social income. And they're people, Mrs. Deputy! The CDS-PP may not understand, but they are. I guarantee you are! [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] The first three steps of the family allowance that the Socialist Party and the left-wing parties that support it will update in this Budget represent 1 million children. And they're people! They are people who the CDS has not only not supported in the previous legislature nor would it support in the next one, since it does not make any proposal to benefit these children! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u49	If they are poor children, despise!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u50	And, Mrs. Member, let's see if we understand ourselves: in the IRS the Socialist Party disagrees with the CDS option for the family quotient. The CDS can defend the family quotient as often as it wants, but there is one thing that cannot say: a tax expense that is exactly the same as that of your proposal for family quotient, when it is replaced by a reinforcement of fixed deductions in which the volume of support is exactly the same but is distributed in an equal way, by mathematical and logical matters, can not harm the overwhelming majority of families or, at least, harm children.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u51	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u52	For a simple reason, Madam Member: if we give exactly the same value, but equally, we have to give more children. That is why, with our proposal, there are 800 000 children who gain only 200 000 in your proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u53	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u54	It is a matter of mathematics, Mrs. Member, and it is good for the CDS to recognize this once and for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u55	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u56	Mrs. Member, I know it's hard to be the left to support children and the family, but it's a fact, and you have to get used to it. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u57	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : In view of the Government's proposal to allocate EUR 10 million of oil products tax to the financing of the national counterpart of the PDR 2020 and MAR 2020 programmes, the CFP Parliamentary Group believes that these EUR 10 million of national counterpart should preferably be targeted at projects aimed at family agriculture and traditional and coastal fisheries. This was the proposal presented by the CFP, which was approved and which we want to value here, not only because these subsectors are the most fragile and the most lacking in support, but also because they traditionally have less access to the values available for investment. For this reason, it does not make sense that the tax which is paid by all farmers, shipowners and fishermen who use colorful diesel is affected by the investment which is mostly made by large farms. The value that is paid by everyone must be affected by those who need it most. Family farming and small-scale coastal fisheries deserve particular attention because of their importance as a source of income for many Portuguese for the production of high-quality products and also because of their contribution to fixing coastal farmers and communities. The former PSD/CDS government only cared about the great, the beautiful, which was good in photography. But agriculture and fisheries are more than that.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u59	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u60	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, the contribution of the CFP is to enhance family farming in traditional and coastal small-scale fisheries. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u61	Mr Matias has the floor again for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Still on Article 92. I must say that there is only one way to avoid misconceptions or to refer the rights of workers to the possible application of recommendations, which is to put them into law. That is what Article 92 does. the now proposed. One imposes the replacement of rights in accordance with the terms in force until 31 December 2012 before they are removed by PSD and CDS. Two, recognize that they will remain until they are included in collective contracts. Here, yes — and not in the void — there is no doubt as to whether the rights of workers are respected. Therefore, the Left Block defends the current formulation of Article 92. o. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u63	Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: May all of us apologize, but the Budget of this government and of this majority is increasingly transformed into a boy-spertism exercise. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u65	For the Government, for the PS and for the radical majority that supports it there is no minimum responsibility for the needs of the country and the Portuguese. With the revocation of the family quotient per child, it is evident that contempt for the demographic and birth problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u66	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u67	Yesterday and today, they were unable to disguise the concern with the children of the rich and the poor. What they want is just to increase IRS revenue. According to your own definitions, the children of the poor will not pay taxes and the children of the rich from 1000 € will pay more. After all, the idea was to pick up more IRS headlong.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u68	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u69	Mr Secretary of State, in fact, progressiveity must be achieved at rates and at different levels. It is not by chance that the first step pays 14, 5 % of the rate and the last step pays 48 % of the rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u70	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u71	After all, what you wanted was just to increase IRS revenue. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u72	The IRS is down, it's not coming up! [[Mr President, Mr Cristóvão Crespo has been far too long.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u73	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, proceed in the same way as three times. As soon as time is exceeded, I notice, then I make another request and then I thank you. Therefore, there was no discriminatory treatment for any Member, as is obvious. For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: "Life for life. Come on, but we don't know if we're coming back. Always for good, without looking at who”. This is the firefighter's motto. « Let's go, but we don't know if we're coming back». Many, unfortunately, do not come back. There are 470 firefighter bodies in Portugal, 435 are volunteer firefighters, people who, after their professional activity, put this motto before everything: family, leisure, friends, their own safety, giving their lives for our protection, for our lives. Ensuring all and the best conditions for firefighter activity is the responsibility of the State. We know it hasn't been like that. We know that for successive governments this has not been a priority. Rooms without any conditions, obsolete or damaged equipment do not guarantee neither the safety of those who carry out firefighting activity nor the safety of those who help. Exempting from vehicle tax the acquisition of all vehicles necessary for all activities, all protection, relief and assistance operations by humanitarian associations of volunteer firefighters and municipal firefighters does not respond to everything, but it is an essential first step to ensure that firefighters' activity is carried out safely and that the relief provided is as good as possible. It seems to me that this is a demand for greater justice and that it can only bring together the consensus of this Parliament, including the support of the PSD bench. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u75	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to clarify Mr. João Galamba, who made an inflamed speech. Mr President, I see you now very concerned about the children, but I do not see it as it was when your party cut the first steps of the family allowance to more than half a million children. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u77	It wasn't the first steps!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u78	I do not think that pre-banking is a good way to build a good future for children.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u80	But I'm glad you're worried. Welcome, because during the more than 10 years that this bench has been concerned about the different tax treatment of families with children, we did not have the opportunity to hear the honourable Member! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u81	Finally, I would like to explain to you the following: Mr President, the state gives. First of all, when it comes to IRS, we are certainly talking about what the state takes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u82	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u83	I will finish, Mr. President. It's just that what families earn is from them, it's not from the state. And so we're talking about what the state takes! And that, in fact, is a difference of principle. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u84	Poor rich! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u85	For the honourable Member, the children are discounted as a post-graduation. in this bench, they tell and what the income of the family is divided by them. This is a difference and, yes, your option harms many families! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u86	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I confess that it causes me some impression—I would not say surprise because there are things that no longer surprise me— that the parliamentary groups, which have passed an entire legislature to cut fiercely into the income of families, thus affecting children immensely and extending the poverty stock, including heavily child poverty, now speak as if children were their first priority. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]] by the way, children become their first priority when you are opposed, but when you are in government, there is no such priority for anyone. Conclusion: you are in fact very good at the opposition! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] Speaking in children, I would like to highlight the effort that this State Budget makes in updating the family allowance, but also in other aspects that greatly benefit children and families, including their successes in learning. It is that we remember many families who did not have the ability, at the beginning of the school year, to give the school textbooks that children needed for their learning. Therefore, I would also like to highlight the proposal made by the CFP regarding the freeness of school textbooks for 1. the cycle. I would like to draw attention to this proposal, because it may be important, and with this I intend to raise the awareness of the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members—who, after the State budget, think about other ways that benefit families and society socially and environmentally. As for school textbooks, it is time to start thinking about their dematerialization. It is a great environmental benefit, a benefit that Greens consider to have a social and economic advantage.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u88	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u89	I will finish, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the dematerialization of school textbooks already exists as a pioneering project in some educational establishments successfully and we should think seriously about its generalization to all Portuguese schools and for the benefit of all Portuguese students. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u90	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Apparently, it has now been established that the criterion "to be a human person" is its qualification as a divider in the IRS. Well, how do you solve your family quotient? The family quotient assigns divider 1 to each passive subject and divider 0, 3 to each dependent. Therefore, by the logic of the CDS, the family quotient really does not treat children as people, treats children as 0, 3 of a person. But we admit that there would be progress, since there would be a divisional growth and so it would already be 0, 4 person! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, of course, it is not by the divisions that happens whether or not they are people. What's the matter? It is simply concerned about the consideration that families with children have, in relation to a family without children or with fewer children and with the same income, a lower contribution capacity. It is the law to recognize this and to find the best technical way of favouring families with children, without, however, favouring families with children who have the most incomes, rather than the others, and it is now the family quotient that does not favour, at all, some families with children. That was always simply what was at stake. As regards the increase in the ISP (charge on petroleum products), I should like to say that I find it very surprising about this increase through portaria, since this system of oil products tax has been increased by portaria for many years in Portugal. What is the logic of this increase per portary in relation to others? It is precisely to enable the Government to adapt the tax to the change in the price of fuels. If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you will find that tax incorporation in petrol and gas is very similar today to last year for the simple reason that, if there is indeed more tax on oil products, there is less VAT, because it depends on the price. And the selling price to the public of gasoline and diesel continues to be significantly the same as that set at the beginning of the year and remains much lower than that set last year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u92	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the second item on the agenda, which is based on the vote on the rules adopted by the plenary. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic picture records 209 presences, to which are added 7 ( of PS Deputies João Paulo Rebelo, Joaquim Barreto, Pedro Delgado Alves and Ricardo Leone and of PSD Deputies Andreia Neto, Antonio Topa and Duarte Filipe Marques ), making 216 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. We begin with Article 92. o — Transport. We shall vote on proposal 159 - C, tabled by The Greens, to eliminate Article 92. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 87 - C, submitted by BE, in the part in which it replaces Article 92 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] [[It is as follows: 1 — The rights to the free use of public transport provided for in a legal and regulatory instrument shall be restored.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u93	The vote on Article 92 ( 1 ) shall then be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We are now voting on proposal 87 - C, submitted by BE, in the part in which it replaces Article 92 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE and the PAN, against the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the PSD.]] [[It is as follows: 2 — In cases where it is not included in a collective instrument of regulation of the work, a collective negotiation process shall be initiated within 90 days with a view to its inclusion in these regulatory instruments, the rights referred to in paragraph 1 shall be maintained under the conditions which existed until 31 December 2012, until they are included in regulatory instruments.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u94	The vote on Article 92 ( 2 ) shall be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We turn to Article 106. o — ISP revenue appropriation. We shall vote on proposal 38 - C tabled by the CFP amending Article 106. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It is as follows: Article 106 ISP revenue appropriation During the year 2016, the revenue from the Oil Products Tax charged on coloured and marked diesel is allocated, up to € 100.000, to the financing of the national counterpart of the PDR 2020 and MAR 2020 programmes, preferably in projects aimed at supporting family and traditional and coastal agriculture, in proportion to the amounts of the Community funds involved, and this money should be transferred from the budget of the State subsector to the budget of the IFAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u95	Mrs. Members, with the approval of this amendment, shall be adversely affected by the vote on Article 106. The proposal of the law. We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 36 - C, tabled by the CFP, on the addition of Article 113. o -A — Suspension of the system of updating the value of propines.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u96	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u97	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u98	Mr President, I request the vote of paragraphs 1 and 3 together and of paragraph 2 separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u99	Therefore, with regard to proposal 36 - C, tabled by the CFP, we shall jointly vote on paragraphs 1 and 3 of Article 113. o -A — Suspension of the system of updating the value of propines. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] These are the following: 1 — The application of the arrangements for updating the tips for public higher education in Article 16 ( 2 ) is suspended. the Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 with the amendments introduced by Laws No 49 / 2005 of 30 August and No 67 / 2007 of 10 September. (...) 3 — The provisions of the previous paragraphs have effect in the 2016 / 2017 school year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u100	We now vote on paragraph 2. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous paragraph, only the institutions of higher education are allowed to set values below those established for the academic year 2015/2016.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u101	We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 89 - C, submitted by BE, on the addition of Article 113. o -A — Contributions of self-employed persons. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It is as follows: Article 113a Contributions from self-employed persons 1 — During 2016, the contribution scheme for self-employed persons, as provided for in the Code of Contributions of the Preventive System of Social Security, is revised. 2 — The amount of contribution of self-employed persons relates to the income actually taken, with the most recent months of remuneration as a reference point. 3 — The review provided for in paragraph 1 shall assess the extension of the social protection of self-employed persons in the areas of unemployment, disease and child care.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u102	We turn to Article 114. o — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons. We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 128 - C submitted by the CDS-PP, in the part in which it replaces Article 68 ( 3 ). the -A of the IRS Code, as set out in Article 114. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] [[(b) in cases where the option referred to in the preceding paragraph is not exercised, those corresponding to the collective income divided by the sum of two by the product of 0,4 by the number of dependents that make up the household and ascending aggregate are not the same as the item referred to above, those corresponding to the collective income divided by the sum of 1 by the product of 0,2 by the number of dependents that integrate the family and ascending aggregate.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u103	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 68 ( 3 ). the -A of the IRS Code, as set out in Article 114. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 128 - C, tabled by the CDS-PP, in the part in which it replaces Article 68 ( 4 ). the -A of the IRS Code, as set out in Article 114. The proposal of the law. Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u104	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u105	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u106	Mr President, I think that, rather than voting point by point, we could vote on the whole proposal 128 - C, tabled by the CDS-PP, and then on the whole articulation of the missing numbers and the body of the article.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u107	Mr President, I believe that the suggestion facilitates the work, so we shall then vote on proposal 128 - C, tabled by the CDS-PP, in the part in which it replaces Article 68 ( 4 ). the -A of the IRS Code, as set out in Article 114. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] It was as follows: 4 — In the case of taxable persons not mentioned in the previous number, the applicable rates are those corresponding to the taxable income divided by the sum of 1 with the product of 0, 4 by the number of dependents that make up the family and ascending aggregate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u108	By suggestion of the CDS-PP, we proceed to the vote on proposal 128 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, in the part in which it replaces Article 69 (1), (2) and (5). the IRS Code, as set out in Article 114. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] [[(b) in cases where the option referred to in the preceding paragraph is not exercised, those corresponding to the collective income divided by the sum of two by the product of 0,4 by the number of dependents that integrate the family and ascending aggregates are not the option divided by the sum of one by the product of 0,2 by the number of dependents that integrate the family and ascending aggregates. 2 — In the case of taxable persons not mentioned in the previous paragraph, the rates set out in Article 68 shall be those corresponding to the taxable income divided by the sum of one with the product of 0.4 by the number of dependents that make up the family and ascending aggregate. 3—................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 4 —...................................................................................................................................................................................... 5—................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (a) When there is separate taxation: (i) €425 in the aggregates with one dependent or ascending; (ii) €750 in the aggregates with two dependent or ascending; and (iii) €1125 in the aggregates with three or more dependent or ascending. (b) In single-parent families: (i) €475 in the aggregates with one dependent or ascending; (ii) €875 in the aggregates with two dependent or ascending; and (iii) €1325 in the aggregates with three or more dependent or ascending. (c) When there is option for joint taxation: (i) € 850 in aggregates with one employee or ascending; (ii) € 1500 in aggregates with two dependents or ascendings; and (iii) € 2250 in aggregates with three or more dependents or ascendings.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u109	Let's now vote for proposal 5 - C...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u110	Mr President, we have to vote on the bill in the numbers in which the CDS-PP proposes amendments.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u111	Mrs. Members, let us then vote on Article 68 ( 4 ) and ( 6 ). Article 69 ( 1 ), ( 2 ) and ( 5 ). the IRS Code, as set out in Article 114. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now proceed to the vote on proposal 5 - C, submitted by the NAP, adding a point (e) to Article 78 ( 1 ). o-F of the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] [[(e) Section M, Class 75000 — Veterinary activities.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u112	We turn to Article 117. o — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons. We shall vote on proposal 131 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, in the part in which Article 87 ( 1 ) is amended. the IRC Code. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — The IRC rate is 20%, except in the cases provided for in the following numbers.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u113	We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 131 - C submitted by the CDS-PP, in the part in which Article 87(5) is amended. the IRC Code, as set out in Article 117. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: 5 — For the overall income of entities with effective headquarters or direction in Portuguese territory which do not primarily carry out commercial, industrial or agricultural activities, the rate is 20%.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u114	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 87 ( 5 ). the IRC Code, as set out in Article 117. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to Article 126. o — Amendment to the Value Added Tax Code. We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 9 - C submitted by the NAP amending Article 9 ( 15 ( b ). the VAT code. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PCP, votes in favour of BE, the NAP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It was as follows: (b) by sportsmen acting individually or integrated in groups, in sports competitions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u115	We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 145 - C, tabled by the CDS-PP, for the addition of Article 140. o -A — Elimination of the increase in the tax on petroleum products. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] [[It was as follows: Article 140A Elimination of the increase in the tax on petroleum products This Act eliminates Portaria No 24-A/2016 of 11 February, re-resisting paragraphs 1 and 2 of Portaria No 16-C/2008 of 9 January, as well as paragraph 7 of Portaria No 5010/2005 of 9 June.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u116	We turn to Article 141. o — Amendment to the Code of Vehicle Tax. We shall vote on proposal 54 - C, submitted by BE, amending Article 51 ( 1 ( a ). the ISV Code. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] [[(a) vehicles purchased for operational functions by the National Civil Protection Authority, as well as vehicles for fire, protection and relief services acquired by fire associations, including municipal authorities;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u117	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of item 2 of the agenda, which consisted of the vote on the rules adopted. We move on to point 3, which consists of the continuation of the debate, in the specialty, of Bill No 12 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2016. Today, we will appreciate articles 143. a 188. Article 1 and Article 1. , which is the last to be voted on, as you know. Article 143 is under discussion. o — Amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax. For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The update of the heritage value of the buildings led to a brutal increase of the IMI, which has affected, in a deeply negative way, thousands and thousands of families in our country. This was one of the measures imposed by the PSD and the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u119	Madam Member, I apologize for interrupting, but I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing by to get out of the Chamber, even for a matter of respect to whom you are speaking. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u120	As I said, this was one of the measures imposed by the PSD and the CDS, which has cost families a great deal, especially in the context of worsening economic and social conditions, resulting from the policy of exploitation and impoverishment that has continued over the past four years, also the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS. The worsening of the IMI was, in many cases, the cause of growing difficulties in maintaining housing for many families. In view of this reality, the CFP presents a proposal to reduce the IMI rate of urban buildings from 0, 5 % to 0, 45 %. This proposal has a huge scope, because thousands of families will see to reduce taxes, in this case the IMI, and this is the difference that marked the PCP proposals from what was practised by the PSD and CDS, which imposed a brutal increase in taxes on the Portuguese. What the CFP is proposing is the dishonoring of these same taxes — in this particular case, of the IMI — for families. And the decisions that will be taken today, or the decisions that will be taken in 2016, will already take into account the reduction of the rate that the CFP is proposing today, which, once again, is, in fact, of great scope because it allows to further disburse this tax burden on Portuguese families. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u121	For an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: in the proposed State budget law, the PS, within IMI, proposes two innovations with regard to what it was in force. First of all, it proposes reintroducing the safeguard clause of the IMI, which is, as the expression itself indicates, a safeguard for families in relation to any significant tax increases, and also proposes the abolition of the tax benefit for real estate investment funds, which, as you know, were partially exempt, 50 % within IMI and IMT. In addition to these proposals that we put forward in the State budget, we thank, we welcome and we will vote in favour of three proposals from the parties to our left. It has already been said before me, but now I'm going to need numbers, that the revaluation of heritage has led to a brutal increase in family taxes. In 2010 the IMI revenue was EUR 1088 million and in 2015 it was EUR 1525 million. In other words, IMI's revenue increased by about 50 % over five years, and the most oscillative IMT is in 2015 almost at the 2010 revenue level. Therefore, Portuguese families were paid at IMI and IMT headquarters, no longer to speak in the rates of water, sanitation and waste. As such, we welcome the proposal from the CFP, which has now been presented, from the reduction of the maximum rate of IMI, which will benefit in particular the municipalities which are in a state of financial imbalance—which under the Law on Local Finance are obliged to practice the maximum rates—and their municipalities. We also welcome the proposal from the Left Block for a reduction, which is a percentage, so let us say 10 %, 15 % and 20 % for one, two, three or more children, for a fixed amount. Let me clarify, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, that this is indeed equal treatment for children.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u123	Equality? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u124	Very quickly, I'm going to give a numerical example: when we have two families, in which one paying 100 € of IMI and the other paying 1000 € of IMI, the family who pays 100 € of IMI and now has three children has a benefit of 20 € in the collection, while the family who pays 1000 € of IMI has a benefit of 200 € in relation to the same number of children. With the proposal, which we accept, from the Left Block, which is a fixed deduction per child, these two families will have the same deduction to the collection, which will be 70 €. Therefore, it is fair for us, because we consider each child in the same way, whether they are one, two or three, regardless of the heritage value of the family. That's what we want! They haven't understood this yet, but that's what we want. One thing is to say: "Well, if I have a very large heritage, then I will deduct immensely, because I have three children", and poorer from the smaller family, which, having a lower heritage value, has a much smaller deduction. We don't think that's fair. Finally, we will also accept the proposal submitted by the Greens Ecological Party amending the IMI Code in order to consider that families with low income and low wealth must be exempt from IMI. So, basically, the idea is: there is indeed a tax drop, with the exception of real estate investment funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u125	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As for the IMI, I wanted to talk about three achievements that are introduced here, two by the Socialist Party and one by the CFP. The CFP makes an extraordinary speech here on what was the previous government's IMI policy. The IMI, as it is known, is a municipal tax, the government sets a minimum value and a maximum value for that which may be the rate of IMI in each municipality and the municipalities are free from, within that interval, to establish the rate of IMI. Now, let's take an example, to a practical case, doing justice to the PCP and picking up one of the districts where the PCP has more authorities. in 2015, the IMI that the Portuguese pay this year was possible to establish the IMI between 0, 3 % and 0, 5 %. Let us then go to the PCP authorities in Setúbal district : Alcochete, 0, 45 %; Montijo, 0, 45 %;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u127	Montijo? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u128	...setubal, 0, 5 %. In fact, the case of Setúbal is the most paradigmatic case because the PCP in Setúbal applies a higher IMI rate than it now defends in the State Budget as a maximum limit. I mean, look at what I say in Parliament, don't look at what I do in the cute cameras! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u129	You may say: « That is why we are obliged to the level of PAEL ( Local Economy Support Programme) ». Yes, but in the years that you rule these authorities are also not in PAEL by chance, they are in PAEL because of the choices they have taken and how they managed these authorities. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But we can continue with the examples: Almada, 0, 37 %; Palmela, 0, 4 %; Much, 0, 39 %; Grândola, 0, 38 %; Santiago do Cacém, 0, 4 %; Seixal, 0, 41 %; Sesimbra, 0, 4 %... That is, you, in all the municipalities that manage, do exactly the opposite of what they say should be done here. Therefore, this achievement and this hypocrisy of the PCP are intolerable. As for PS, I want to focus on two fundamental issues. When the PS signed the Memorandum of Understanding, because the country was in the situation in which it was, it did not think it was a priority to reduce the exemption from real estate funds, and at that time it could have introduced a measure to reduce the exemption of real estate funds as a way to raise higher tax revenue. at that time, when the PS was government, the real estate funds were free of 100 %! Who started a way for real estate funds to stop being free was the previous government, and did so against the opinion of the Socialist Party. In other words, it was the previous government that began taxing real estate funds, unlike the tradition of the governments of the Socialist Party. Then we have the hypocrisy of the IMI safeguard clause, which is as follows: you say you will put the clause back after everything has been evaluated. I mean, you're fooling the Portuguese, and that needs to be said. There is no Portuguese, whose property has already been evaluated, which can benefit from what you call a safeguard clause. That is to say, more than 90 % of Portuguese are not safeguarded by anything, because the evaluation has already been made. So it was good to have the transparency to say that what you are presenting here is mere political propaganda and has no benefit to people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u130	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is true, Mr. João Almeida, is that you could have lowered the maximum limit of the IMI and did not. Therefore, you are also responsible for increasing the burden on heritage. This is the reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u132	Don't! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u133	But increases in IMI, sometimes gross, have decreased the available income of families,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u134	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u135	...have led many to lose their homes, clumsy, clear. Many elderly were affected. Adding to the replacement of safeguard clauses the impossibility of increasing collection for people over 65 years of age, who meet the conditions for the exemption from IMI, is a socially just measure and protects the right to housing of the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u136	He's late!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u137	It is also a priority to hold those who do not ensure any social function to their heritage, often speculative funds. And in these cases there must be penalty within IMI, it is the minimum that can be required. And the previous majority did nothing like that.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u138	Fez, he did!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u139	For 10 years there have been legislation for the definition of return fires, but it has never been applied in practice. And for this, it would be enough for telecommunications, water, gas and electricity companies to cooperate with the municipalities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u140	How can they?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u141	...identify fires without contracts and they never did! What is now proposed is that this cooperation become effective, making the crossing of information mandatory, so that municipalities identify the fires returned for the purposes of penalization within IMI. It's a fair measure, because there are so many people without home and so many homes without people. These measures help to prevent the degradation of the housing park, increase the offer of rent and tend to lower the price of income. It is good for families, it is good for cities and it is good for the realization of the right to housing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u142	Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has tabled a proposal for a change to municipal property tax in the rustic part to consider a question that is not only fair as to solve issues we thought had already been resolved, but, on purely technical matters, it was not. The proposal we have tabled is to tax, in terms of IMI, as rustic installations, in addition to agricultural and forestry, livestock and aquaculture. It is a measure which has already been defended and which has been the subject of a decision in the Budget of last year, but, for purely technical matters, has not been envisaged. We have thus clarified this matter in the sense that this is already happening in this State budget, benefiting not only the livestock facilities, such as cows, pocilgas and avians, but also other types of installations, particularly those of aquaculture that are currently being prepared. The certainty that this proposal of the CDS will be approved is given by it to go in the same direction of proposal 433 - C, submitted by the Socialist Party last year to the State Budget for 2015. So I hope and am sure that this time these primary sector professionals will have this benefit, which is well deserved, fair and timely. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u144	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u145	Mr President, Mr. João Almeida, unlike the practice of the PSD Government and the CDS, which brutally increased the IMI by updating and assessing the capital value of buildings, and could also have reduced the maximum rate, but did not do so, the CDU authorities that have the maximum IMI is by imposing financial rebalancing plans... [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u146	...and of situations that have been inherited from other parties, and you know very well that. Furthermore, Mr Deputy, your party asked the previous PSD / CDS Government, which replied that in Setúbal, the maximum rate of the IMI was due to a legislative obligation. Your party and the honourable Member know very well about this. And Mr Deputy in Setúbal is now trying to reduce the maximum IMI rate at the initiative of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u147	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u148	It wasn't on your own initiative. [[PCP applause.]] The big difference, Mr President, is that, once again, there is clear evidence here of the falsities that this party is using to seek to unfeasibility a proposal from the CFP that meets the needs of families and reduces the burden of the IMI on families, which your party has not done. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u149	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for the replacement of the IMI safeguard clause does not go beyond a monumental stage. The safeguard clause, as all recall, was inserted in the State Budget for 2012 in order to prevent sudden rise of the IMI, due to the general reassessment of the buildings, which the Government of the Socialist Party, Mrs Paula Santos, undertook to take forward before the troika. When it was absolutely necessary, absolutely necessary, Mrs Paula Santos, neither the PS, nor the Communist Party, nor the Greens Ecological Party, nor the Left Block voted in favour. Look at that! Now that it is not necessary, it is now that you propose it. They propose it when all the buildings, as mentioned here, have already been mentioned, and have been over 5 million, have already been reassessed, when the transitional period, which ended in 2015, has already been fulfilled, when, as we all know, it cannot have retroactive effects and when it cannot be applied as a result of a change of the taxable subject of the IMI in the year to which the tax is concerned, except for a few exceptions. So it is appropriate to say, Mr. President and Mrs. President and Mrs. Members, who will certainly be very much, but even very few of the Portuguese who will benefit from it. Therefore, in the face of propaganda, which we all have witnessed, around the announcement of this measure and which has misled very good people, it is appropriate to say, Mr President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, that "the mountain has bet a mouse! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u151	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to IMI, The Greens submit two proposals which, we believe, are of the most fundamental justice. One of the proposals has to do with the fact that there are people with economic needs and that, because they have low-value buildings, they have the right to exempt IMI, but when, from a certain age, they go to a home of elderly people, because they have to change their home necessarily, they have just lost the exemption of IMI from their property. This doesn't seem fair to us, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to us that the most basic justice that does not lose this exemption. On the other hand, there are also people with very low incomes and low heritage buildings. It also seems fair to us that these people do not lose the exemption of the IMI, whether or not they have debts to the State, to the tax or to social security. They are people who, because of a certain circumstance of life, have contracted these debts and can be stimulated to pay them, but they can no longer be stimulated to pay them if everything falls on them and if they are not created payment conditions. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we propose that there be this distinction between the exemption from IMI, regardless of the debts these very low-income people have to the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u153	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, let us then compare what is comparable. First of all, I would like to say to you, with all the border, that we are not going to block the PCP proposal in any way. It is a proposal to lower taxes and we are consistent, we will make it possible. So that doesn't have a problem. Now, let's compare what is comparable, for example, management of authorities. So I'll tell you: Montijo, 0, 45 %;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u155	Montijo? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u156	... Hotels, 0, 3 %; Alcochete, 0, 45 %; Lima bridge, 0, 32 %; Setubal, 0, 5 %; Santana, 0, 3 %; Almada, 0, 37 %; Velas, 0, 3 %; Santiago do Cacem, 0, 4 %; Santana, 0, 3 %. In other words, it can well compare the management of the CDS authorities with the management of the PCP authorities and how each one treats the taxpayers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u157	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u158	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u159	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u160	If it's about the conduct of the work, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u161	Mr President, in order to correct the ignorance of the previous intervention in relation to the authorities of the CDU, I must say that the management of the Montijo is the PS, but this is just...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u162	Mr President, this is an intervention, it is not an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u163	Mr President, the question has to do with this. Mr President, I would like to request the distribution of a document which is a response from the former Government to a question from the CDS, concerning the IMI applied in Setúbal, which proves that the IMI rate in Setúbal is imposed by law and government rather than by a decision from the Authority.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u164	Mr President, please hand it over to the Bureau so that it can be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u165	It's a response to the CDS, but the CDS has already forgotten,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u166	Mr President, do not do any intervention now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u167	...but we can't accept the falsifications that the CDS will subsequently do. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u168	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to play, saying that the CDS has just proposed an increase in taxes, although it has done so, I believe, inadvertently. This is because here, in my view, there is a technical issue which is not properly clarified and which leads to the transition from urban buildings to rustic buildings as low taxes. This is not what happens, because the rate of rustic buildings is a higher rate than the rate of urban buildings. Therefore, when a building with the same value is passed from urban to rustic, its taxation increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u170	But do you know how the same value is given?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u171	I have already made it clear, Mr. Deputies. It was also what happened to buildings affected by farming. In other words, it was intended to lower the tax, but when these buildings were moved from urban to rustics, their heritage value remained and therefore the tax rose. I am convinced that the House, when it voted on this legislative amendment, did not intend at all to increase the IMI to these agricultural holdings. It is in this sense that the Government's proposal aims to correct the present situation, and I believe that we should avoid repeating the legislator's error in the past in relation to agricultural holdings. What is the solution? It is very simple, it is to reconsider agricultural holdings and maintain aquaculture farms as urban buildings, thus benefiting from the lowest rate, but to change the method as are considered the value of buildings built in buildings affecting both agricultural and aquaculture buildings, in order to prevent the criteria of the law, intended to assess buildings of offices or houses, from overvaluing the value of such buildings. Our proposal, I believe, corrects the situation which was inadvertently created by the legislator and which led to a taxation at this moment clearly excessive of the buildings affected by agricultural activity that would be the consequence, and I am sure not intended, of the approval of the CDS proposal for buildings affected by aquaculture. Turning to the issue of the safeguard clause. It is clear that the issue of the safeguard clause now introduced as a permanent provision of the IMI Code will not have the widespread application it has had for three years. [[All right!]] [[Ah...!]] [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u172	In fact, I had the opportunity to say during the debate in general. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the possibility of assessing housing buildings remains present in the IMI Code. from the point of view of a family, which has its IMI increased due to a reassessment, whether it is little or not hundreds of miles at the same time people in this situation do not serve as a great comfort, if the IMI increases significantly. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u173	from that we have always said that the safeguard clause, in so far as it protects taxpayers against a mechanism that remains in the IMI Code, which is the assessment of housing, must also be a permanent mechanism of the IMI Code. It's so simply what's at stake. [[P.S., BE, and P.P.P.P. Members' applause.]] Finally, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like here to point out the proposal just described by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens Ecological Party, because, in my view, it reflects the most correct treatment of certain situations, which today are considered tax benefits—and this is one of them, but there will be more in the law—and which would probably deserve this intervention. What's going on? As you know, anyone who has debts to tax or social security cannot enjoy tax benefits. It happens that they are integrated into the concept of tax benefits cases that are not truly tax benefits, they are cases of reduced taxation due to economic deficiency, as is the case with this exemption from IMI for low-value buildings and incomes. It does not make sense to me that a tax breakdown which is granted not for an extra tax purpose, as is the case with other tax benefits, but by people in a situation of economic shortage, is prevented by the existence of debts. It is the same thing as preventing the application of 1. the step of the IRS rate to persons who have tax or social security debts. in this measure, it seems to me very positive, and in the proper sense, this proposal by the Greens Ecological Party and it seems to me that there is a legislative work to be done, probably in the next State budget, to identify other situations which are, in essence, incorrectly identified by law as tax benefits and therefore have their effectiveness paralyzed by the existence of fiscal debts or social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u174	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 145. o — Interpreting provision under the Code of Municipal Property Tax. Mr. Carlos Santos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u175	Mr President, this is exactly a budget rule that represents what this State budget is in its entirety: a brutal enemy of companies. contrary to what the Socialist Party announces, in this Budget, companies are left behind, and how, and I give you the concrete example of the attack on investment funds. The investment funds have for many years been financial instruments which have enabled savings, which is an important measure for the economy, and on the other, investment, since the funds that are open, not talking about the closed ones, are funds that are at the disposal of the citizens, the Portuguese, to be able to save. With this measure, it is undoubtedly intended to attack anything like 300 000 Portuguese who have been saving these instruments over the past few years. contrary to what Mr. Secretary of State said, that he is diabolizing, in a certain way, the investment funds, saying that they are instruments where strange real estate is hidden, which is not true, these funds, the closed funds, are perfectly typified and for a long time the previous government has applied to him all the fees due in terms of IMT and IMI. With regard to open funds, this does not happen. I am also reminding myself of another class of Portuguese who, in the voice of the left benches, should not stay behind, and on our part also did not stay behind, which are exactly the pensioners. And there is something like 100 000 pensioners who earn income that derives exactly from these investment funds. After all, there were Portuguese who stayed behind; about 400 000 Portuguese, as a result of this increase in taxes, will see their income reduced. But we have more examples, we have an increase in IMT. This is the clear example of a government that takes one hand and takes both. That is to say, if we think of a commercial activity, such as a small restaurant, which benefits from the reduction in the VAT of restoration — your flag — the government is now hitting you with a hammer, telling you that you have to pay IMI, which is no longer free from your property. Therefore, this is the clear example of a government that is an enemy of investment, an enemy of saving, and, in this circumstances, we are here alerting us to this class of Portuguese, which are currently damaged. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u176	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify here the question raised about the demon, whether or not I am diabolicizing investment funds. Mr. Carlos Silva, I think not only the devil should pay taxes,... [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ... the generality of taxpayers must pay taxes. Therefore, it is not a question of diabolising investment funds, it is simply to understand that investment funds are like other collectives. If the other collectives pay taxes, these too. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u178	Mrs. Members, let us now turn to Article 149. o — Amendment to the Single Circulation Tax Code. Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the amendments to the single circulation tax ( IUC ), there are in fact two major developments, the first of them, the increase in taxation, will certainly be a consequence of the end of austerity. The second big news is that now anyone who pays the tax becomes the one who is registered in the car register. Let's imagine any Portuguese who has a car, sells the car, and for whatever reason you forget to change the record. With the previous government, since 2014, it could change the car registration informally ; with this government it has only one option: paying the tax, paying and not claiming. But the greater seriousness, with regard to the single circulation tax, is undoubtedly a practice that already comes from the other rules of the Budget, which is a certain fixation with interpretative standards, because they are interpretative standards that are retroactive standards. There are numerous cases pending in court on this issue. Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, with a retroactive tax standard that harms taxpayers, imagine there what will happen in the Portuguese courts. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u180	Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u181	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I have heard that this norm will cause IUC liquidations back 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012, but it will not and for one reason: they are all made. They are all done on the basis of this interpretation of this standard. I mean, the tax administration... [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there is what I say, which is: the tax administration will not change its interpretation of the law, the tax administration will continue to interpret the law in the same way, and, therefore, there will be no new liquidations, because the liquidations are already made, and again, with a great will, it was not me who kept the tax administration when these liquidations were made. The honourable Member will agree, therefore, that it will be difficult to resolve the existence of any retroactivity here. As it is difficult to call higher taxes to update, equal to the recorded inflation of the IUC. I believe that there is a certain obsession with the expression « tax increase », when the rates of the IUC are increased exactly according to the inflation recorded in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u182	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr. Secretary of State, this form of legislation that brings us here raises the greatest concern because it is Mr. Secretary of State that protects AT ( Tax and Customs Authority ). The AT may have the influence you want on Mr. Secretary of State, but does not protect Parliament. So here, the law is made and the law is interpreted, in dispute, to the court. Thus, we cannot be in a State budget providing coverage for an AT interpretation, which is at present divergent with many Portuguese taxpayers in the courts, under the separation of powers, which is a guarantee of freedom in a rule of law. We cannot, in any way, compromise the freedom of citizens,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u184	They compromised when they made the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u185	...in a rule of law, appeal to the court to enforce that which is your interpretation...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u186	Mr President, it was you who made the law that created the doubts!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u187	... and we are running to make a law so that this freedom will end, only and exclusively, because a service, which is administrative, has managed that the government, which should protect it, if it feels protected by it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u188	Still within the framework of Article 149. Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Secretary of State, I do not know whether tax matters or tax uncertainty have just said or left implicit something very dangerous in a rule of law, which is basically the following:...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u190	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u191	... the Tax Authority decides, on the basis of a certain interpretation, that a certain tax is due and then the Socialist Government comes to Parliament, with the left majority, to say « that tax is due ». Thus, it is retroactively taxing, but worse than that, it is putting Parliament to create taxes which, before, outside the law, the Tributary Authority has decided. This is dangerous! This is a frontal violation of the principle of legality and legal certainty, i.e. the principles of the rule of law. And you want to bring this confusion, this uncertainty and this violation of taxpayers' rights to the Portuguese legal system. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u192	Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u193	Mr. President, Mr. Deputies Antonio Leitão Amaro and João Almeida are, of course, intelligent enough not to take seriously the statements they have just made. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u194	No, no! We take it very seriously because we know AT very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u195	Let's go somewhere. First of all, I think you are. Members understand the principle of the separation of powers, which means, in particular, that the Commissioners. Members who are here, when they are legislating, cannot determine the interpretation of the courts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u196	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u197	Therefore, whatever the meaning of this House, the courts will interpret the rule which is applicable at a given time with full independence from what the Government says, what it says to AT and what Parliament says. This stems crystallly from the Constitution and it is so absurd to think that I could or would like to question it as to think that Mr. Members, even if they wanted to, could question that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u198	Don't! We don't want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u199	... whatever the meaning of the interpretation was made. We have two different questions here, one of which is this: must or should not be taxed who is registered? It is therefore necessary to avoid, in particular, the usual practice of large customers of this tax, which are the financial rental agencies, which are not to register and then to dispute who owes the single car tax. This is a first issue, which is the substantial issue of the legislative amendment proposed here and which now rests on a measure of the initiative of the previous and notified government, which was to make it easier for those selling a vehicle to register on behalf of the person to whom it has sold it. I have no problem recognising that it was a notified measure of the previous government. The second question here, on which I was replying, is that of the supposed retroactive effect. There is, as has already been shown, no retroactive effect and much less there would be any possibility of, whatever was written in this law in this regard, whether it would affect citizens' access to the courts or the decisions of the courts. As it is obvious, neither one nor the other can happily be concerned, because, fortunately, as in the past four years, the judicial system has strong resilience to the various attacks on the Constitution, which sometimes have been tempted to commit in previous budgets. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u200	For a second speech, Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, I think that, from very dangerous to almost absurd, it has passed a little bit. He just said to us: "Maybe what we're doing is unconstitutional, because it's retroactive, but don't worry, because the courts then solve and disregard this interpretation! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u202	That's interpretative!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u203	It's getting worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u204	Mr Secretary of State, make this Parliament an absurd machine, no thank you! I would like to repeat to you, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs: firstly, there are no pending disputes with the issue of subsequent laws; secondly, there are no retroactive tax rules, called 'interpretative', to protect or create a legal layer for interpretations of the Public Administration which are not based on legality, because this violates the rule of law, is completely contrary to taxpayers' guarantees and can only be rejected. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u205	Mrs. Members, we turn to Chapter XIV — Tax Benefits, with the appreciation of Article 151. the ( Amendment to the Statute for Tax Benefits ), for which amendments were submitted respectively by the NAP, BE and PS. For an intervention, Mrs Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, in its Article 65. the, in the context of the right to housing, establishes that the State must promote the creation of housing cooperatives. Of course, this was written 40 years ago and today the problem is not only to encourage the creation of cooperatives but also to support their action and work. It follows that the Seal Tax Code determines that they are subject to seal tax by aggravating the tax burden, owners or holders of surface rights of buildings or land intended for housing, when the capital value is more than 1 million. As you know, housing cooperatives often hold their heritage on collective property, particularly land, of course, before they can be registered on behalf of cooperatives, and buildings and which easily reach values greater than 1 million, seeing cooperatives overburdened with a aggravated tax. The aim of the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party is, in essence, to exempt the housing cooperatives from this aggravated tax, within the framework of, of course, a tax benefit, which we believe is not only fair as necessary. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u207	We turn to Article 152. the ( Legislative authorization under the Tax Benefit Statute ) for which there is a proposal for an amendment submitted by the PS. Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament : With regard to the rule of Article 152. the proposal for an amendment tabled by the Socialist Party, which is in fact aimed at — and this is indeed an issue which has already been discussed here today in this House — is to ensure that companies, particularly companies in the public transport sector of passengers, goods and taxis, have no impact on their accounts. Moreover, this measure shall be subject to the guarantee of intervention which shall be subject to the amendment of its scope in Article 94. that of the IRC Code, also allows to safeguard that the increase is raised in payments on account. Therefore, we have here in particular a measure which aims to ensure that the increases in costs resulting from the increase in the ISP will not cost carriers, ensuring a benefit for all companies in this sector, both in determining their taxable profit and in the special payments on account. This objective is combined with another, general, which has to do with the guarantee we give to all Portuguese that, through the adjustment mechanism, the reduction of the ISP rate in 2016 will not pay a real price of fuel tax above what they paid with the Government of the previous majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u209	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 155. the ( Amendment to the General Tax Law ), which is the subject of two proposed amendments, submitted respectively by the NAP and the PS. Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for an amendment presented by the PS, as a matter of specialty, is a proposal for fiscal justice. And, whenever we talk about fiscal justice, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are obviously talking about an incursion to the very concepts of citizenship, equality and social justice. In short, as the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs mentioned in the hearing we had with the Minister of Finance, it is even the old question of the tax burden on taxpayers. Now, when, in 2013, and well! Article 68 was added to the General Tax Law. o-B, which provided for the monitoring of taxpayers of high tax and economic relevance, has undoubtedly taken a positive step. However, strangely, the wording of this article restricted its application only to the public. This means, quite simply, that the tax, the Tax Authority, remains so far without any credentials in order to be able to follow up with the natural and aggregate people whose wealth or income well justify this follow-up. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when a former Director-General of Tax Administration comes to Parliament even to reveal that in Portugal there will be about 1000 aggregates with incomes above EUR 5 million or over 25 million, adding that these aggregates support about 0, 25 % of the IRS load, when, in terms of counterparts, they should be supporting about 25 %, it is obvious that something had and will have to be changed. [[Congrats from PS MP João Galamba.]] And when this former Director-General expressly points out, and I quote, that, if there is no legislative amendment allowing the follow-up of large-scale single taxpayers, it will still be very easy to identify small and medium-sized taxpayers, but very difficult to identify the large ones who can afford planning services and, to the limit, take risks, including non-declaration of income, I believe that the purpose of the change of the PS will be clearly imposed with meridian clarity. What the PS now proposes is that the fiscal administration's effort to monitor and identify taxpayers with high income or heritage becomes done not only with regard to legal persons, as has already been the case since 2013, but also with respect to natural persons. With the legal tax credential we propose, we will ensure that the fiscal progressiveity that we all pursue is not distorted by the tax evasion of those who can, by complying with a basic principle of fiscal justice. We will be like this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, building a more cohesive society and, because we are building a more cohesive society, a more just society. In fact, this is the purpose of this proposal for a State Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u211	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 165. o ( Legislative authorisation for the creation of a tax incentive for film production), subject to two proposed amendments, submitted respectively by the NAP and the PS. For an intervention, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Act of Cinema and Audiovisual, which was approved in 2012 and elaborated from a project presented by PS and piped to the right, has left out much of what our project had most innovative and bold, for example, the creation, for the first time in Portugal, of tax incentives to international co-productions, as there are, in almost all Europe. In fact, at the moment, it is said to be passing, only there are not in Portugal and Cyprus. in fact, after two years of its regulation, it is necessary to recognize that the results of the new Film Law are only medium and that today the revenue for investment in cinema and audiovisual are significantly the same as they obtained with the old Film Law of 2004 before it breaks television advertising. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, poor strategic ambition could only result in mediation. It was a pity, because if there is a sector where we must feel boldness and innovation is precisely in the cultural sector. The consensus on the need for policies for cinema is today reinforced by the finding enshrined in international law that cultural goods and services, including cinema and audiovisual, have a dual cultural and economic nature. We are therefore not talking about any commodity subject solely to market logic, as it has defended on the right. They are cultural expressions indispensable to the cohesion of our societies, to the collective consciousness, to the sharing of memory, in short, to the enrichment of our civilization. But they also have an undeniable weight and economic potential, as creative industries. They are a source of employment, a source of tax revenue and a source of commercial balance balance. Since 2001, by means of a Council resolution on national aid to the film and audiovisual sectors, it has been recognised that the audiovisual industry is a cultural industry, par excellence, and the importance of national aid to the film sector is one of the main means to ensure cultural diversity. It is therefore established in this Council resolution that the Member States have reason to carry out national support policies that favour these policies, and it is in this framework that the PS has struggled to establish a system of tax incentives for foreign cinema productions that are to be carried out in Portuguese territory, thus placing Portugal on the path to major international productions. He tried to do so in 2011 and was plunged on the right; now he is defending the tax incentive as an indispensable means of competitiveness of the international film industry, because of the legislative authorization he grants in this discussion. The attraction of large international productions to Portugal has enormous value added, economic and tourist value. Unfortunately, PSD and CDS never realized it! For the film industry, then, they are precious, because they mobilize a wide range of professionals, technicians and artists, and they are direct and indirect benefits. All, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you will benefit from this measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u213	We turn to Article 167. o — Amendment to the scheme of the contribution on the banking sector. For an intervention, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this state budget proposal for 2016, the government proposed that we change the contribution to the banking sector. And let me say, from a political point of view, this amendment has an important significance. There is, of course, no kind of ideological prejudice from our point of view, particularly with any sector of economic activity. We have no prejudice, as far as banking is concerned, but there is a central aspect of the political choice that, for our bench, is very important: there is no social cohesion, there is no community cohesion, there is no political cohesion in the community, if, in the face of the efforts that many Portuguese are going to suffer, we are not able to use tax instruments that show this equality, in the face of the circumstances and situations so difficult that so many Portuguese are suffering. More: I remember that, despite all the efforts that this bank and this government have made to return income, by restoring public service salaries, reducing the burden, restoring social minimums with the social income of insertion and complementing solidarity for the elderly, the truth is that during 2016, public servants—not all public employees—will receive 100 % of their salary, that overtax, despite all efforts, will still remain and that we are far from reaching the parameters that we would like to achieve both the solidarity complement for the elderly and the social income of inclusion. It is important to give a clear signal that the effort we are making to consolidate the budget is shared by a sector that taxpayers have come to see demanding the archives of the State, the Treasury, that is to say to taxpayers at the end of the day, so many sacrifices to redeem. It is this change with a change in the perimeter and with the additional effort of this sector in the process of budgetary consolidation, that amendment with this strengthening which we seek and which we support in this bench so that the Portuguese look at tax policy not only as a revenue-collection policy but also as a policy of sharing the sacrifices we have had, and that we have come to suffer, to consolidate public accounts. That is why this bench supports this amendment; therefore, this bench proposes that this House approve this amendment, not only because of a question of revenue, not only because we address ourselves to a specific sector, but because we think that it is politically relevant that this House gives a signal to Portuguese society when so many Portuguese people suffer from enormous sacrileges that result, to a large extent, not only in suffering but also from an idea that they themselves are contributing to making their country a better country. We bet on a different policy, and this different policy does not simply translate into measures of greater efficiency and better distribution of sacrifices. Our policy is a policy of fiscal and social justice and there is no social justice without fiscal justice. That is why this bench proposes that this House approve this amendment to the contribution of the banking sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u215	We turn to Article 171. o — Legislative authorization under the Statute for Tax Benefits. Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u216	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: Legislative authorisations of Articles 152. o is 171. it is well the mark of the government, the mark of the wrong, of the error, of the deception. Two legislative amendments to the same Article, Article 70. that of the Statute of Tax Benefits, of non-concordant charis, before entering into conflict. The meaning and extent of the changes are not compatible, they cover the same article and are different, nor do you realize why there are the two articles. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u217	Mr Fernando Anastácio has tried here an explanation for what would be in Article 152. the ( Legislative Authorisation under the Statute for Tax Benefits ), but what is read in the text of the two legislative authorisations, does not withdraw what the honourable Member says is in the legislative authorization proposed in Article 152. o. And this is serious, and there are already several examples that we have had during the discussion. It is also serious here that the Government, on the basis of the legislative authorization, is not clear and transparent. In the end, these legislative authorizations are precisely the result of the government's action already, therefore, of the tax increase initiative, and they aim, in a far-reaching way, to solve a problem that arises from your governance. The strategy for the country, the goal, is to escape the scrutiny of Parliament. This is case-by-case and non-coherent measures. The reality is, in fact, that companies are already supplying new prices with fuel every day, since January, and the provision of accounts will only happen next year. In short, these two legislative commitments are inconsistencies, they do not make the slightest sense, and even making some sense, it is serious because it is somehow to escape from the scrutiny of Parliament. Indeed, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs and Mr. Members, the lack of strategy, the recklessness of policies and the lack of responsibility of this government and the radical majority who support it can only lead to bad results. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u218	We turn to Article 175. the ( Amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September ), which establishes the financial arrangements of local authorities and intermunicipal entities. Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Municipal Social Fund ( MSF ) is a specific grant and a recorded revenue from the municipalities to finance transfers of tasks and competences from the central government in the fields of education, pre-school and basic education, and social action. These powers and responsibilities have long been regionalised in the autonomous regions and the decisions of the central administration in these areas have no effect on the islands, only on the continent. The municipalities of the islands are being harmed by those who tell them where to apply the funds, but do not have the ability to assign them the necessary skills. And the central administration cannot withdraw powers from the regional administration to deliver them to the local administration, because this would be an unacceptable intrusion in its autonomy. However, with regard to the autonomy of the regions themselves, they should specify which expenditure is eligible for financing by the Social Fund and also to monitor its compliance. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u220	We now turn to Article 181. o-B — Amendment to Decree-Law No 101/2011 of 30 September 2011 Mr. Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has one of the most expensive electricity in Europe, considering the purchasing power of families, and today we appreciate an amendment which constitutes a measure of justice and common sense: 1 million families with access to the social energy tariff, one of the most effective measures in the recovery of the income of the poorest of Portuguese society. What are the changes? Well, the rate financing model and the criteria for its allocation are maintained, which changes the bureaucracy and the formal obstacles, namely the need for the express request, which was used as an obstacle by EDP, to remove from this discount and its benefit thousands and thousands of the poorest families in this country. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] That is why, with automatic access, 1 million aggregates, with proven economic shortage, beneficiaries of the family allowance, beneficiaries of the social income of insertion, of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, of the social pension of old age, of the social pension of disability, these particularly vulnerable sectors of society will benefit from a discount that will range from 110 € to 130 € / year. While the measure did not work, while bureaucracy and obstacles allowed these people to move away from the discount and from the benefit of the social tariff, the right would like this measure and EDP did not complain. Yes--maybe! — it was in its profits that the discounts that were not made in each year that were spent for the benefit of the poorest families were recorded. But today, in the Assembly of the Republic, there is a cycle which is committed to reducing the costs of families. The unconformed reaction of EDP and ENDESA, even in the midst of a threat, shows how wrong it was to privatize these strategic sectors of the Portuguese economy and which are public services. But there is one thing that might be true for energy retailers in Portugal: it is open today, with the approval of automatic access to social tariff, a new chapter in the fight for basic justice in the energy sector. It is a path to correcting injustices that will begin to solve the problem of excessive energy costs in the economy of Portuguese families. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u222	We now turn to Article 185. o — Amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November (Regulations access to the provision of the National Health Service by users with regard to the moderating rate regime and the application of special benefit schemes), for which an amendment proposal was submitted by the CFP. The Bureau records the registration of Mrs Carla Cruz, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : A study published last week revealed that in 2015 approximately 9 % of primary health care consultations and 15% of emergency consultations were pending, and the reason was that patients had no money to pay the moderate rates. We therefore welcome the proposal for a reduction in moderate rates and the extension of exemptions, but we need to go further. The rate regime continues to be unfair, because it remains focused on the disease and not on the patient. The PCP proposal focuses on the exemption regime for chronic patients in the patient rather than in the disease. With this system it is recognized that there are chronic diseases that make the patient more likely to develop other diseases and that only by exempting the chronic patient avoids their burden on access to the health care they need. This proposal does not invalidate, on the contrary, requires the need to find an answer that ultimately removes barriers to access to health care. But the obstacles to health care do not result only from moderate rates, the lack of doctors also competes for this. For this reason, we note as positive the hiring of missing family doctors by resorting temporarily to retired doctors. But here too it is necessary to go further and it is necessary to hire the doctors who are needed in hospitals. The CFP will continue to work towards strengthening the SNS and removing all obstacles that prevent patients from accessing the health care they need for them to be provided in good time and in good quality. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u224	We turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 185. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 34 / 2008 of 26 February 2008 Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block presents two proposals on judicial costs. The first exemption from the payment of costs to victims of domestic violence who intervene as assistants in proceedings on the situation of violence. It is therefore an exemption which does not concern compensation actions, but applies to all domestic violence actions. This is a measure aimed at encouraging the fight against domestic violence. What is at stake in this proposal is to eliminate all financial constraints that may affect the decisions of victims of such crimes to resort to the judicial system for the effective defense of their rights. Choosing the fight without hardship to this social shame that has done more than 80 fatal victims over the past two years is a duty of all of us. And this fight is also about budgetary measures like this. No one would realize that this proposal did not deserve the support of all and those who consistently engage in this essential fight. The second proposal aims at exempting the authors of judicial actions for the recognition of legally protected rights or interests in relation to occupational accidents and occupational diseases. With this proposal, we want nothing more than to restore a fair exemption which has been in force for almost 10 years and which, without acceptable reasons, has been removed from our law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u226	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u227	It is fair because being a victim of illness or occupational accidents is already a terrible damage and, therefore, the recognition of rights in this condition of suffering and deprivation should no longer cost the lives of these people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u228	We are now discussing the proposal for an addendum to Article 185. o -A — Transfer to retirement of workers from the public network of slaughter of bovine animals and pigs. Mrs. Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Let me start by recalling that this is a budget for change, a budget that shows that a different path is possible — a different path, a responsible path. This is a Budget that trusts the Portuguese and their choices, which increases the income of families while at the same time balancing public accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a Budget that bets on social protection, which updates pensions, the RSI, the solidarity supplement for the elderly and the family allowance. This is a budget that promotes economic growth and job creation. Mrs. Members, this budget is also historical, historical in its relationship with autonomy and — historical why? — because it responds to a set of challenges facing the Azores. It is historic because, as this article proposes, it reiterates the retirement scheme for workers of public slaughterhouses in the Autonomous Region of the Azores established in 2001, allowing the slaughter network to fulfil its objectives by replacing its workers as well. It is historic because it safeguards an exemption of 50 % of the social security contributions of milk producers and pigs. It is historic because it guarantees full compliance with regional finance law. It is historic because it enshrines the right to health of the entire Portuguese population, eliminating the discrimination of the Azorians in access to medical care provided on the continent and introducing the principle of reciprocity and complementarity between the National Health Service and the regional health service. This budget is also historic because it preserves, for the first time, claims from the Azores for years, as is the case with the allocation to the municipalities of autonomous regions of income for the distribution of low voltage electricity, as is granted to the municipalities of the mainland. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is historic because it is more in favour of autonomy than any previous one. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u230	We now turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 185. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March 2009 Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the years, there have been several people, especially mothers and parents, who have addressed the Parliamentary Group of the Greens, and I assume that other parliamentary groups too, in order to demand the integration of lactose-free milk into the School Milk Programme, insofar as their educators have lactose intolerance. in this sense, The Greens have already made a proposal, in the Assembly of the Republic, for milk without lactose to be integrated in the School Milk Programme. Incomprehensibly, the PSD and CDS-PP have previously dropped the Greens proposal. The Greens consider that, for the benefit of children's health - and today so many children have been talked about - is the most fundamental justice to resume this proposal and see it now approved in the State budget. We believe that it does not have much increased costs for the Budget, but certainly has a lot of benefits for the feeding of children, especially for those who have intolerance to certain foods. We therefore believe that this is a good contribution and a good response that the Greens are giving to many parents and mothers who have gone to the Assembly of the Republic to ask for help in this regard. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u232	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u233	We shall then turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 185. o-B — Third Island Economic Revitalisation Plan. Mrs. Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: As I have already mentioned, this is a responsible budget that favours autonomy. If the Azores already had reason to be satisfied with the State budget presented, they now have even more reasons for the introduction of the various amendments tabled by all parties. In addition to the proposals presented by the PS regarding the reciprocity and complementarity of the health system, the reduction of contributions to the social security of farmers, the replacement of the retirement scheme for public slaughterhouse workers, the allocation of income to the municipalities of the autonomous regions by the distribution of low voltage electricity, there is also the inclusion of the standard for the fulfilment of the responsibilities of the Government of the Republic in the framework of the plan for revitalization of the third island. But more than a reference, what we really consider important is that the problems of the Third Island, of the region, are solved, and that is why we are working. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As we know, there are several serious constraints to the economic revitalization of the Third Island and which do not go through the inclusion of funds or rules in the State budget, such as the case of greater use of Lajes airport. This is one of the greatest constraints on the development of tourism on the island and goes, above all, through the definition of rules that allow for the deburocratization of its use. Yes, we need a decisive action by the Government of the Republic to revitalize the Third Island ; a decisive action in the negotiation with the United States of America, in the guarantee of decontamination, in the elimination of constraints on the civilian use of the airport, in the capture of greater tourist flow. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that much has already been done in this Budget, but we are also aware that much more needs to be done. however, when autonomy has been ignored for years, we know that it is not possible to do everything in a year, but here we will be to continue this work. Above all, there is something that no Member can ignore: this budget is more in favour of autonomy than any other. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u235	To speak on this proposal, Mr António Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal for an amendment tabled by the PS is, above all, a lot of talk and little action. There's no objectivity. It's a way to make you think you're going to do it! [[PS protests.]] If, indeed, the PS wanted to comply with what it said in its electoral campaign, which was to give the Government of the Republic the responsibility to pay its corresponding share in more than 200 million euros, it has here, in the State budget, the first opportunity to do so. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u237	And in the State budget there should be a specific standard, with specific amounts, and this is not. So this is conversation! It's making you believe! It's illusion that it's going to work out! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u238	On the same proposal, Mr João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This of calling any State budget as more autonomous or less autonomous is always a very relative issue. by classifying this budget rule as an effective standard for solving the problem, which, as we all know, is serious on the third island, regarding the impact of a series of issues on people's daily lives and on the economy of the island, we must of course realize that this standard, above all, compromises the Socialist Party. Now there is no excuse and it is very clear that, with the approval of this standard, for which the CDS-PP will contribute, the Government of the Republic and the Government of the Region will have to understand, but responsibility will be no more than the Socialist Party. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u240	Again, on the same article, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I can not fail to mention that I have seen no proposal from the PSD-Azores... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... on the plan for the economic revitalization of the third island or any other subject of the State budget. That is why I find it strange that they criticize the reference to the plan of revitalization of the Third Island in the Budget when they could. Members of the PSD-Azores and Mr António Ventura, have used the legal mechanisms they had at their disposal... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u242	...to present proposals for amendments to the budget, including the interests they considered not to be safeguarded in it. In fact, that is what we, Members of the PS-Azores, have done, have put forward a set of proposals which include this on the plan for revitalization of the Third Island. But more than introducing this rule, what is important is that the problems of the Third Island are effectively solved and that is why we are working, and that is why the Government of the Republic is working with the Government of the Azores. So let's continue this work. I must tell you, Mr President, that I had already hoped that the PSD-Azores would not present any initiative, but there is something that you cannot ignore, in fact, no Member can ignore: this budget is more in favour of autonomy and autonomy than any other. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is very strange that you do not recognize it, even more so when you are part of the party that you have been in the previous government and that you have done nothing, voting on the autonomys to be forgotten. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Question: Mr. Member, was it not your party that was in the previous government? Have you forgotten the Azores at that time? Have you forgotten the autonomy? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u243	We move on to Article 186. o — Extension of effects. The Bureau recorded a first inscription by Mr Paulo Neves of the PSD. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On this article, the Autonomous Region of Madeira has decided, and well, a few years ago, to highlight officials with an excellent rating, due to meritocracy, granting benefits of extraordinary holidays. Because because of the Financial Adjustment Plan, these meritocracy measures were suspended. Interestingly, we have concluded, fortunately, with the Financial Adjustment Plan, the Madeira Government has fulfilled its full responsibility. however, this Government wants to maintain austerity measures in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, not allowing its employees to benefit from extraordinary holidays. In fact, this is another measure that this socialist government reports as a non-friendly of autonomy, contrary to what Mrs Lara Martinho says, is not a government that is a friend of autonomy. And the honourable Member has another blatant case, which is that of the transfers from the Cohesion Fund to the Autonomous Region of Madeira, in which there was a failure of EUR 17 million. I repeat: this government wanted to transfer less EUR 17 million, money due to the Autonomous Region of Madeira and that this government was preparing not to hand it over.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u245	You're already on the PS proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u246	In fact, your banking colleague, Mr. Carlos Pereira, was the first to acknowledge, at RTP / Madeira, that the accounts were misconceptioned. A government that presents misaccounts does not deserve the trust of autonomy, does not deserve the trust of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. [[Well remembered! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u247	And I say more to you: this is a matter that concerns the Parliament of Madeira and not the Assembly of the Republic. Once again, the Socialist Government and the Socialist Party demonstrate that they do not take account of Madeira's own bodies, since they were the legislators of this matter rather than the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u248	You really seem like a member of Madeira talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u249	On the same article, Mr Paulino Ascenção, of BE, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Article 186 ( 1 ( c ). it interferes within the period of validity of a norm that emerged from the Legislative Assembly of Madeira and, as such, violates the status of autonomy and violates the Constitution of the Republic. however, the scope of this rule is not relevant and it is far from justifying the enormous alarm made by the PSD in the Regional Assembly of Madeira, and so little justifies the vote against this State budget, which is the best for Madeira over the last five years, giving it the highest amount of money these last five years. This State budget cancels austerity, returns income to people, returns pensions, contrary to the regional budget that you have approved, which extends for the fifth consecutive year the Financial Adjustment Plan which began in 2012 and which no longer exists on a formal level but, in practice, all measures are in force. They did not reject the insularity allowance, they did not reject the lowest taxes, in particular as regards VAT and IRS. It is a large 'can' that Mr. Paulo Neves accuses the State budget of maintaining austerity in Madeira when it is the regional budget that does so and the State budget is that it returns income to people. [[Congratulations from the BEe of the PS MP João Galamba.]] And who is an enemy of autonomy is not this government, it is your own party, which does not even accompany you in the proposals that you have signed here in this House. You have reason to complain to your bankers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u251	Mrs. Members, there is no longer any inscription on this article. We turn to Article 186. o-B — Repristinatory rule. Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will take advantage of the discussion of this proposal to try to unravel the mystery which extends throughout these days of discussion in the speciality of the State budget. This mystery relates to the initial statements of the PSD, which said very clearly that it would not present a single amendment to the State budget. The reason why I would not put forward any amendment was because the State budget had no remedy and, as I had no remedy, they did not present any proposals. So the mystery, which I hope will be revealed—they still have time to do so—is why we are discussing PSD proposals. It is that we are discussing PSD proposals, which runs counter to what the PSD said about not presenting proposals. But more serious and contradictory is that they said they did not present proposals, they presented them and did not approve their proposals, because that is what has happened. I do not know whether the House has understood what has happened in this House over the past three days, but the PSD officials have put forward proposals—they said they did not present—and when they presented them, they did not vote in favour of them. Mr Duarte Pacheco is not here but has repeatedly raised himself to say that it was unusual what was going on in this budget debate. I think it's more unusual than this is not possible. This is really unusual, it is absolutely spectacular, it has never happened anything like this, and it is good that the PSD explains why it said that it did not present proposals and, after all, it ended by presenting them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there are others that seem quite relevant to me. It is that these proposals which you put forward, which you then did not approve, which is something really fantastic, indeed, have other characteristics. When we look at the proposals we see that they are of three types: the first type are proposals equal to those presented by the PS and therefore « does not warm up or cool », they are important proposals for the Autonomous Region of Madeira and they will be approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u253	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u254	Then there is another set of proposals that, unlike those of any party in this House, are contrary to the governance of the PSD, i.e., are not equal to those of any party but are contrary to themselves. I'm going to give an example: the PSD presents a proposal on the IRS over-tax revenue. Now, I must say, in favour of the truth, that I fully agree with the proposal. In fact, I believe that the revenue from the overtax of IRS is a revenue from the autonomous regions. It is a matter we have been talking about for a long time that the autonomous regions have claimed and that is what it must be, but the constitutional decision has finally defined that the overtax revenue would be in the state's coffers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u255	And he stayed!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u256	Therefore, the PS does not violate the Constitution, but the PSD has decided to present a proposal that violates the Constitution and, worse, does what you have not done in the last four years, which has been retained in the state's coffers of more than EUR 100 million in the autonomous regions. They said they did not put forward proposals; after all, they presented them but did not approve them, and the proposals they put forward are contrary to what they have done in the past four years. This is indeed an unsustainable delusion and makes no sense. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, there is still another type of proposal, which are proposals that violate fundamental financial rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u257	The State Budget? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u258	You have decided to put forward a proposal, which I also think must be discussed, but you have insisted on a mistake. It is a proposal that I believe should be discussed because, in fact, there are costs that the regional health system has with the other health systems that must in some way be resolved once and for all. In any case, this resolution must be made with head, trunk and limbs and not the kick, as you see in these same amendments. That is what you have already done, for example, with debts from ADSE to the regional health system, and I am not saying, is the Court of Auditors report, in an audit of the recommendations made in the audit report to the social protection system for workers in public service, because basically the solution you have found, as the Court of Auditors says and as further details, both situations that have been operationalized by the PSD are liable to constitute possible financial infringements. This means, in this case, that you are. Members presented a proposal to resolve cost issues with subsystems that the regional health system has absolutely nothing to solve and violate fundamental financial rules. In short, it seems very clear that you are. Members of the PSD have at least to explain to the Portuguese—not even to this House, it is to the Portuguese—because they did all this nonsense, that is, because they decided not to make proposals and then changed their minds and made proposals, and because they made proposals that they did not even approve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u259	Mrs. Members, let us proceed with Article 186. o-B, this is about the exceptional measure of partial exemption from social security contributions. Mr Mauricio Marques, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Between so many proposals and not proposed, I was expected to come up with a proposal that minimizes the crisis in the milk and pig producers sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u261	Present her!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u262	in fact, the Government of the Left, the one who struck Europe, comes from Europe without anything in the sleeve that minimizes this crisis that the milk and pig producers are going through. [[PS protests.]] The only issue that is under discussion here is the partial exemption from social contribution. But at a time when this sector is going through difficulties as never before, what was most expected of the left-wing Government, of the one who hits Europe, was that it brought a response from Europe to minimize its problem or then, internally, instead of partially exempting milk and pig producers from all the contribution to social security. This was the proposal that I would like to see made by the Government on the left. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u263	We turn to Article 187. o — Revocational rules. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens Ecological Party, to whom I give the floor, is inscribed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens submit a proposal to the Assembly of the Republic, within the State budget, that we resume steps 4 /NP 18 and Sub23. The Greens consider that it was a gross error committed by the PSD/CDS government to end these passes or to keep them only in their connection to the condition of resources. And why do we think it was a gross mistake? Because, as the Greens have repeatedly mentioned, we are faced with the need to find a new paradigm of mobility, which has to go through a greater intensity of use of collective transport and the gradual decline in the use of the particular car, because thus they ask us the challenges that put us to climate change but also a work that we must undertake in order to ensure greater sustainability and quality of life in cities. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the student pass means something as simple as habituating young people to the use of public transport through an incentive given to them through the cost of the social pass. And this is extremely important because it can certainly reap the fruits of the present but also in a more sustainable future, also coming the next generations to respond to the new adaptation to collective mobility. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens consider it important that this proposal be discussed in the budget of the State, because, even if it is not fully approved, we must find here a modality, even partially and step by step, in which the student pass can be resumed. It is a challenge that the Greens will bring and bring to the Assembly of the Republic in the very near future, because it is essential that we all have this objective. To resume the student pass is to give a response to the environmental challenges that are placed on us in the present and that future generations, which will have a hand in the near future, can also give, in a new transport paradigm. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u265	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now return to Article 1. The proposal of the law. The Table records entries for Map I and Map II. For an intervention on Map I, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in proposal 174 - C, with reference to an annex to the Budget, a Map, in all errors relating to this Map, now appears about EUR 64 million for Carris and STCP. For STCP it is about EUR 3 million. Mr President, we now realize that instead of the savings solutions the previous government has committed itself, which also meant private investment, we now have spending public money, which is also combined with the news we have, the support of the payment of the new fleet by the State, by the Government, that is, by the Portuguese. The question is this: where are the solutions that the Government has for urban transport, in particular the port? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u267	We then move on to the interventions on Map II, the first of which is by Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposals put forward by the Portuguese Communist Party regarding culture are aimed at responding to very concrete problems of the arts and heritage. It is, on the one hand, to reinforce financially with EUR 1, EUR 5 million an aspect which is the greatest expression of cultural democracy, freedom of creation, making it possible to be more those who can access and be covered by direct support for the arts. On the other hand, it is to go to meet those on the ground who are essentially looking after our heritage, fulfilling their public service mission to safeguard cultural goods, a crucial role for the vitality of the territory and the fight against regional asymmetries.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u270	We propose in this chapter the strengthening of EUR 2 million to increase the national counterpart of projects financed from Community funds for the conservation of cultural heritage. The CFP considers this to be a necessary sign for art and culture agents, in a context where the current State budget gives at this level a still very limited response. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the future of a cultural policy that reverses the path of destruction particularly triggered by PSD and CDS and that begins to take the necessary steps in the path of greater budgetary expression of culture, towards 1 %, must begin as soon as possible. The CFP will, as always, continue to work positively for this objective, in a positive and committed way and therefore we present these contributions to the State Budget for 2016 so that culture is increasingly respected and dignified. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u271	To speak on Map II, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Pimpão of the Democratic Social Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These proposed amendments to the headings of culture in Map II reveal what fragility is in this area of the State budget. If we have a Budget which, in global terms, is considered a bad Budget, it is also true that in the area of culture this Budget is a true disappointment. And -- don't worry! — two weeks before the presentation of the State budget, we had Mrs Ana Mesquita to go up to the rostrum and demand that 1% of the State budget be for culture; Open... [[At least!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u273	... last 15 days, it presents a document in which not 0, 5 % is for culture. Look at the coherence of positions in this House! [[All right! Well remembered!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u274	You need to get out of the way!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u275	That's what he said. I therefore hoped that today I could come here to blame myself and say: "Excuse cultural agents because we have created the expectation that in the State budget we would reinforce the funds for culture but, once again, we present a State budget" — we the left ones, of course! — « cutting EUR 3 million in the area of culture». Three million euros! On the other hand, a State budget which, in addition to not valuing support for the arts, as Mrs Deputy has pointed out, is a budget that cuts into culture. What a disappointment, what a disappointment! Open... [[PCP protests.]] [[I'd say!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u276	And if the State Budget makes history — VV. Ex.as said this Budget makes history—because it makes history, because it is the first time they present a State Budget, approved by the Portuguese left, which cuts into culture. So they used the flag of culture to say that they supported cultural agents, but in practice we see that this is not what happens. [[Protests by Members of the PCP Ana Mesquita and Carla Cruz.]] Therefore, these amendments, which are cosmetic changes to the State budget, reveal the fragility of a budget that does not bet on culture, does not value it, and therefore Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the sensitivity of left-wing parties to the area of culture. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u277	To speak on Map II, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Cruz of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Portuguese Communist Party presented a proposal for amendment to Map II with the aim of increasing the strengthening of the funds for the Council of the Portuguese Communities. This is a body that is very important for Portuguese communities, but the budgetary constraints of recent years have prevented it from having a closer activity and greater participation, effectively fulfilling what is the objective and mission of this Council of the Portuguese Communities. in this sense, we believe that the proposed strengthening of funds presented here by the CFP will provide this body with the necessary means for its operation and to meet the objectives entrusted to it, as I said, objectives that are very important for the follow-up of the Portuguese communities, at a time when the policy of the PSD and the CDS has expelled some 500 000 Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u279	The Bureau no longer registers any entries.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u280	Don't make anyone, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u281	No, no, I don't make it! [[Laughing.]] Mr António Leitão Amaro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Today we end a huge confusion. [[PS and PCP protests.]] We have completed this budgetary procedure which, as Mr Mário Centeno said, has already been all and its opposite. It was a programme that changed with a sketch, which was plunged, that moved to a budget that changed with a wrong one, with another wrong one and with proposals for amendments that did not cease to fall. The only certainty is that after all, the government and the left probably don't know what they want. The confusion that has been this budgetary process demonstrates from the outset the government's lack of capacity, the enormous uncertainty it brings to the country, but it also produces a blanket of cuts that we know is not yet the State Budget for 2016. We continue to hope that the commitment of the Portuguese Government to take more measures, such additional measures, the plan which is not the b, is already the f, that is finally, in the name of the truth and democratic transparency, revealed to the Portuguese. This is an unwise budget. All the institutions said so, not only out there, but also here: the Economic and Social Council, the Council of Public Finance and UTAO. The numbers don't beat right. The expenditure, but above all the revenue, is based on assumptions that no one believes and simply sees the evolution of these months to say that what you foresee as assumptions is not realistic and, with this, they expose the country and the Portuguese to risks, serious risks. It is not only international credibility, it is the truth of this budget and then such measures are being prepared and continue to hide from the Portuguese. It is a Budget that is bad, it is bad for the middle class, it is punished with indirect regressive taxes that increase; it is bad for families with children and it is bad for businesses, which carry with context costs, with the increase of the IMI, which lead with the ISP, the tax on fuels that affect all, and with a reform of the IRC that is torn. For what? In order to benefit some sectors, all of them harming, benefiting non-marketable ones, those of the internal market, to harm companies that export and to harm the overallity of Portuguese. But it is the government itself that says that this flap blanket does not work, it is the government itself that says that with this Budget, in 2016 it will slow down employment, slow down exports, slow down investment. That is, we are on a worse track because, with this budget, the Portuguese pay more than EUR 2000 million of taxes to pay an explosion in the primary current expenditure of EUR 1800 million. After all, such austerity that was initiated by the Socialist Party and that we began to remove last year does not end; after all, this austerity is redistributed in more and worse, because it is more unjust. With this Budget they have seen Portugal inside and forget as it has always been in the highest moments of our history in which we will turn out—for exports, for the attraction of external investment—, undermining our credibility and jeopardizing the future of the country. That is why this is a bad budget and deserves rejection. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u283	by the Block of Left, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr António Leitão Amaro, at this final stage of the debate on the State budget, demonstrates that although we are here discussing politics but not with the contribution of the PSD. The PSD had as a large weapon of shooting against the government and against the parties that are part of the majority that supports it administrative issues, and it was not by chance that Mr.António Leitão Amaro spent almost half of the time tearing down, complaining, always upset with reality, saying that the big problem is the proposals for amendments given after time. Now, Frei Tomás preaches well, but he doesn't know much about what he's been doing in the past, since the PSD, however, is still a record of the proposed amendments made after time, over the last four years of governance. But it has forgotten to say, for example, that this budgetary process was one of the most compressed in the history of this Parliament and so it happened because they wanted, PSD, CDS and the former President of the Republic to kick in front of the creation of a government and postpone the necessary budgetary debate. The political crisis that they wanted to create in the country cost time, and this is how much time we have paid for the compression of this budget debate. [[Congratulations from BE, the PCP and some PS Members.]] So the PSD is, after all, complaining about itself, because it did not want or want to, missed the call to have a serious debate on the State budget. He is a beer boy in the classroom: the PSD does not want to debate, but he is upset because others debate; he does not want to participate, either with one proposal, or with one amendment. [[Congratulations from BE and some PS Members.]] And what's the rule? Is there any political criterion for your votes? No, it is by rule and framework: if we come from the bill we vote against, because it smells bad, it is from the government; if we come from any party, even from the CDS, we abstain because it may be that way that'management' falls. Mrs. Members, « management » does not fall for the PSD games. There is more politics in these benches than in the PSD bench. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] That is why, at the end of this budgetary debate, we can say — whoever wanted to debate — that we had a deep debate. And I believe that on our part, on the side of the Left Block, we have met the goal we have set. We said that we wanted to improve the State budget, and so we did, with proposals that have a profound impact on people's lives. The social energy tariff may reach a million family aggregates. I repeat, a million family aggregates. [[Congratulations from the BEe of the PS MP João Galamba.]] Combating precariousness will have direct consequences in people's lives, with improved law before green receipts. The increase in social support will have an impact on tens of thousands of children and the increase in social complement for the elderly in tens of thousands of elderly. We knew that this would be a difficult debate but we did not miss the call with what was necessary and with what those who voted in us demanded: with our word, with our proposals and with our seriousness. I believe that we can now say that we have met the challenge. Well, we can conclude until we were much better than the PSD, that it didn't even come to the challenge. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u285	by the Socialist Party, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: We came to the final stage of this discussion in the specialty and the phrase that Mr.António Leitão Amaro so much pointed out, in which Mário Centeno would have said that this State budget had already been everything and its opposite, I do not know whether it was a criticism of the PSD, it was not a characterization of the Budget, because it has been the PSD, before the debate in the specialty, during the same and until a few minutes ago, that it has said that the Budget is costly and irresponsible, but also that it does not return sufficient income, which it gives with one hand and pulls with the other. Whoever has said everything and has said otherwise, Mr. Deputies, has been the PSD. And it has said everything and its opposite because, indeed, it does not make the slightest idea than to say a budget that proves to the Portuguese and the country—and now, also to the PSD—that it is possible to make a difference, that it is possible to make a fairer budget, that it is possible to increase the income of families. And that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what you guys are with. Ladies and gentlemen don't agree. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member here said that no one believes in numbers and that even UTAO, among many others, had criticized tax revenues in particular. I advise you to read the UTAO report a little better, because UTAO says exactly the opposite of what you said here. So you can continue to make up the budgets you want, but here we are debating the budget that exists, which we are going to approve and where the Portuguese will finally have the opportunity — finally! — seeing a set of measures that you have not taken and which, as far as it costs you, will even improve the lives of many Portuguese families, especially those who have suffered during the past four years. The honourable Member has also said here that this is a budget against the economy, an austerity budget, which negatively affects exports, attacks businesses and comes to an extraordinary investment path. Sir, have you ever looked at the investment numbers? Repeat: Have you ever looked at the investment numbers? Oh, my God! It's just that if you look at the investment numbers you'll realize that what you say doesn't have feet or heads. It is that his Government was not only responsible for the biggest fall in the investment in the history of Portuguese democracy, as then, when the Portuguese economy left the recession — to a large extent because the Constitutional Court caught a significant part of the austerity measures and the income cut that you wanted to continue to deepen and make permanent — from then on, gross fixed capital formation ( FBCF ) grew by just over 2 % in the first year when Portugal left the recession. That is, after a fall of more than 30 %, investment, gross fixed capital formation grows by little more than 2 %. And now we look at what happened in 2015. I'm sick of listening to the CDS and the PSD ensure that the investment was in real recovery. Mr President, what the INE tells us is the opposite: gross fixed capital formation increased by 8 % in the first quarter, by 5 % in the second quarter, by 2 % in the third quarter and by 2 % in the fourth quarter. On what planet of the universe is this resumed, Mr. Antonio Leitão Amaro? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I shall repeat: from 8 % to 5 %, from 5 % to 2 % and from 2 % to 0, 2 %. On the contrary, it is a recommendation, Member of the Commission! It is a deceleration in all quarters and ends in the last quarter of 2015 with a negative investment. Therefore, Mr President, there was no economic recovery and, above all, there was no return on investment. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] The little economic growth that existed was from consumption, Mr. And it came from consumption because some of the austerity that you wanted to impose was caught, because the European Central Bank dropped the interest that you didn't want to come down and also because oil got into balances and dropped to about half. And I'm not the one saying this,
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u287	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u288	...it's the IMF! It is the IMF who, when looking at recent economic growth, says that it depends entirely on conjunctural and non-repetitive factors. Therefore, Mr President, yes, a budget was really needed to reverse the course, the course that you could not reverse, nor would you succeed, when we looked at the Stability Programme that you presented last year and which had things that you did not have. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There were cuts in the pensions, there was no increase in the CSI, there was no increase in the CSI, there was no updating of the subsidies, there was no reduction in the surcharge, as we have, there was no replacement of the wages. That is, I did not have any of the measures that, as far as it costs you, even increase the income of families by around EUR 1500 million. And if we add to these the measures already adopted in the field of specialty, this increase is even greater. And, Mr, this is a fact that no one, neither the PSD nor the CDS, can refute : the low tax burden even by 2015, is much lower than what you had committed to Brussels. And the distribution is fairer—yes, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is fairer — because the tax we are raising, the ISP, which is the biggest tax of all, is exactly the same as the honourable Members. PSD and CDS members increased last year. The difference is that we raised the same tax but you did not increase all the income that we increased this year. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a smell when you accuse this Budget of making a huge increase in taxes. The only huge tax increase that has happened in recent years was yours, it was in 2012 and 2013. This budget lowers the tax burden by EUR 1500 million for Portuguese families and taxes do not increase more than EUR 600 million. But we cannot deal with all these taxes at the same time — and I conclude here, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members — nor the tax burden as an abstract number, because we have to look exactly at the rising taxes, the lower taxes and the distribution of the tax burden.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u289	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u290	And we, Mr President-in-Office of the PSD — and now, ladies and gentlemen. President. — The next item is the report (Doc. Members wanted to do when they proposed and we ( PS, BE, PCP, BE, The Greens and I think that also the NAP ) plunged, with the fall to half of the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector, down which you wanted to do in two years, long before you finished the overtax, which would only end in 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u291	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u292	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, yes, this is the Budget which reverses and corrects the policy that you have made and is good news for the generality of Portuguese families. As much as it costs you, this is the truth. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u293	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With serenity—I hope, at least I will make an effort, until I believe that for nervousness you will have arrived —,... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u295	...I would like to remember two small, quite large details, that you systematically pretend to forget: who began the cycle of cuts, loss of income and bankruptcy was a Government of the Socialist Party, with the support and active participation of many of the gentlemen who now sit here,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... and who started a cycle of economic growth, economic expansion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u296	Expansion? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u297	... and the safe and definitive return of income was the CDS and PSD. And you can run, you can jump, you can make the inflamed speeches that understand that nothing will change these two facts, because they are past and we can only change the future. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u298	And when it is said that this budget is about a change in direction, it is unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because we were on a secure, definitive and sustained path of economic growth and income recovery, and now, in fact, we are rushed towards instability, not knowing what is going to happen to the economy. [[All right.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u299	Half a million migrants!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u300	That is why in this debate, in our specialty, we discussed many proposals—and the CDS said 'present' and presented its proposals and its ways—but unfortunately we do not discuss the proposals that you have hidden in the drawer and that when reality demonstrates that your accounts are not correct and that none of this is the truth, they will have to come here. That is the big question that remains here with no answer. And when speeches are also made on'management', perhaps he would like to clarify what they are thinking of doing in relation to proposals that materialise plans b, c, d, and f, finally, what they want to call it, because there will be many until we reach a definitive one. But what you already realize and that has become definitive is that there will be another plan. Therefore, if there are parties that swear together that there are no other measures to be studied, at the same time as the Prime Minister says here that, yes, there are other measures prepared to be implemented - and then we have the semantic discussion, which says a lot about reality, of 'if or when' or 'when or if' — what we all already realize is that reality is going, unfortunately, to prove that these accounts are not true and are not safe. [[PS and BE protests.]] What I hope, very sincerely, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is just that, with such irresponsibility, we do not return, in this policy of the ioô, after we are discussing income returns, which have already begun last year, we did not come back, for your responsibility, for your inconsistencies and insecurity and populism, to have to discuss income cuts. This is very frankly what I hope, though, frankly, when I hear these interventions, and, more importantly, when I see what we have seen, for example, articles that have not been approved, which are approved with proposals for amendments made to the pressure so that'management' can work, even when it does not work, what I hope is that this is not a turn of page, again, towards bankruptcy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u301	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that, tomorrow, in the closing period of the State budget, we will have an opportunity to make a deeper balance sheet, but still, now that we are completing the process of discussion in the specialty, it is even worth trying to make a balance sheet of discussion in the speciality of the State budget which was made here in plenary. Over the past few months, the risks of the Budget have been greatly discussed. I believe that at the end of this speciality discussion period it may be said that the greatest risk this budget poses is to make it forget previous budgets and what the Budget we would be discussing today if the PSD and the CDS were in government. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] With this, I do not mean that all those who are the prospects and the CFP proposals find translation in the State budget, that is not what this is about. Moreover, this also resulted from the discussion in the specialty. But the truth is that the risk of forgetting what were previous State budgets and what would be the State budget that we would be discussing if the PSD and CDS were in government is not a small risk to value what, even with a limited scope, has to be valued in this State budget by the prospect of achieving so many and so many things that Portuguese have fought so much over the past four years. Today, even in the specialty, we will have the discussion of proposals that point to the reduction of the maximum rate of IMI, which the previous Government has increased ; proposals that eliminate the exemption from tax benefits granted to real estate and investment funds, within IMI, that the previous Government has maintained; proposals that point to the concrete response to problems that are felt by Portuguese families in access to health, for example, with the reduction of moderate rates, which the previous Government has increased. Today, in the field of expertise, there will still be a space for discussion of many measures which, by reverse the way in which the previous Government has made, actually give the Portuguese a perspective of hope for everything that can still be achieved and why Portuguese have fought so much over the past four years. But there is another evidence resulting from this debate of the State budget. It is that PSD and CDS have not brought a single valid argument from the living conditions that Portuguese today have, from the difficulties that Portuguese today have to put themselves before any proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u303	You've even voted in favour! Have shame on your face!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u304	And it is even noted that the CDS fought against the proposal to reduce the maximum rate of the IMI, seeking to find arguments not in what is the reflection and positive impact on the lives of the Portuguese people of the reduction of the maximum rate of the IMI, but seeking to falsify here what is the practice in the authorities regarding the fixing of the IMI rate. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just the confirmation of a concern that we had at the beginning of the debate: is that PSD and CDS are not really against this Budget for what it is, for the steps it has taken to reverse the policy that was followed by the previous Government, they are against it because they remain silent if this policy begins to be reversed and if, in fact, the problems and difficulties that the Portuguese have on their day-to-days begin to find a response in this State Budget. Thus, PSD and CDS have difficulty keeping the speech they have had. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will have the opportunity, over the coming months, to assess the impact of all these measures and we will have the opportunity to effectively discuss their reflection on the living conditions of the Portuguese and the contribution that the CFP has also made so that many of these measures will respond to these more urgent problems and to those more immediate needs. The freeness of school textbooks will probably be one of the most significant measures the Portuguese will feel in their lives at the beginning of the next school year. But we will certainly know, in the coming months, that another assessment of this State budget is that everything that has been achieved in the discussion, in the speciality, of this State budget, all that in this State budget translates into these demands that, over four years, the Portuguese have made, will be an element of unity of the Portuguese, of unity of the people and of the workers to demand more, to go further in the measures that correspond to their aspirations and their longings, contrary to the tactic that, once again, the PSD and the CDS seek to use, to divide the Portuguese, to seek to create fractures between the workers and the people, to try to bring forward their policy of backwardness and national decline.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u305	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u306	I conclude by saying that for this effort the CFP will make a contribution, defeating once again the intentions of the PSD and the CDS. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u307	Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, closing the budgetary debate, in the specialty, we know one more wrong: the mistake of reality in the face of the palate and the will of Mr Galamba. When I was foretelling — I wanted to, we remember — the recessive spiral, the Portuguese effort, the struggle of companies, a country together, turned around and brought the recovery. And it was this country in recovery — and a recovery not in a quarter, not of two, not of three, but of more than two years — in growth, employment, investment, exports, which we left, and that is why they can do some of the things they do. But there's another wrong. Last September, Mr. João Galamba said: « Our way is to return income without ever asking for more taxes». It was week after week, week after week: fuels, tobacco, financial transactions, IMI... [[PS protests.]] The IMI about companies, small traders and small industries, yes! After all, it's not just austerity that doesn't end, it's more taxes than Portuguese pay. Note that it is the State Budget report that says that in 2015 45 billion were paid and in 2016 the Portuguese will pay 47 billion euros of taxes, including as a result of the increase in some fees! Instead of taking advantage of some economic dynamics to reduce spending, they explode in EUR 1800 million; instead of using some recovery from the economy to reduce debt, they pay the IMF more quickly, protecting Portuguese from risks and avoiding taxes in the future, what do they do? Charge with more taxes, charge with more expense! [[It's true! Don't you like to hear?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u309	Mr. João Galamba, your path is different from ours. But, whatever the way, I would like it to go well for Portugal, and contrary to you I say it: I wish that the next times are good times for Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u310	Uncuff your pussy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u311	in the same way we say with all the tranquility that the choices they make now, from a country turned inside, a country that cuts into the entrepreneurs' initiative, which, as the government says, will slow down employment, will slow down exports, it will slow down the investment, it has a Prime Minister who flees investors, they go the wrong way, and it was always the way of when our country was less well. The times the country was great was when it turned out, and that is the message we ended with. We ask the government to turn the country out. They do not repeat the mistakes of your own party the last time it was power and led the country almost to disaster. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u312	To close this debate, I call on the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we close the debate on the speciality budget, a three-day debate, a live debate, with proposals for amendment of almost all parties. in this debate we have seen the differences between the majority that supports this government and the PSD ; today, we have all become better aware of what the PSD is: it is against the return of the overtax; it is against the full replacement of wages; it is against the increase of the solidarity supplement for the elderly; it is against the increase of social income of insertion; it is against the family allowance for our children; it is against the strengthening of the social unemployment allowance; it is against the reduction of the IMI ; it is against the freeness of school textbooks; it is against the distribution of school milk without lactose in our schools; it is against the extension of the social rate to 1 million family aggregates. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] For four years, they tried to convince the Portuguese that it was not possible to live better in Portugal, they tried to convince the Portuguese that they lived above their possibilities. What we want to do with this Budget, all the left that supports this Budget, is to prove that it is possible to live better in Portugal, which does not have to leave this Country. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] To recover income, restore rights, dignify the Portuguese people, give hope to the Portuguese, is the objective of this Budget, the Budget for which they were against all the articles of the original proposal. We cannot fail to note that other parties have come to the debate, that the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Greens Ecological Party, the PAN and the CDS-PP participated in the debate with proposals. Yes, in the end, the budget is not the same as the Budget in general — it is and could not fail to be so for a government that respects Parliament, which considers Parliament. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] If the PSD felt that the budget was bad it was obliged to try to improve it, to put forward proposals, to participate in the debate, to try to change what was wrong and to support what they agreed to and which was already in your budgets. That's what we're asking of a party that's in opposition. Whether you want to do it or not, you are in opposition and the mission of the opposition is to put forward proposals. [[P.S.'s applause, BE's.]] We hope that, from now on, the PSD will come to the debate, for the sake of the country, which will present proposals and take up its options. This is what the whole Parliament and the PSD are asked to do. Democracy is richer when we all saw the debate and we were able to seek consensus. That is why so many amendments appeared after day 4. It is that the debate, for us, was not a proforma, served to approach us, to change our proposals, to improve them. That's what the specialty is for, and that's why it served the specialty! [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to approve a budget, which is the plan a. The PSD calls for additional measures, as it has also requested for four years. Specialist in additional measures is even the PSD — in four years, there were eight amending budgets full of additional measures! [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will close this debate, beginning a new cycle in Portugal, requested by the majority of Portuguese. Most Portuguese asked for the change of policies, most Portuguese defeated the continuation of the austerity the PSD wanted for the country. He won the country. It is possible to live better in Portugal and this Budget proves it. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u314	This concludes the debate in the specialty of Bill No 12 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2016. Mrs. Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs. Emilia Santos, has the floor to report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u315	Mr President, I would like to announce that they have entered the draft resolutions 179/ XIII ( 1 ) and were admitted by the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the preservation of the historical archive of the RTP-Madeira ( PSD ) and 180 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government vote against renewing the use of carcinogen glyphosate in the EU and the implementation in the country of this prohibition of use ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-15.u316	The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow from 10 a.m. on the following agenda: the first and second items include the discussion and vote of the rules of the plenary on the proposal for law No 12 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2016. The debate in the speciality of the State budget for 2016 follows, after which the overall final vote of Bill No 12 / XIII will take place as a fourth point ( 1 ). ( a ) and the final texts submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation on the proposals of lein. 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2016 - 2019 and 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2016 - 2019. of the fifth point is the preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, under Article 4 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic, in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. of the sixth item is the Management Report and Account of the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2014. at the end of the debate, there will be scheduled votes. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 31 minutes.]]
