ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u1	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officials, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda begins with an urgent debate required by the Government on qualifications. To open the debate, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Reforming is doing what has to be done when it has to be done and for the time it takes to present itself done, well done. Reforming is certainly not just cutting, eliminating or destroying. Reforming is, before, to build with demand in ambition, realism in diagnosis, accuracy in the calendar and focus on goals.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u4	After clearly identifying the problems that need to be overcome more urgently, it is important to define a horizon, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, whether he's on time or he's on subjects. For reforms to have an impact, it is also important to allocate means that make them viable and sustainable, to convene agents who execute them and articulate them, establishing criteria that allow them to verify their success and permanence. This National Reform Programme (NRP ) clearly identifies a horizon that allows you to observe the impact of the reformed pillars and identifies six essential themes for reforming Portugal in the next five years. This National Reform Programme allocates means that enable us to be confident about the viability and sustainability of these reforms. It is EUR 12 500 million directed towards more growth, better employment and more equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This National Reform Programme calls on Portuguese without exception, without excluding them, because we all care. This National Reform Programme, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it well characterizes the criteria which will demonstrate how Portugal, which is now built, can and should be very different from Portugal which has forgotten for more than four years. It will be a more and better qualified Portugal. We ambiguate Portugal where pre-school education is universalized, where school failure in the first years of schooling falls to half, where 50% of the active population can say that it has finished high school, where 50% of students complete secondary education in double-certified vocational courses, where fewer and fewer young people leave school early, where there are more graduates from higher education institutions, because we need more graduates, many more graduates, and where more and more adults participate in vocational training actions, because, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need more qualified to have more and better professionals. in this country, we find a level of qualification that not only remains low, as it is presented at such levels that, on the one hand, inhibits economic growth and, on the other, does not allow the absorption of an unsustainable number of long-term unemployed, who prove the absence of social cohesion that this country faces and that it should not let us rest for a minute. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] Reforming Portugal is of course to qualify the Portuguese. If we are proud of the way in which we are fighting early school dropout and have allowed more than 30 points to fall in more than a decade, we now have to do what there is additional work to make it really happen : reaching less than 10 % by 2020. If we know that those who qualify have never been harmed by this, we must now act with the 55 % Portuguese, most of us who have not yet completed secondary education, as well as with the 45 % citizens, almost half of us, Mrs and Mrs. Members, who still do not have enough digital skills to be able to take their place in society and in the digital economy that we are. If we know well that retention only leaves students away from school, that at no cost contributes to the satisfaction of the requirement and that perpetuates the indicators of iniquity that all of us are alarming, we must now mobilize ourselves, Mrs and Mrs. Members, so that we no longer present retention levels almost three times higher — I repeat, three times — at the OECD average. If we know that Europe faces a lost decade and that full employment is just a mirage today, we must now recover part of the time we have lost, promoting training and labour activation policies of the so-called ‘generation’, ‘ nor’, of the young people who do not work or study. If we know that today's life is even more complex and that makes a lot of twists and setbacks, we must now make sure that everyone finds in school the profile of professional, scientific or humanistic education that best serves their learning, having, by axiom, that no student will successfully be stigmatized or will see their future limited by options of training or absence of it that he has taken in his past. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] Knowing that it is important to strengthen social cohesion and that, consequently, there is neither, nor can there be, first Portuguese, second and Portuguese Portuguese who are now one, now are another, we now have to promote educational success, to continue to reduce early school dropout, ensuring that everyone has access to 12 years of compulsory schooling, while we launch the Integrated Programme of Adult Education and Training (PIEFA), creating a second-opportunity response to citizens and stimulating their lifelong learning, able to give each adult double-certification, whether it is school, whether it is professional, that it is really useful for their professional life and their personal performance. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] For all this, we will work, work to qualify, work to train, work to stimulate and work to innovate — verbs which, in the image of the verb « reformer », are 1. the conjugation, as you know. Mrs. Members, certainly because they are verbs finished in « air», we have already heard in this Chamber the voices of Cassandra, who always succeed when the tragedy occurs – it is like watches: even those who are stopped, at least twice a day are right,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...misleading, however, at all other times in which something is built.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u5	Mr. Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u6	I will finish, Mr. President. We invite the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen and all the Portuguese will help us to build, together and with confidence, what needs to be built during the new time, which we now have, to build it and so that what we thus build can endure and receive as neighbours new constructions that add meaning to it. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to enter the 1st. the round of requests for clarification. Mr Amadeu Soares Albergaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the Government has marked a set of debates to discuss and analyze the National Reform Programme 2016. We want to analyze, we want to discuss, but what? It is that what we have as a working document is a PowerPoint that no longer does anything but spell out a set of generic axes and proposals in such a vague way that they become redundant between themselves. Do we consider the qualification of the Portuguese strategic for the country? Sure! We always consider it, we always defend it, and we always put it into practice. Education and training are strategic foundations for the individual and collective future and, therefore, we state that they must correspond to a continuous and persistent, predictable and stable process, immune to fluctuations or humors, often purely ideological and unconjunctural party policy, which can divert it from the imperative to continue to improve the profile of population qualification. I repeat : continue to improve, because it is undeniable that we have improved!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u10	We have improved the real qualification because we have achieved this great desire, the foundation of the country's economic, social and cultural growth, with prudent policies, with continuity policies, with progressive and incremental policies — a position radically different from that of the current Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u12	Mr President, the Government has presented five lines of online intervention with Portugal 2020 for the qualification, but it is not enough, because the most important thing, which really allows the debate, is the concrete measures which show the way in which it is intended to proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u13	I haven't read PowerPoint!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u14	The 2016 PNR that we are discussing today has eight almost as generic and vague ideas as the five axes. Do we want dialogue in education and training? We want it! But for this, stability, confidence and continuity are needed. It is not possible to pass a law in one month and in the following month to put it in question, as in the case of the seizures of the revenue of higher education institutions, which has never, nor in the most difficult period of the adjustment programme, been made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u15	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u16	It is not possible, in a month, to move forward in a sense, quickly changing the orientation of decades, and in the following month, to change everything again. What we don't want is instability, what the Portuguese don't want and don't deserve is that a path of success is being put at risk. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the real qualification of the Portuguese there are no shortcuts, there is effort, commitment and determination and work. Mrs. Ministers, the PSD has put forward concrete, realistic and realistic proposals on qualification and that implement the five axes of intervention. They are concrete proposals ranging from preschool to lifelong learning and promoting school success to combating unemployment, improving the transition between training and the labour market. We defend a school of quality for all, which, strictly and demandingly, has diverse answers and, respecting the differences, promotes the merit and talent of each one. We defend an educational system oriented towards the success of all students and that values the freedom of choice and differentiation of school courses. We support a link between education, training and employment in promoting a better job development strategy. In pre-school education, we challenge the government to implement the law of 2015, in force, and to establish a concrete calendar of the year of implementation of universality at the age of three, assessing the possibility of this universality taking place in 2017 / 2018, and we propose measures that fulfil that desire, in particular through incentives to the authorities. In promoting success, in addition to strengthening and improving projects already implemented, we propose concrete measures for the management of classes. We propose, in particular, the end of the mixed classes and the creation of an additional period of recovery for students in difficulties at the end of the cycle. We propose measures that further strengthen the path towards improving the integration of young people into the labour market and greater coordination between schools and businesses. We present measures aimed at the real qualification of adults, including the creation, at regional level, of joint vocational training programmes for adults and preparation for access to political short-cycle programmes. They are recommendations, measures that ensure that we can not only reach but exceed the target of 10 % of the early retirement rate in 2020, which ensure that the completion rate of secondary education continues to improve, which reduces failure, not by administrative means, but because the performance of students really improve because they know more.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u17	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u18	I will finish, Mr. President. These are political measures that continue to bet on the rigor and the responsible autonomy of schools, which defend real qualifications and not just certification and allow this government to continue on a path of success that was being pursued. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u19	Mrs. Odete João has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u20	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Minister for Education, Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the National Reform Programme of the Socialist Government clearly identifies priority intervention axes that allow Portugal to be placed on the path of social cohesion and sustainable development. High levels of unemployment, particularly long-term and young unemployment, and increasing poverty and social exclusion require responses focused on the causes of these scourges. The economic stagnation that lasts too long requires concerted action that acts at the heart of structural blockades. We all know that Portuguese qualifications are our biggest structural deficit in the country. Without qualifications the economy is not competitive and the ideal of social justice will always be what we all want. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government by entering as the first strategic pillar of the National Reform Programme the qualification of Portuguese gives priority to citizens' appreciation and competitiveness, promoting conditions for a better future for people and for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The far-CL approach will be made with commitments, with broad discussions. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the recommendations included in the draft resolution presented by the PSD on qualifications are well the example of those who have not sought consensus in the recent past, before always imposed the unique path of strengthened austerity, weakening our collective future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, you are unable to see beyond PowerPoint, the PSD remains the victim of its unique path. The PSD/CDS government has dismantled adult education and training. In the last 4 years, after years of marked improvement and gains at the level of equity—and I remember that Portugal occupied 6. the place on the list of countries that best compensated for economic asymmetries between 2000 and 2009 — the school failure increased in basic education. More than 150 000 students rejected each year. The examinations and vocational courses in basic education were, in the previous government, instruments of early segregation of students, at the service of their ideology. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Government as well as large sectors of society are determined to reverse this cycle of de-investment in education and the devaluation of public school. The challenges are many, so I will mention only a few. The fight, without truce, to failure and drop out of school, providing early diagnoses to outline strategies for the improvement of learning and the success of school students. Measurement tests No 2. o is 5. the years, already announced by the government, are one of these instruments and contradict the logic of premature application of final exams, which, instead of propagated by the right government, do not evaluate fundamental dimensions of the curriculum and aim only to early selection of students. The PS doesn't give up the students. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS has already given evidence of its policies, of being able to increase the success of school without leaving any student behind. And because there are adequate answers to ensure comprehensive basic education in basic education, the government has ended, well, with the discrimination and segregation of students who refuse and with vocational education for younger students. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The National Programme for the Promotion of School Success is a comprehensive model of intervention that interacts with the entire educational community, because we are all needed in increasing educational success. The universalization of pre-school education from 3 years old provides adequate preparation for entry into formal education. Therefore, what the PSD now recommends to us is its bad memory of not having done any intervention at the level of pre-school. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Reach the target of 12. the year as a minimum level for qualification, in line with Europe, is a design of all, but for this it is necessary to diversify the training offer, in secondary education, and adapt it to the needs of the labour market. The relationship of proximity between all partners in the region where the school is inserted contributes to the appreciation of vocational education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u21	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u22	And in this area the country has excellent examples, such as the Calazans Duarte schools, in the Great Navy, and Rafael Bordalo Pinheiro, in the Queen's Caldas, visited by a group of PS Deputies this week, as well as scholarships and awards awarded by entrepreneurs in the Leiria region to students and schools. The fight against failure and dropout and the enhancement of vocational courses are central subjects for increasing employability, social cohesion and the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u23	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u24	I will finish, Mr. President. The bet on the qualification of human resources is, for all of us, the design to make Portugal a country of science, culture and knowledge. The qualification of Portuguese is the guarantee of a country with a future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u25	Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u26	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, education and qualification, as well as the choices we make about education and qualification, define our choices about the economy and society. Education itself is intrinsically a creator of equality or social inequality. It has this constitutional objective: to be a creator of equality. And when we speak in equality it is not only on equal access but on equal success in school, because those who have the same conditions of equal success in school, those who have good education, then have good employment, good wages and generate good economy; at least this is in theory. We cannot tell a 10-year-old that his place in the world is exactly the same as the place his parents had in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u27	13 years old!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u28	And this is the role of education: fighting inequalities! Reaching high levels of success in education, by excluding those who have the most difficulties, is very, very, very easy. Combating school failure, because it pushes into closed vocational pathways those who have the greatest difficulties, it is very, very easy! It's not the students who leave school, it's the school who starts leaving the students.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u29	It's just ghosts!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u30	What we need is something else, it is a serious appreciation of vocational education, a dignification of vocational education that can exist only to the extent that early-term dualization and vocational education ceases to be a pond way to where students with educational difficulties are sent, those to whom it is said: "You have not been cut to study! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[That's preconceived!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u31	But this means a bet, this means a pedagogical differentiation: students are not all equal, but they all have the same right to study. And this means less students per class; it means more teachers; it means more social support; it means free school textbooks; it means ending the retention culture. It is a very, very, very big challenge that public school has to do. However, the great merit of this Reform Plan—and it may have defects, may need to be improved—is to be different from the last draft of reforms presented to us here, but with a deep ideological brand, whose only thing it had to present was the creation of an educational market: cheque-teaching, association contracts, concessions to private entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u32	They're just ghosts!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u33	The creation of an educational market is the first step to have a first school for those who can pay and a second school for those who cannot, because, yes, the school needs investment. And that's what I wanted to leave here. I wanted above all to leave this idea, which the Left Block wants to welcome: the return to a 40-year consensus, the consensus that the public school fights social inequalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u34	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u35	I shall conclude, Mr President. The consensus that education is the first step towards making a country more progressive and better for all. It was this consensus that we wanted to welcome, especially because of it definitely withdrawing us from the idea of privatization of education and the idea that there may be a first school for the rich and a second school for the poor. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u36	Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I came here today to discuss the document we have on the table, not the past, nor any other questions. And the document we have on the table shows, as a first pillar, the qualification, and so on. The PowerPoint we had access to begins by presenting three diagnostic data, one on abandonment, one on qualification and one on retention, by defining some action axes and some goals. And in general, for what is stated in PowerPoint, there is no way to disagree. No one can disagree with the importance of reducing school failure and dropout, adult qualification, and the innovation of the education system. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u38	But to use a verb of the first conjugation which is not effectively like PowerPoint, only « air », I would like Mr. Minister to help me explain what these measures mean in particular so that we can have a more informed debate and form better opinions. Specifically, and starting with the universalization of pre-school at the age of three, until 2019, as you know, and we have had this conversation during the discussion of the State Budget, this is a measure that is relatively consensual among all parties in its statement, once again, but that presents great differences among all of us in the way to execute. And once again, as in the discussion of the State budget, I find no clue here as to how the Minister intends to implement this measure. In fact, I am even more confused, since in the State budget no value is presented to induce an application of this programme in the coming school year. On the contrary, we know that the districts where there is sub-capacity are essentially Lisbon and Faro, beyond Porto and Setúbal, not being Lisbon and Faro convergence areas where the 2020 Programme is implemented, to which the National Reform Plan will seek part, but all of its funding, I would like you to explain to us how you intend to bring this first step to an end. With regard to the fight against school failure and abandonment, he speaks to a first step, which is the creation of a successful school programme. As regards this, I ask: what is it that this programme will actually have again or differently from what already exists on the ground—and successful—, making it compatible with the diagnostic data it brings about retention, which is a real and worrying data? Having already announced that it will extinguish vocational offers and we know that there are many students outside their school age in several years, what measures will the Minister put in place to give the answer that schools, teachers and directors ask you to do? This is because, Minister, these students will not leave the system and will not be with the same answers that will be able to recover them for school success. Even in this issue of combating school failure, there are two measures, Mr Minister, also in a first conjugation verb and it is only not to spoil: the first has to do with ensuring secondary education, which, as you know, was a measure initiated by a PS government, its predecessor, and implemented in the previous PSD Government / CDS, and therefore there is not much to do here but to comply with what is already in progress; the second concerns reducing school dropout to the target to which it commits itself, which, moreover, is negotiated on the horizon 2020, and it is again only not to spoil. The previous government in 2010 took 28, 3 % school dropout and lowered it to 13, 7 %,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u39	...for which Mr Minister has only to come down to 10%; and I think he will succeed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u40	Would you like to conclude, Member of Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u41	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, the last topic I would like to talk about has to do with the target of 40% of graduates in higher education and the newly generated controversy on the appropriation of EUR 57 million. I would like to ask whether it is not with the State Budget money, which at the end of last year was so much higher than last year, that it is artificially equivalent the TESP (Professional Superior Techniques) courses to graduates, who will meet this goal. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u42	Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u43	Mr. President, Minister for Education, Mrs. Members, there is no development, no economic, social and cultural progress in the country without a real bet on a policy that invests in education and public school. The perspective that the PCP defends for public school is the centralization of its objective in the integral formation of the individual, preparing it for an active and conscious intervention in society, eliminating social asymmetries, promoting its individual and collective emancipation, making the decisive actor in the development of the country. It is not by chance that successive governments, in particular the PSD/CDS government, have implemented policies and measures to devalue public school in all its dimensions, either through the underfinancing and deresponsibility of the State by guaranteeing a fundamental right, or through the adoption of measures that lead to the early selection of young people, vocational and vocational education, introducing added difficulties in pursuing the school course, thus limiting access to higher levels of education. These options are clearly part of an elitist strategy for education. The rise in educational levels of children and young people is due to the value of public school, the guarantee of its universalization and equal opportunities in access, frequency and success in school regardless of economic and social conditions for all, as enshrined in our Constitution. The universality of pre-school education from the age of three, the end of dual education, the valorization of curricula, the fight against dropout and school failure, the reduction in the number of students per class, the implementation of a true inclusive school, the strengthening of school social action and the creation of a national educational charter that contemplates the planning of the public network of educational establishments, are measures that the CFP considers fundamental to improve the education of children and young people. The freeness of school textbooks is also already included in the measures that the CFP advocates to promote equal opportunities for all. At the same time, it is essential to ensure investment in material and human conditions, the qualification of the school park, the fight against precariousness, the creation of multidisciplinary technical teams and the extinction of mega-groupings. Vocational education, which is deeply devalued by the State, should not continue to be characterized by the absence of a public network of vocational schools, nor should it persist in the replacement of funding through Community funds as an alternative to the State budget. As regards higher education, which has been living for decades a situation of chronic underfunding, the CFP considers that the public higher education network should be valued, taking into account its coverage and territorial distribution, should be provided with adequate resources, as should access to higher education and its frequency, particularly through the strengthening of school social action.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u44	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u45	I'm done now, Mr. President. Investment in education, in addition to individually valuing citizens, is itself a huge potential for the strategic development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u46	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that, when we talk about development, we necessarily have to talk about the qualifications of citizens, and that is why the Greens insist on saying that when we talk about education, we do not talk about spending, we talk about investment and what we sow today. This is because it is an investment with return, with return to our economy, with return to the quality of what our economy can offer and with return to the competitiveness that the country can offer. It's not a minor matter. And, therefore, disinvestment in education is a wrong path and I would like to leave this perspective here on the part of the Greens. Now it is important to talk about the qualification of education, from preschool to continuing adult training. But, Minister, we cannot do this discussion without discussing the means for it to be realized and, Minister, let me give here the example of two schools, which are examples of numerous schools that exist in the country under these conditions: at the High School of Monte da Caparica, students have been studying in containers for more than five years without conditions of learning, Mr Minister, with the new structures next to them, to be able to be visualized, but without them being able to reach. The containers are your classroom! What conditions are these that offer to qualify these young people? Oh, my God! At the High School of Vila Real de Santo António, in the Algarve, the students are in new facilities, Mr. Minister, but with 15 classrooms to be equipped. They have no means of real and necessary qualification and education for students. Mr Minister, do not connect the air conditioning so as not to increase energy costs. If we want to talk about qualification, we also have to talk about equipment, structures and infrastructures where this qualification is offered, and we are in this context in Portugal. And perhaps it is necessary to ask the Minister: how are you going to go back to this? People need answers, schools need teachers, they need other professionals, they need students with conditions for their learning. Today, Mr Minister, at the Greens' initiative, we are going to talk about reducing the number of students by class, we are going to have this debate shortly, but I would also like to ask you another question, Minister: if we want to talk about education and qualification, let us also talk about education or the integral training of individuals. And he recalls with certainty that the former government 'has removed' from the area of education such important things as sport or artistic education and technological education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u48	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u49	I'm done now, Mr. President. How are we gonna turn this around? How can we once again enhance this artistic and technological teaching so that our students become fully trained and even wake up to other forms of knowledge and taste for learning? Shall we, or shall we not, be able to go back to this, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u50	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Education, this is the first time I address you in public, after having been appointed, and I hope to succeed in this very important and dignified mission. The basis of a developed and prosperous society focuses on education. That is why we consider the question of the qualification of Portuguese as a priority presented by the Government. Today, however, we have found that teaching tools and methods are strongly stuck to the crickets of the industrial revolution. Our children are conditioned for long periods of time, in overcrowded rooms, to decorate manuals and materials without understanding them; they are confined to playing in closed, monitored and hermetically hygienic schools, depriving them of simple pleasures of exploring nature; they are formed by competition and aggressiveness and little stimulated for cooperation and non-violence; they are finally formed to feel part of society and not as members of an abundant world of other beings and ecosystems. Thus, because we are deeply concerned about public education in Portugal, about the training of our citizens and about the sensitivity of the Minister of Education in this area, we have suggested that public education favours the freedom of inclusion of alternative teaching models such as the High Scope method, Waldorf, Montessori or the Modern School. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u52	To respond to this first round, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the speeches and questions put forward. In the first part of my speech, I explained what reform is to do, but for us, reform is also possible. We have come here to talk about reforms and, Mr. Amadeu Alberbergaria, I am not and will certainly not be the reformer dying of the kingdom, with these four months of activity. We have heard here, and we will hear more this afternoon about reforms in various possible ways. There have been macro reforms and also micro measures in the form of support, in the form of hesitation and even in some cases in the form of repudiation. It's natural, it's politics. But, above all, after listening to the honourable Member, I want to say that the PSD proposals for this National Reform Programme are not proposals that escape much from the image of what the Social Democratic Party has shown us. In fact, they are as intermittent as the party has been, Mr. Member, that basically in the State Budget, to the customs, said nothing, absolutely nothing;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Let's rule! Let's rule!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u54	... in the National Reform Program (PNR) and after seeing the document they presented, to the customs, says almost nothing; in the Stability Plan...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u55	Mr. Minister, it's a stability programme!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u56	...I've already said and you've already made it known that by customs, you won't say anything. And this is important. Without paternalism, and even with friendship, I advise Mr. Amadeu Alberdía to read the great Saramago, because he tells you something, certainly.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u57	No paternalism!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u58	No paternalism! If you could, I advise you to read Death Intermissions, a great book, and you will realize, Mr. Deputies, that being intermittent nor to death itself serves. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Therefore, it is necessary to be constant, it must be understood that this National Reform Programme tells Portuguese, everyone, to the government and tells this House a lot. And basically, through this National Reform Programme, politics transforms and transports a view of Portugal that reflects what we believe to be better and clearly also with these measures we want Portugal to become a better country. We have talked here about reducing early school leaving as a bet to get closer to 50% of high school students enrolled in vocational education, which is very different, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the early dualization of the past four years has led to an unparalleled experience in Europe and with which we want to compare, to this introduction of vocational education in the basics. We also spoke here on the good idea of forcing everyone to attend 12 years of schooling successfully, and I am pleased that Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has, on the one hand, made an informed intervention and, on the other hand, acknowledged the importance of the Socialist Party's proposal in extending education up to 12 years. It's important, Mrs. Deputy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is also important to say that these 12 years of schooling have resulted in a reduction, as the honourable Member said, of early school leaving when we had 45 % in 2002 and now less than 14 %, which is so important. Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira spoke about the importance of universalization of pre-school education. It is true that the reduction in school dropout I spoke about recently is stated, as you know, by a serious wagering of this government team in a national education service that provides all citizens of this country with a quality public service from the base, then continuing, throughout the education system until we reach adult education, that we will, of course, have the opportunity to speak in this debate. Madam Member, since you asked a question about preschool, I must tell you that we will provide this enough universalization of the budget, paying particular attention to the asymmetries in the network between the interior and the coast, the training of educators, the complementarity of the rationality of the financing that exists between the public network, the solidarity network and the private network.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u59	And the network of interests!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u60	... and, very importantly, the development of quality control instruments for all, but even for all, the institutions of the pre-school network, and this is important. It is important to have control instruments so that the entire network can have the right quality we want. to Mr André Silva, who spoke about the importance of a programme, a plan, for the promotion of school success, I want to say that this plan for the promotion of school success will have the pedagogical innovation that he commented on in his intervention as a priority axis and will also have education for citizenship, which is very grateful to him and that it is one of the main desires of the activity he has had in this House. Here, in this plan to promote school success, we will talk about structures so that we can really change the paradigm that exists now in our education system. We are talking, above all about how the financial crisis, the economic crisis, will never be fully answered, when one third of our population — I repeat, one third — and this is important to retain — sees school as an experience of failure, as an experience of failure. It is important that, instead of having a failure school, we can reduce the retention levels we have at the moment. It is important, above all, to consider this program of promoting school success as a great need to give a very ambitious response and that it can act preferably on three axes: on the one hand, the continuing training of teachers and educators; on the other hand, the involvement of communities, above all the local communities; and, finally, the autonomy of these local projects. We will have the concern, all the care, and we will put all our energy, all our means, which are so important, Mrs Deputies, so that we can continually see a development of local strategies that translate not only into greater and better support for schools, but also in an important way to teachers, but not into more centralism. We want this support to be carried out in a context of trust in local solutions and that in the next two years we can effectively achieve a reduction to half of the school failure rates. We will do so with the political centrality that measures of this nature require, but by organizing the education system — and this is important — depending on its compliance with local solutions. It is important that schools, as Mrs. Joana Mortágua said, can respond in a timely and effective manner to the difficulties of students, developing a plan that will then involve the entire educational community, the network of institutions, also of higher education, the authorities and civil society. It is important for us to understand that each student has its own difficulties, that we can know the difficulties and abilities of each student and that, properly, with flexible curriculum management, we can understand what solutions to give these students. This is because the flexible management of the curriculum is, above all, flexible management of the student's curriculum more than flexible management of the curriculum of schools and certainly much more than flexible management of the curriculum of this Ministry. We'll work, too, ladies. Members, so that there is still a greater strengthening in true equity, a equity that will be achieved, on the one hand, with the universalization of pre-school education, because those who attended pre-school education, as has already been said in this House, see the chances of school success increase exponentially, and on the other hand ( and we are already working so that we can achieve it throughout the legislature), with the progressive freeness and reuse of school textbooks. We are already working so that, gradually and gradually, the reduction of the number of students per class is a reality and so that the number of students in the classroom can return to a horizon that has already existed in the past in the National Education Service. We will also implement this equity with curricular enrichment activities for those who want to be in school longer, for those who can live a real full-time school. It is not to have more classes, nor to be able to be more time in school without learning, it is, yes, so that they can be more time in school to learn more, to learn differently, without being out of school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u61	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u62	And all this is in partnership with the authorities, with the local communities and without depending on the purchasing power of Portuguese families. In conclusion, in a very brief and very clear way, I join the Member of the Socialist Party, telling her that « yes», which together we will make Portugal a country of science, culture and knowledge, and I must tell the Member of the Green Party that « yes», that we will all achieve it together. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u63	To start 2. the round, of requests for further clarifications, has the floor to Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u64	Mr President, Minister for Education, it is natural that with so many intermittently he has taken care to speak to us immediately on the head of the problem of the tragedy. In fact, I must also tell you that I do not understand why you needed to leave us this warning soon. It may be because it anticipates, in itself, the tragedy of what it presents here, but also because of the ability to ignore the tragedy, which has actually resulted in a clear problem for the Portuguese and their qualifications—and has its partner of government, who was part of this bankruptcy ministry, who can talk to you about it—and that has had an impact on the lives and qualifications of the Portuguese. When Mr Minister comes here to talk to us about a National Reform Programme, we hope to be able to discuss how he wants to strengthen them because he brings us here a role of intentions that does not bring in itself anything new - of course, it is enough to know the partnership agreement Portugal 2020. I'd like you to tell us, very well, how we're going to carry it out. Mr Minister, please see that the PSD Parliamentary Group, because we really want to solve this issue, had no problem in itself in delivering a draft resolution containing measures and - see - are more than that set of intentions. Thus, we were very pleased to hear about these measures, which are, of course, already having them, since we have distributed them to be able to talk about them. Mr Minister, these intermissions can be understood if we ask you: what does it mean when you want to change the country structurally, why is that what is expected of a National Reform Programme? He has the benches that support him and that are also intermittent in what he has always been defending. Between the history of the surgeon’s laugh and a school that wants to qualify and believe in competence, we do not understand very well whether or not we can have a problem. What makes you like that? I do not know whether, during the debate on entrepreneurship with the Minister of Economics, a member of the Left Block said, well, that entrepreneurship was "a wolf with lamb skin". [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u65	What do you understand about this? What do you have to say about this? What do you think about the individual capacity of Portuguese? What do you think about everyone's freedom? What do you understand? It is that we understand something clearly: we are interested - that opportunities be given at the outset, so that everyone can and have the conditions to choose their path of happiness rather than the one that gives the government and the state. Mr. Minister told us about Youth Guarantee. I have asked you on two other occasions, because you also have the guardianship of Youth, although sometimes it seems not to remember, and to Minister Vieira da Silva,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u66	Not called « Youth Guarantee »!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u67	Now don't call it "Youth Guarantee", call it whatever you want. But, as I was saying, the Minister says that he has a concern about young people who are neither studying nor receiving training nor working. What do I ask again — the integrated vision you have for this? What's the point? Does it interest to leverage from the point of view of human investment, or is it interested in masking statistical numbers? How did you do that? Have you identified the solutions that the labour market can have? Have you ever organised, in any way we can know, those who are the public employment bodies and institutes to really identify where these people can receive an offer that is also job correction, in addition to the withdrawal of unemployment? Mr Minister, on adult training, which he told us so much here and which we have also seen as a substance, says nothing about how it will take place,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u68	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u69	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, about adult training, we remember the idea of a second chance. Look, Minister : either you have identified the way this training is going to be done, or then again we're going to mask numbers. What do you have to tell these people? What is the lifting that has already been made? How will it be implemented? What is the territorial involvement that you have to offer these people? How are your Ministry and the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education working together? Can we find out? Do you have the right of Members to know how they themselves can follow these works? Do they exist? What are the solutions? It's just we don't know them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u70	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u71	I shall now finish by saying that, of two, one : or there is an unbelievably well thought-out set of measures hidden in a drawer and that they do not want to share with us, and in this case they are, in fact, in a parliamentary play, or then there are no measures and it is a joke with all Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u72	Mrs. Sofia Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, over the past four years, we have seen the real destruction of the adult education and training system for purely ideological reasons. They were four years of purely occupational, non-qualifying, decharacterized training, and the example of this was clearly the Active Life measure. In schools, much has returned in the fight against school failure, in the increase in qualifications and in the quality of education, with the bet on an exclusional vocational training system, which goes against the principles of public school and dual certification. in this sequence, there is currently a significant structural deficit of qualifications in the Portuguese population: 55% of adults between 25 and 64 years old did not complete secondary education and about 45% of the workforce has little or no digital skills. The earlier bet on adult qualification was abandoned by the previous PSD/CDS government, with a significant reduction in both adult education-training and recognition, validation and certification of skills, thus breaking a cycle of convergence with the European average standard that has been registered since 2007. There was practically no adult education offer since August 2012, when the New Opportunities centers were prevented from receiving new registrations. These, which were closed in March 2013, left some 55,000 candidates with ongoing training process. Between 2006 and 2010, there were 409,000 adults who achieved school certification through the New Opportunities programme. In addition to these, 80 000 adults were certified in the EFA ( Adult Education and Training ) courses. According to the National Association of Adult Education and Training Professionals ( ANPEFA ), at the beginning of the academic year 2012 / 2013 the schools received instructions not to open new courses EFA. Thousands of Portuguese have thus been left with no answers and no opportunities to qualify. The priority now is to bet on increasing the levels of qualification of Portuguese through the Qualifica programme: it is to improve the employability of assets; it is to significantly reduce the rate of illiteracy; it is to value the education system; it is to suit the supply and training network to the needs of the labour market; it is more growth, more employment and greater equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u74	Mr. José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u75	Mr President, Minister for Education, Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, adult education, vocational training, recognition, recognition and certification of skills are certainly issues of qualification, but they are broader issues of democracy, social justice, cognitive justice and also of democracy in access to culture. And an integrated strategy for vocational training, adult qualification, such as today, has been discussed, needs the cooperation of schools, higher education institutions, but also needs the cooperation of other institutions, including a key institution, which is the Institute for Employment and Vocational Training ( IEFP ). I believe that the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training must no longer be a managing entity of the number of unemployed, with practices, indeed, absolutely useless, such as the fifteen-year presentations, whose inadequacy the Ombudsman came to recognize this week, in order to become truly an institution, an entity of qualification of Portuguese and Portuguese. To this end, we need to put an end to the strangulation that exists in the PSEI and which questions the credibility in fulfilling its mission, we need that the proposed training makes sense and that the local organizational units of the PSEI have more autonomy to do the study, the lifting of qualification needs and propose qualification plans, training offers that have meaning, that have relevance, that have connection with reality. what we do not need, and I think we will agree on this, is the instrumentalization of training to camouflage unemployment figures, as the PSD and CDS have done so eximilarly over the past few years. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] of which we do not need, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes, is of pathetic formations, as one who assists, on the creation of employment itself, in which training funded by the IEFP is proposed and where a brilliant trainer proposes to reveal the formula of success to find our own employment: ( MET ) 2. What was the ( MET ) 2? « Move that ass to the square! """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" from that, that entrepreneurship kicks that PSD likes so much, we don't need it! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] We, Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretarys, we do not need internships that do not give rise to employment, we do not need occupational measures that are forced labour. And the fact is that with the former Government, vocational training, the system and vocational training programmes were an example of the precariousness promoted by the State. In IEFP, thousands of trainers, guidance technicians, recognition and validation of skills, professional guidance advisors are with false green receipts. Thousands of people working at the Institute, who have a schedule, who issue certificates, who have full hours, who are, in particular, institutional partners with the CPCJ (Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth) or with the RTD (Instituto da Drugs et de Toxicodependência ) have never had a job contract, have always been green receipts or have been forced to form as companies. We need to put an end to this! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Therefore, Mr Minister, the proposal, the question and the appeal I would like to make to you is that, within this qualification plan, within the framework of this Qualifica programme, in the context of the discussion we are having,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u76	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u77	... we can make these initiatives exemplary, from the point of view of employment, i.e. that they have tenders for the hiring of trainers and that we do not hire them to green receipts, that the situations of false green receipts are regulated, including with private training entities, because they also live at the expense of European funds and State funding, that the green receipt is not accepted as an eligible expense in terms of hiring staff.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u78	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u79	To defend qualifications is also to defend the quality of employment and of the labour relations we have. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u80	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government schedules this debate on qualification as one of the pillars of the National Reform Programme that recently presented in a beautiful PowerPoint. A National Reform Programme that is a full-of-nothing hand for exporting companies, is a closed door for investors, is not supported and does not present any accounts. Nothing very surprising about the Socialist Party. That is why we are going to the debate on qualification, the debate on combating precariousness, so that Mr Vieira da Silva does not come here to Parliament for a loss. So I wanted to start by saying that we in the CDS know that the former coalition government was called to serve at a time when Portugal was on the verge of bankruptcy. We also know that with the 2012 labour reform, with the resilience of companies and with the effort of all Portuguese, it was possible to leave in 2015 a higher level of unemployment than that which was found in 2011. It's not the CDS that says it, it's the INE data that proves it. In 2011 unemployment was 12, 4 %,... [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] ... when the PS reached the government unemployment was 11, 9 % after reaching 17, 7 %. These INE data demonstrate that there was a successful employment policy, a path with sustained and gradual reduction of unemployment, but also with better and better skilled employment. It is the INE that says so and no one, in this House, will certainly challenge the independence of the INE. But it is also the European Commission that says so. And I quote the February 2016 Report : « In Portugal, the labour market began giving signs of recovery in the first half of 2013. Unemployment reacted to the resumption of economic activity at a faster rate than would have been expected (... ) ». But this report, Minister, says more: « In 2014 and 2015 (... ) recent increases in the employment rate have resulted in permanent contracts, suggesting that previous employment protection legislation reforms have contributed to reducing the propensity for temporary employment ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u83	I mean, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the work reforms that have been carried out with and in social consultation have contributed to reducing precariousness and promoting greater stay of work. That is what the European Commission says, and that is what INE numbers prove. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, Minister Vieira da Silva : We know that the PS points to the discussion on segmentation of the labour market for social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u84	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u85	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, the PS points to the discussion on segmentation of the labour market for social consultation. They say it expressly in PowerPoint, which is positive; they do not identify concrete goals, which is not new, is not actually positive. So, Minister, the question I leave you with is this: according to the recent INE data, is it available or is it not available to review the current model of combating unemployment and of higher qualification of Portuguese? And in this particular, what are the concrete measures, the goals and objectives that you want to lead to social dialogue? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u86	You now have the floor to Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: The CFP believes that, in order to improve the levels of education and knowledge of the population, it is important to work, among others, on three fronts: in compulsory education, ensuring the necessary conditions for public school to assume its fundamental and irreplaceable role; in access and frequency of higher education, ensuring equal opportunities; and also throughout life, both in the context of workplaces, because — let us remember — vocational training is a right of workers and it is also a responsibility of companies, as in the context of education, ensuring and valuing night and recurrent education. We also note here that vocational education needs to be valued and dignified and cannot be regarded, in any case, as a 'deposit' of students with the worst school results and a cheap or free labour market available to businesses. It is also important to guarantee everyone access to the highest levels of education and also to value political higher education, in contrast to what was done by the previous PSD/CDS government, which tried to turn it into a second higher education. It is important to value its specific task of applying knowledge to productive tissue, agriculture and fisheries. As regards vocational training as a measure known as 'employment activity', an element to be considered cannot be used to mask unemployment statistics nor to perpetuate the absence of any prospect of referral to an effective job. In addition, the former PSD/CDS Government used vocational training and other so-called 'active employment policies' to cover the disastrous numbers of unemployment, numbers for which it has responsibility, considering the massive destruction of jobs resulting from the policies it has practised for four years. How many people in this country felt the futility of successive formations that didn't take them anywhere? And how many felt that there were formations that didn't open any perspective for the future? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : Improving the levels of education and knowledge of Portuguese require that adult education and training take into account, on the one hand, the individual needs of each individual and, on the other, the development needs of the productive apparatus, agriculture and fisheries, the needs of the country. It is also important to reflect on this debate another situation: the reality of those who, having a higher education, hide it in applications and job interviews, because they know that this will be an obstacle to access to that same job. And so many others who, to escape unemployment and poverty, were forced to emigrate, applying their knowledge in other countries and leaving our country more impoverished. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Improving the levels of education and knowledge of the population is not disconnected from the valorisation of public school, in all levels of education, nor from policies that combat impoverishment and promote employment with rights — employment with the rights of those who are in the process of education and training and employment with the rights of teachers and trainers who are giving the lessons and that same training. It does not respond to unemployment with successive vocational trainings or successive professional stages, in fact, revenue perpetuated by the previous PSD/CDS Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u88	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u89	I will finish, Mr. President. It must also be borne in mind that learning, knowledge and training, rather than responding to'markets' and to their oscillative wills, must, indeed, respond to the aspirations of each and to the development needs of our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u90	You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security : In the first intervention, the Greens have perhaps left what I can call clues on some subjects in which we will insist in the coming days, because we believe that they are, in fact, very important and often devalued in the debate on education. And, in fact, they also structure the learning conditions in order to achieve those objectives which Mr Minister has now proposed to the Assembly of the Republic in this particular case. But there is something else we need to consider: will we bet on qualifications, and then what will we do to these qualified people? And, if I allow the expression, internalize them in the country, it is a fundamental issue. That is to say, it is important to combat forced emigration — not the desired one, because in this, of course, people are free — from qualified young people to give their knowledge to the enrichment of other countries rather than that country that has put in their qualifications, not because young people do not want to, but because this country shuts the door to them, which is a deep irresponsibility. And what happened to the previous government was, quite often, in total irresponsibleness of rulers, encouraging qualified young people to look for opportunities in another country. This was, in fact, a macadamada that the rulers themselves gave to our development potential. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] And there is another fundamental issue: employment which has been created in the meantime is essentially precarious employment and this precariousness, of course, is also an obstacle to training itself, because it is not available to the poor to provide decent training for their qualification. On the other hand, Mr Minister, it has already been mentioned here, and this is something that the Greens liked to underline, which spread and spread unemployment numbers with training numbers. It is not possible to confuse these situations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u92	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u93	... and, Minister, it is essential that one place to another, that training, qualification be, in fact, a bridge of passage to what one wants, which is quality employment. And for this, of course, the dynamisation of our economy, for which I believe that the majority in this House is working, and also the government, in particular through the reintroduction of income to people, which was made in the last State budget, is a determining issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u94	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u95	Mr President, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security: The NAP believes in a society that integrates more empathic, confident and passionate citizens trained to participate critically, actively and constructively in a new paradigm where non-violence is a matrix and not a punctuality or a sign of weakness. But to achieve this degree of empathy and maturity, we need to promote new ways of being, feeling and learning in our schools. Consider, for example, the case of Finland, a country known to have one of the best education systems in the world, occupying top positions in various disciplines in the prestigious PISA rankings of OECD. Experts and politicians from around the world study their model to understand their secrets and replicate them in other countries. With current technological advances, classical forms of teaching are no longer meaningful. The current educational needs are not the same and we need something suitable for the 21st century, based on a collaborative and cooperative system. This can only be achieved by working from the structure, teaching our children how best to relate to the community, to the differences, to the current challenges and to the other beings and ecosystems. Therefore, Mr Minister, we also propose that it develop, at the level of basic education, an autonomous discipline of civic, personal, environmental and animal welfare education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u96	The Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has the floor for the closing of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is part of a debate which the Government intends to extend to the whole of society in order to deepen the objectives and implement the National Reform Programme. Let me focus on one of the critical dimensions of this first objective, the qualification of Portuguese, which relates to the qualification and training of the adult population. I think it is not difficult to agree that there are at least four major fractures in Portuguese society, with regard to qualifications issues. A first fracture is of a generational nature, because unfortunately it is still a majority in the active-age population who have not reached the level which is today considered to be the minimum of qualification, which is that of the 12 years of schooling, i.e. 55 %, which is more than twice the European average. This is an essential fracture, to which we must answer. Another fracture has to do with the fact that, despite continued progress over the past few years, we continue to have high levels of early school dropout. This means that in about five years more than 100 000 young people are released into the labour market without the qualification of 12. the year, which means that we are still feeding the first fracture, with young without the necessary qualification. A third fracture is more recent and it is the one that has to do with the growth of the number of young people who are not in school, neither in training nor in employment. These are risks of social exclusion and impoverishment in the country that have grown here, as in Europe, over the past few years. Young people in this situation are around 19 % from 20 to 29 years old. A fourth fracture concerns the fact that, unfortunately, in recent years, we have witnessed the greatest growth in emigration that there is memory in Portugal in recent decades. And that reflects the level of employment...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u99	...and at the level of unemployment! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fact is that at the end of last year, Portugal had fewer than 400 000 jobs than it had before the emergence of the economic and financial crisis and recovery is still far from being realized. It remains to be added that around 20 % of this emigration are qualified young people and most of them are young people who have left the country. In order to respond to these problems, a qualification strategy is essential for those who have already left formal school. It is a complex and demanding challenge. Portugal has very low levels of lifelong learning. The financial framework for Portugal 2020 has devalued this concern and has underfinanced this strategic need of the country. Finally, it is also insufficient the technical quality of the structures that are at the service of fighting for lifelong education. The scenario I have also drawn in the field of vocational education and training has a relatively simple portrait, perhaps somewhat less consensual: serious lack of resources in the current centres for qualification and vocational education, which are far from the efficiency they should have; a formative offer that is far from the needs of both young people and adults, or the labour market; and, of course, a system that has suffered severely the crisis that was generated with the irresponsible dismantling of the New Opportunities programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u100	Irresponsible was the failure of the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u101	It is legitimate to correct policies with which we disagree, when we are in government, it is not legitimate to do so at the expense of the needs, interests and mobilization of hundreds of thousands of citizens. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] This irresponsible dismantling led us to a situation that, if not dramatic, was loaded. In the last year in which there is information available, the school year 2013 / 2014, adults attending forms of education were 39 000, less than one third of the 130 000... [[PSD protests.]] No, it was not of the 130 000 who attended the New Opportunities, because there were many more! It was less than one third of the 130 000 who attended adult education in 2000 / 2001. You put adult education in the middle of the 20th century,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and this is a change that has no technical justification or scientific justification and much less political and social justification. It is therefore necessary to turn around, it is necessary to re-establish an integrated, coherent and renewed adult education and training system, and this is an essential basis of the Qualifica initiative, which has to do with the first axis of the National Reform Programme. This is a goal that is now, again, to put aside the Ministries of Education, Labour and Higher Education, contrary to a policy of separation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u102	Separation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u103	...and asymmetry, which was the mark of Minister Nuno Crato's education and training policy, and it was the one that actually ruled the guidelines in the last four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course, these objectives have a set of conditions. It is not easy to recover and heal the damage caused by wrong options over several years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u104	It's true, it's true! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u105	But let's move on to the fundamentals. This policy, with regard to adult education and qualification, involves a threefold integration: of institutional actors and actors, with the coordination of the three Ministries and all entities of the public, social and private sector which intervene very intensively in the field of vocational training and qualification; of different types, more formative responses, more linked to the formal education system, more linked to work experience, more linked to the dual adult training experiences; and also integration of responses from those who manage this whole system, making it coherent and unified, in the perspective of the trainer, the network and portfolio of training courses. All of these objectives and all of this strategy have goals to achieve, and they are goals that must compromise the country as a whole: finally exceed 50% of adults in secondary education, in professional double-certification courses, I repeat, in secondary education, in dual-certification pathways; reaching the goal, which will be historic, of more than half of the active population with more than 12. the year of training; reaching the ambitious goal of having 15 % adults in lifelong learning in 2020; and, of course, also increasing the situation of adults in higher education at closest levels of the European Union. How will we achieve these goals contained in the National Reform Programme? Changing the logic of qualification and vocational training, not destroying, of course, everything that exists, because the system has high quality components, schools today have an opening to vocational education that did not exist for decades, and this is more valuable, are positive factors for our response. We must therefore bet cross-border on a system of credits based on modular training, training which contains for the certification of persons and which is not merely instrumental in the management of unemployment numbers. We must effectively create an instrument with high portability, a sort of qualification passport that accompanies all adults throughout their careers and where all certification or training processes that are acquired throughout their lives can be added. It is important to combine the logic of modular training and credit with the needs identified in the labour market and in the evolution of the economy. It is also important to promote the quality of the network of operators of the national qualification system, to ensure that the national qualification catalogue, created precisely for this purpose, can improve qualifications, involving sectoral councils and updating that same national qualification catalogue. We must also deepen, and here, in fact, the possibilities of systems for recognition and validation of competences in the professional field, which are essential for the qualification of adults. We must also make it more flexible, and this has been a little bit of a focus today, training in basic skills, in particular by linking the power of the author to this dimension and not forgetting the crucial role of basic training in information technology. It is also important to activate and strengthen the network of qualification centres, reaching the number of 300 qualification centres in 2017. But it is not a question of adding qualification centres to the existing ones; it is about becoming the existing effective centres, with capacity, with resources, with skills to respond to the needs of adults and also of young people who leave the education system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All these dimensions will be part of the development of the National Reform Programme, the final version of which will be discussed in this Assembly. At the end of this debate, I would like to highlight two or three very important points. Firstly, there is a very broad consensus in Portuguese society and also in this House on the priority that education, training and vocational qualification should have. However, there are lines of separation and democracy is made of the assumption of these lines of separation. I identify three fundamental lines that distinguish, which divide the political options in this House, the first of which has to do with defending the public and universal character of the basic and secondary education system. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] This is a central aspect that divides this assembly...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u106	And quality too!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u107	... and that is effectively opposed to movements in the sense of privatization, through various ways, of the education and training system. A second difference, and this is a truly radical difference, is to put an end to the disastrous experience of dualization of the teaching system at an early time of the growth of children and young people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u108	Go visit the schools!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u109	The so-called "vocational" system for children and young people, as the previous majority has conceived, has been criticized and criticised internationally by all the bodies that study the problem of education. from the European Commission to the OECD the situations would never end again. The early dualization system is socially segregation, has problems of gender equality, has problems that could once again put the dynamics of separation, of inequality in our society to suffer a delay. In our view, we are advised, and I believe, in the view of the majority of this House, to put a final point on an experience that has not been technically or scientifically substantiated and that was truly a disaster introduced in the education system in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The third difference, and with it I conclude, is well expressed in the proposals that the PSD draft resolution points out — and fortunately they presented it. But this draft resolution has a problem: it has two types of proposals, some good ones, which are precisely those you never realized when you were in government — these are good ones! — in particular the qualification of adults. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And they have others that are not good, they are bad, and they are the ones that you have developed while in government, such as partial privatization of education, such as early dualization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u110	You want to finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u111	These are these differences, these distinctions that need to be made clear to Portuguese society and that will certainly be clear at the end of this debate. [[PSD protests.]] What you don't hide, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like, too, to be more united than that which divides us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u112	Mrs. Members, having concluded that this is the first item on our agenda, we are now moving to the second item which consists of the debate on Bill No 149 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulation of parental responsibilities by mutual agreement with the conservatories of the civil registry in the event of dissolution of de facto unions and similar cases ( PS ). To present this bill, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party today brings to this House a legislative initiative of relative simplicity and which aims to give a simple answer and which, at present, does not exist in the legal order before a gap which, in fact, is for some relatively incomprehensible. Indeed, with the passage of divorce by mutual consent to the conservatories of the civil registry, it is now possible to proceed to the regulation of parental responsibilities, allowing a less costly way for families and is, in fact, agile in a framework in which there is agreement between parents on parental responsibilities. However, in cases of dissolution of de facto union, we do not find the equivalent mechanism that allows, without recourse to the judicial procedure, in a case where there is full agreement between both parents, to resolve in equivalent terms, in the same forms, in a broken way, the regulation of parental responsibility. Similarly, in cases where there is not even a de facto union or where there is no marriage before, we are faced only with a situation where two people have to regulate their parental responsibilities in relation to one minor, once again it seems to us to be aware of this camouflage of the regime which is currently in force, in the same terms, for the regulation of parental responsibilities. In essence, it is intended to follow the same path, with the intervention of the Public Ministry, with the need for revision of the agreement, where appropriate, in accordance with the guidelines of those who validate it, or not, allowing, as said, a full equivalence between the regime which was revised in substantive terms in the previous legislature in order to equate de facto unions, situations where there is no de facto union and situations where there is no marriage and where parental responsibilities need to be regulated, with the situations in which, after all, relations have ceased, or if, perhaps, these relations did not even become legal form or follow-up, it becomes essential to give a simple, rapid solution and to ensure the interest of the child in a case where, in all cases, there is agreement between all parties. This is the purpose of our project. Obviously we are open to technical improvements and a deepening of the discussion, but it seems to us that, by its simplicity, the project may deserve an agreement from the whole House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u114	Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft law in question presents an amendment which, in fact, we consider fair, insofar as it confers the same rights as those of married couples with regard to the regulation of responsibilities on children in the event of dissolution of the union by mutual agreement. at this time, and since 2008, the procedures, in cases of divorce by mutual consent, regarding this regulation of the responsibilities in which there is agreement, are more agile, and well, there is the possibility of disregarding the judicial route, more complex and, above all, with more personal and financial burdens for families. However, at the moment, this possibility does not exist for unmarried parents, because the de facto unions that dissolve do not need extra formality. We therefore consider that the best interest and legal certainty of children are benefited by the process of regulating more simplified and speedy parental responsibilities. It therefore seems to us that, in cases where a de facto union dissolves by mutual agreement and it is possible that this agreement extends to the regulation of these responsibilities, it is granted to these parents and minors the same treatment, without recourse to courts, making the process less costly for families and, above all, more healthy for minors themselves. The obligation to use the judicial procedure to regulate the agreement on parental responsibilities currently brings important limitations to families and, in particular, to children in these situations. Let us take a small example: if it is necessary to request a passport for a minor, whose parents are separated after the de facto union, sentence or agreement approved for the regulation of parental responsibilities is required. However, in cases where there has been mutual agreement and there is no recourse to the court, in force of situations of informal regulation, this sentence simply does not exist and in order to resolve this situation, parents have to resort to a court, which seems manifestly unfair and unnecessary, when the agreement previously existed. This is just one example of how administrative agility in this area can in fact help to simplify the lives of many children and parents in these situations. We therefore follow this initiative of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u116	Mrs Andreia Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is always with great pleasure and interest that, on behalf of my parliamentary group, I participate in debates where the issues brought and discussed are in the field of family law and especially when we talk about the lives of minors. As has already been mentioned, this draft law of the Socialist Party effectively extends the possibility of regulating parental responsibilities in the conservatory of civil registration, in case of de facto separation, as well as between non-married parents, whenever there is a mutual agreement, as has already been mentioned, as is currently the case for married parents, in the context of a process of divorce by mutual consent, where the agreement on the regulation of parental responsibilities is established. This bill came together with a wider reform that had already been initiated by the previous government with the constant concern that it has always demonstrated by a set of changes focused on the child. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, as a reformist and humanist party, has always kept the concern at the centre of its political action with legislative changes aimed at agitating and improving processes at the service of children, their rights and interests, shortening deadlines and, above all, simplifying the lives of families. In short, the concern of the PSD was always to provide assurances of the preservation of the child's best interests. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the solution outlined in this proposal retains this safeguard, since, if the agreement led to the conservatory does not guarantee the protection of the interests of the child, there will always be recourse to the judicial procedure with the added guarantees it offers. Thus, this Socialist Party project complements and adds the changes that the PSD had already made, so it does not deserve our opposition. When fundamental rights are involved, such as the interests and rights of the child and the rights of the family, we cannot hold on to sterile discussions, cyclical differences or, even worse, trying to achieve political gains at the moment. The proposals are not good or bad, because they are ours or because they are from the others. The PSD does not identify with this position and the Portuguese know it. If this proposal, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it complements and strengthens our reform and maintains the philosophy of the best interests of the child cannot deserve our repair or our challenge. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u118	Mrs. Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start with the end and highlight the relevance of this initiative that the PS brings to us today. The CDS-PP never steals into the debate, it is known, and above all, it does not steal from the acceptance of solutions that facilitate, simplify and disband the lives of citizens, provided that, of course, all interests in the presence are seized. In this case, the interests of the child are duly guarded and, therefore, we do not steal from this debate and welcome it. That is exactly what is at stake here, and that is why the CDS-PP will vote in favour of the proposed amendments, without prejudice to the fact that there is a simpler and more correct way, because it does not mix procedural rules with substantive rules, which is a legislative technique that we should avoid, especially when the Civil Code and the Civil Register Code are concerned, but this is a problem that we will deal with next and which does not matter to the substance of the matter. The question is precisely this: to facilitate the life of parents, who are not married or separated in fact, allowing them to submit the agreement of parental responsibilities to the assessment of the conservator of the civil register, always with the imperative of the Public Ministry, thus making the process faster, simpler and less costly and thus withdrawing some weight also to the courts that is not so much. In fact, when there is no real dispute or, at least, when there is no apparent dispute, it is not justified to overburden parents and courts with a more intricate process and, necessarily, more expensive for all, parents and taxpayers, and also more late, with the advantage, in fact, to be able to contribute to the reduction of informality that often happens in this area and that, indeed, may call into question the directness of minors. Therefore, this spirit which chaired the revision of the substantive law, which, recently, also spoke to Mrs Andreia Neto, which the former Government carried out, and in which the CDS-PP also had great participation, aimed precisely at simplification and speed, which, moreover, the PS recognizes in the expression «... despite the clarity of the substantive regime...» which can be read in the explanatory statement of the bill and which, moreover, did not reject. I'm done as I started, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS-PP will vote in favour of these amendments even though they discuss the form, with the view that the same result can be achieved with an easier and more consistent practice with the best legislative technique. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u120	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft law which the PS brings to the discussion on this matter has as its motivation, in fact, a balance between the regime that is already available to married citizens and that of those who live in a situation of de facto union, as regards the regulation of parental responsibilities, at the time of the dissolution of this family situation. In other words, two citizens who are married, at the time of the dissolution of marriage by mutual agreement, may, in a conservatory, lead to the regulation of parental responsibilities, without the need for judicial intervention and thus only a mere appreciation by the Public Ministry, which does not happen with respect to couples living in a situation of de facto union. It seems to us that the initiative which, as a matter of fact, puts us as the main concern is whether or not there is a legal intervention which, in some way, protects the interests of children in a situation where parental responsibilities are regulated. This discussion was already held a few years ago in 2008 when we discussed the review of the legal regime of divorce. The discussion was made with many reservations which were raised in this regard because it was then understood that a judicial intervention in a matter such as the regulation of parental responsibilities might not be warned of the problems that might arise from the point of view, up to the specific regulation of a situation which often has conflicts between spouses or former spouses. The truth is that the reality has confirmed us otherwise, that is, in situations where that family relationship ends by mutual agreement and in which divorce can be made by mutual agreement, it is also not normally in the regulation of parental responsibilities that arise problems and, even when, as a rule, the intervention of the Public Prosecutor eliminates this conflict, these doubts and they end up being effectively led to a outcome by agreement, within the framework of divorce by mutual consent. It seems to us that, for the most part, there should be no objection to the extension of this regime to de facto unions and that, therefore, the doubts that might arise concerning the judicialization or the removal of the possibility of judicial intervention in this respect should not merit particular consideration from the point of view of rejection of the proposed solution, especially since judicial intervention is always admitted when it is not possible to resolve this conflict in the context of the dissolution of the de facto union by mutual agreement, and, moreover, it already happens in relation to divorce situations. Therefore, it can always be said that the judicial intervention is kept for the circumstance in which it is effectively necessary, i.e. in situations where there is no agreement and in which the protection of the interests of that child requires, in fact, the judicial intervention. It seems to us that these precautions are taken and, from this point of view, we follow this initiative and we judge that it makes all the sense and has all the merit to be approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u122	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u123	I would like to conclude, Mr President, by referring only to one aspect which we believe should be considered in the field of expertise so that all these objectives can be effectively guarded and have to do with the issue of costs and the application of the Rules of Procedure, which in this case will not fail to be present. It is a matter which, with due consideration in the field of expertise, can be overcome, ensuring that the final outcome of the law may also correspond to this concern which many citizens have been putting in relation to these matters, not within the framework of de facto unions, but within the framework of mutual consent divorces. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u124	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, I would like to thank the various speeches and stress that it seems clear that we have the opportunity to do legislative work, in the continuation of the work that has been done in the previous legislature, in which — I must stress — diplomas have been approved by consensus, by unanimity of Parliament, if I am not attracted by the memory, and that there is a wide margin of agreement. It is, in fact, paradoxical that it is precisely in these relations where the degree of formality is lower than, in order to solve the problems of parental responsibility, the requirement is greater by requiring judicial intervention. As Mrs Vania Dias da Silva said recently, what is quite paradoxical is that, in these cases, we have had a situation of greater informality, that is, the main source of insecurity, both for children and for families. More than eventually we have many cases of people who go through a bureaucratic and judicial'sacra road', what happens is that, in most cases, there is simply no regulation of parental responsibilities and this is ultimately the worst of all solutions. We also have an opening to consider a review in terms of legislative technique, but it seems to us that this solution preserves and preserves the substantive solution within the Civil Code and cautions, where appropriate, in the Civil Registry Code, the adjective and formal amendments. Finally, the question which Mr João Oliveira has put on the costs is very relevant. In fact, whether in the context of emoluments, as regards these acts, in conservatories or, even in general, with regard to these procedures relating to parental responsibilities, it is necessary to check whether the proper weighting of the values in the presence is done and whether the costs are compatible with the priority that should be given to rapid, non-dramatic regulation and free of additional constraints, since families already face sufficient constraints when the end of a relationship is based on a family relationship. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u126	Mrs. Members, we move on to the third item on our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 158 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the sanctioning system by indexing the value of fines to the sales volume of the commercial area as regards labelling, origin of agri-food and lossful sales and by establishing a pigmeat price observatory ( CDS-PP ), 159 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a programme allowing the restructuring of the short-term credit of pig growers in the medium term, with two years of shortage and that producers of pig collection costs for animal carcasses ( SIRCA) for a period of six months should be reassessed at the end of that period ( CDS-PP ), 160 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government exempt producers, spouses and workers in the pigmeat sector from payment to social security for a period of six months ( CDS-PP ), 145 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government exempt the payment of social security contributions for raw cow's milk producers and pig meat producers ( PSD ), 176 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By replacing milk quotas in the European Union and protecting the line of Portuguese milk ( BE) and 208 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the promotion of measures to address the problems of pig farming ( CFP ). For an intervention, Mr Abel Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS-PP called for this debate on the question of pig farming in Portugal, given the importance of the sector and the serious crisis that is currently going through. But to talk about the crisis the sector is going through, we have to go back some time. Suiniculture in Portugal has been going through less good times and better periods. In 2013 the animal welfare measures decreed by the European Union led to a substantial reduction in the pig farming sector's production and to an improvement in prices at that time. In 2014 there was expectation that it would be an excellent year. However, the embargo on European products by Russia in January has frustrated these expectations. In 2015 prices began to fall and at the beginning of March there was an intervention of 56 000 tonnes of pigmeat from the market which, at the time, relieved a little of the price pressure, but then, with the withdrawal of these stored products, the price finally dropped substantially in the summer of last year. Also this summer, the news related to the WHO report on red meat and fillings further aggravated this situation, and in 3. the quarter of last year the prices decreased considerably and called into question production. Portugal has the lowest prices in the European Union and produces only 60 % of the capacity to consume pigmeat products. The sale of these products in Portugal at present has an injury of 25 % to 30 % in relation to its production costs, which, of course, is inconceivable. However, in maintaining this situation, we will have the inevitability of closing about 40 % of pig farms in Portugal, which could completely impede the activity not only of production but also of the processing industry of pig farming, losing about 200 000 jobs. In view of this, the CDS-PP has been presenting a set of initiatives to minimize the serious situation in pig farming in Portugal and to highlight the following: it recommends that the Government review the penalty framework of the indexer of the value of fines to the volume of sales of the commercial area, as regards labelling, the origin of the agri-foodstuff and the harmful sales and that it create an observatory of pigmeat prices for the various stages of the chain, allowing it to determine the composition of the price so as to be easier to identify the cases in which the sale with injury occurs, thus allowing what the CDS-PP implemented while it was in the Government, which was the PARCA ( Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain ), but in a more incisive way in the case of pig farming. On the other hand, it proposes the CDS-PP, through draft resolution No 159 / XIII, to promote a programme that allows the restructuring of short-term credit for pig growers so that there are two years of shortage and thus to withdraw some expenses with that credit, as well as exempt producers from the payment of the collection of dead animal carcasses through the Dead Animal Body Collection System in the Exploration (SIRCA) for a period of six months. Finally, it proposes the CDS-PP exemption for producers, spouses and workers in the pigmeat sector from payment to social security for a period of six months, and this exemption must be assessed at the end of the period. With these measures, we believe that the country is helping to avoid the closure, as I said, of about 40 % of the farms, which are at risk, and that there is an increase in unemployment which, according to our information, could reach about 200 000 jobs. We hope that these measures will be approved and implemented by the government, because we have not seen that the government has done a great deal of work in this area. The Minister of Agriculture has done virtually nothing to open up international markets and to seek alternatives for products of Portuguese origin, including milk and meat. As our President says, Dr. Assumption Cristas, is the total inertia, the Minister is not seen to stand up from his chair to open up international markets, whether in the milk sector or in the pig farming sector. An intense work, of ant, of great political and technical value is needed. It takes agile people to get out of their chair, to go with the producers, with the industrialists, with the entrepreneurs around the world to open markets. This is what we have unfortunately not seen on the part of the Minister for Agriculture of this Government. We don't see him leaving your comfort zone to actually respond to this crisis that is installed and has been going on for too long. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u128	To present draft resolution No 145 / XIII, Mrs Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I should like to introduce this draft resolution, which has entered this year's beginning in this Parliament. This project is intended to recommend that the Government provide milk producers and pig meat producers with payment of social security contributions for the three-month period. Our proposal also results from the extension of the initiative already taken by the previous Government which also, between September and November 2015, exempted these producers from contributions to social security. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that it is not the only way to deal with the very serious period that these two sectors are going through, but certainly helping to alleviate the treasures of these companies. Mrs. Members, the Socialist Party has not innovated, nor has it yet implemented the proposal to reduce 50 % of these contributions. The measure has not yet entered into force. The total reduction proposed by the PSD and the CDS-PP will be more advantageous for producers than the government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the dramatic crisis that these milk and pig sectors are living today demands of the Minister of Agriculture political force within the Government and also outside Portugal in the Community negotiations. We call on the Minister's initiative because we no longer have enough of his complaints about the European Commission. Recent ads are also many but doubtful. Regarding the announcement of the cow premium, is it the one that already exists of the 82 € per cow, negotiated during the last reform of the CAP (Common Agricultural Policy)? Then, in addition to announcing, Mr Minister does not speak the truth, because he says that the RDP (Rural Development Programme) has been blocked in the last two years and then criticizes the previous government, saying that the money has been exhausted for certain measures. You don't understand, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, during 2014 and until March of this year, 6700 applications were analysed, corresponding to more than 15% of the total programme. The lack of rigour in the declarations and information provided by this government leads us to demand credible and effective solutions for milk production and for pigs. Ladies and gentlemen. Member States, national measures are urgently needed: measures requiring the indication of origin in places visible to consumers, in this particular case of milk and meat; measures for greater transparency in the formation of prices along the chain; measures to keep the sector more attractive to investment and export. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must continue the legacy that the previous government has left. Back in these sectors so important for agriculture and for the country is to retreat into national sovereignty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u130	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country demands solutions for the crisis that is affecting the sectors of milk and pig farming. We continue to try to "shut the sun with the sieve" and not to realize that the crisis in our country is, above all, a European crisis is not to want to solve the problems. I understand that the right will do these cases line of attack against the government and propose things you never proposed when you were in government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u132	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u133	... but the fact is that we want to solve the problems of producers here, we do not want to reduce these issues to mere party struggle. We want to solve the problems and, for that, we need to face those at European level. It is unfortunate that the right, once again, is trying to "cover the sun with the sieve" and not want to see this issue. Therefore, we clearly say that there is an over-production crisis in Europe, there is a crisis that is caused or, better said, is effectively aggravated by the Russian embargo, by the decrease in consumption in China, by such conjunctural problems. But this overproduction crisis has a major origin: the end of the milk quotas in the European Union in terms of the milk sector and also the lack of regulation, the imposition of the law of the strongest in Europe on the production of pigmeat. So the Left Block, on this subject, defends priorities, hierarchy, does not mix everything, does not put everything in the same bag, because that is to confuse reality, it is to confuse producers, it is to confuse public opinion. The Left Block argues that at the next European Council, in the first place, the Portuguese Government must clearly state the need for the replacement of regulation in Europe in relation to the dairy sector and must also defend regulation measures in relation to pig farming. I understand that the right, which has this orthodoxy of market liberalization, has a huge difficulty in defending these positions, but, in fact, by not being defending them, is harming milk producers and pig farmers in Portugal and in the various countries of Europe. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u134	in this perspective, we also argue that measures must be influenced to better distribute price volatility in relation to these two sectors in the European markets. For this reason, in order to have this distribution, there must be understanding across the whole line, it is necessary for the government to take steps to promote this understanding and that distribution, because what has happened, what happened in the previous government, and still remains, is that it is always the producers... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u135	... to pay price volatility and crisis in these two sectors. We therefore encourage this Government, particularly the Minister for Agriculture in Europe, to defend the replacement of milk quotas and in our country's 'call to stone' the large distribution, which has produced bad commercial practices, supported precisely by the over-production crisis in Europe. I do not want to raise these two questions which the right refuses to do is, in fact, to do the same that has always been done in the previous government and which has resulted precisely in the crisis we are experiencing today. We must admit that this is the real situation. If there are problems today, many of them come from the past, as has been said here, particularly in the previous government. That is why we must look at this situation independently, because, firstly, the interests of the country are the interests of the milk and pig producers. To that end, it is necessary to say: the crisis is European, we have to solve this problem at this level, the crisis needs to be solved in Europe, we cannot allow the European Commission to want to throw the crisis on top of the nation states without solving the problem of regulation. [[Congratulations from BE and PS MP Julia Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u136	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Important productive sectors in our country live today very difficult situations that can lead to their extermination or, at least, to their reduction to levels little more than residual. Sectors that are victims of a situation where production costs are high, are even the highest in the European Union, and prices paid for production are low, are below production costs. For each kilogram of meat or for each litre of milk sold, producers are losing money and this situation does not last long. They are at risk of being reduced to insignificance sectors with productive capacity that allow, or have already allowed, the country's self-sufficiency levels in their products. And we are not talking about old or disorganized sectors; they are sectors that, in response to the challenge of transforming themselves to survive the process of European integration, are today the most organized and modern in Europe. They cannot, however, resist the liberalized market where they compete with countries with edafoclimatic conditions, support and others, with which it is impossible to compete. And this determines that the country is not entitled to productive sectors? It cannot be determined. For the advocates of liberalism that is the price we have to pay to integrate a market of thousands of consumers and what it represents as a business opportunity. Unfortunately, for the country and for the productive sectors, the liberalized market has been a great opportunity to enter foreign products into our country, for the closure of thousands of farms and without production we have not reached any market. The problems of the productive sectors are a good example of the limitations that the European Union and its rules place on the development of the country, its right to produce and its sovereignty, including food, value reduced by many, but essential for the future of the country. The situation reached by the productive sectors, jeopardizing the right of producers to work and to ensure fair income, which explains their recent struggle and movement, requires two types of actions. One of an immediate nature, which implies support to prevent sectors from disappearing. This has costs, but the disappearance of the country's productive capacity has even greater costs than the European Union, because of its responsibility and the scope of its problems, has to assume serious responsibilities in this process. A second structural nature, which guarantees the right of the country to produce, inter alia, by means of regulatory instruments, both production and marketing, and by means of fair payments to production, which are, from the outset, better distribution of value along the chain, preventing the large distribution from taking about three quarters of value. One of these sectors is pig farming, which sells more than 30 % below the cost of production. This sector has already had self-sufficient levels of 90 % and is now just over 60 %, showing that unfortunately the problem is not today, as they want to make believe, in particular the parties that supported the previous PSD/CDS government, which decided not to take action, nor when the European Union has made available a few EUR 4 million. It is that the problem is not now and the previous government has ignored it, with many silences to mix.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u138	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u139	It is to address the problems of the pigmeat production sector that the CFP has presented one of the draft resolutions that we are discussing today. in it it is recommended to strengthen the mechanisms of interprofessional discussion, with the fulfilment of the commitments undertaken there. It is proposed to intervene in the marketing, in particular the large distribution, to solve problems such as labelling, dumping, preferential sales of Portuguese meat and the distribution of value. It is also proposed to set up credit restructuring mechanisms for holdings, to seek new markets and to strengthen traditional markets, to intervene in the European Union in defining mechanisms to enable Portugal to defend its production against the entry of foreign products, to reduce production costs, in animal feed and energy; to stimulate national production consumption, in particular in public canteens. The right of a country to its food sovereignty is inalienable and therefore we cannot allow production in Portugal to be amputated by important and fundamental sectors. The CFP, as always, is making the proposal here and to follow up on the recommendations to ensure that right. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u140	For an intervention, Mrs Júlia Rodrigues of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I would like to thank the six draft resolutions for their debate. The theme of agriculture, in particular the livestock sector, is of the greatest importance in Portugal, both because of employability, and because of the socio-economic contribution it represents also in many regions of the country. I would also like to acknowledge the commitment of the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture to support the pig and milk sectors, which, in some ways, already responds to the recommendations of the CDS-PP and the PSD which are therefore considered to be extemporaneous. In the pig husbandry sector, according to data from the Portuguese Federation of Associations of Pig husbandry farmers, it is estimated that there are about 4000 producers and 14 000 farms, representing an annual volume of 600 million euros and directly employs 200 000 workers. They are, I repeat, data from the Portuguese Federation of Associations of Suinicultores. It should also be recalled that national production can only meet 65% of the consumption needs of Portuguese, in such a debate, it is worth noting that the previous government has done nothing to minimize the impact of the various international circumstances,... [[PSD member Protests António Ventura.]] ... penaltyrs for these sectors, as is the case with the Russian embargo and the cessation of exports to Angola. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It has also been confirmed that the Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain, the PARCA ( Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain ) has failed to achieve the objectives to which it was proposed, namely to ensure the protection of trade relations and to mitigate global impacts, as well as to overcome the constraints existing in the value chain of the pig and milk sectors. The previous government has emerged, the crisis has remained in the sector; in contrast, the current government is meeting systematically with the sectors of production, industry and distribution, through the newly created Office of Crisis, in an ongoing effort to close the search for solutions, as has already been recognized by the sectors. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the milk sector is also of great socio-economic importance to the country, contributing decisively to territorial and social cohesion. This sector represents 7000 farms, 100 000 jobs and generates a wealth of around EUR 2000 million. The milk sector has achieved a good level of organisation over the years. He managed to modernize, innovate and be prepared to face new challenges. It is regrettable that in this sector too the previous government has been completely removed from a situation that had been evolving for more than a year and a half. He only reacted at the end of the legislature and had no consequences. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In September, it announced the creation of the Milk Sector Support Action Plan, after 25 % of the milk price in Portugal had been broken. It should also be noted that the former Executive did not allow the parliamentary majority of the time, PSD and CDS, to approve a draft resolution of the Socialist Party, presented six months before the announcement of the aforementioned Action Plan. This draft resolution recommended some measures that have finally been included in this document, such as the creation of a line of credit. It is obvious that, with the delay in making the decision to support the sector by the previous Government, they lost vital months and months to the sector. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the current Government is implementing concrete measures to support the milk and pig farming sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u142	What are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u143	There is a political will to promote national production and to strengthen the consumption of national products, making consumers aware of the purchase of Portuguese products. On the other hand, the Minister of Agriculture has urged Brussels to rapidly operationalise support for farmers. The measures to be implemented which consolidate a strategy to support the pig and milk sectors in Portugal are the following: new labelling rules, which will force industry and distribution to identify the origin of pigmeat and milk that are sold to consumers; the reduction of 50% in social security contributions between April and December for all farmers in the pig and milk sector as well as for all its workers. This measure will alleviate the fixed costs of producers in a large financial effort for the State. Within the framework of State support, a EUR 20 million credit line is being set up to help producers with two components: one to help in the treasury and another to help in the indebtedness. A measure consisting of the award of a cow premium shall be applied. Large efforts are being made to open up new markets in order to enhance the internationalisation of sectors also by the channels of flow opened by large distribution in 23 markets. As regards the measures of the European Commission, they focus on : compensation for the private storage of pigmeat ; the establishment of a meat market observatory to monitor the evolution of the price of beef and pigmeat, similar to what was created for milk when the production quota scheme was completed; the opening up of the possibility of Member States to adopt national measures to achieve the reduction of production and support may be financed by the Community budget. In the Council of Ministers for Agriculture, the Portuguese Minister has put forward proposals which have been welcomed and negotiated with other Member States, with a view to the approval of the national positions, which are in defence of these sectors. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the problems of the pig and milk sectors are at the heart of the concerns of the Socialist Party and the Government. Working together with producers and representative organisations, which have worked hard to find immediate solutions to old problems, will certainly support the two sectors to overcome the dramatic situation they have experienced in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u144	Mr António Ventura, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: No, Mr President, no, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot believe that on such an important issue as this the government is not here to say what action it will take. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u146	We cannot believe that on such an issue as this important for the economy of Portugal, the Government is not present to say in this House, before farmers, in front of all Portuguese, what it will do. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The crisis persists and is therefore quite a demonstration of the importance that this government attaches to these sectors. This is what is patented here and this is the first political note.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u147	And what are your proposals? Oh, my God! We want proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u148	But since the government did not want to be here, we hoped that the parties that are ruling — the Left Block, the PCP and the PS — could say what the measures are. Update the measures. What measures are they going to implement? They had the opportunity here to say what measures they are. But no. What they thought was the following: "Let's see if this topic goes unnoticed and does not remain in the press, because we have nothing to say". And this is the second political note. However, we also hoped that today both the PS and the Left Block, both the PCP, which are ruling, and the government, which is not present, would say what measures they sent to Brussels. We must not forget that in February several measures were requested by the European Commission to Portugal and we have asked the Government for the package of measures. Well, from March 13 to today, we do not know what measures have been sent to Brussels and to the Members. Members should be outraged by the lack of information in this House. No, Mr President, in democracy you cannot hide information from this House, it is too serious to hide information. Of two, one : or the government did indeed account and did not send anything to Brussels or, then, did not want to demonstrate and mirror its measures so that it would not then have a political loss, because that is indeed what happens. What is at stake is that this government realizes that it governs, and not govern cannot be a way of governing. No, Mr. President, not ruling cannot be a way of ruling! That inertia, this inability cannot continue. Even recently, the Minister of Agriculture said that the protests of farmers were a support to his position in Brussels. Well, it must look very badly, because if many of us in this House do not know what the measures are, if farmers do not know what the measures are, of course, that the protest can only be addressed to the Minister. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u149	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Some of the reasons for the current crisis of pig farming have already been enumerated here, one of the various that has cyclically reached the sector, namely the Russian embargo, the crisis in Angola and Venezuela and the excess production of pigs in Europe, along with the enrichment of some factors of production or its non-competitive cost. As far as milk is concerned, the draft resolution we are bringing back the quotas, Mr. PSD, the proposal we are bringing - I repeat - is that the quotas at European level are being returned,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u151	That's the first proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u152	... a proposal that, Mr. PSD, to be adopted, certainly with your vote, as we hope, will strengthen Portugal's voice in the European Union and could be an important support point for the negotiations which the Government will certainly lead, Mr. PSD. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] We cannot, however, emphasise the dependence of our country on the policies of the European Union and its close framework, which here, as in so many other matters, leaves us with little defence and to the mercy of the interests of economies and of much stronger powers. The current crisis of pig farming, as well as the crisis in the dairy sector, Mr. PSD, cannot help but arouse this reflection, with a strategic dimension in which the defence of the interests of our country is concerned and which will certainly not fail to be done at the right time. The CDS presents us here with a set of proposals. They are not new, the government has already announced most of them, if not exactly the same, at least very identical, in order to support the pig farmers. The Government has announced that it would require stronger control mechanisms on the labelling of pigmeat; that it will create a EUR 20 million credit line to address the cash and debt problems of dairy and pig farmers ; that supervision will be tightened for products entering Portugal, respecting the quality and health rules required by the European Union. We therefore demand firmness and creativity in the implementation of these measures, as in other countries. in these circumstances, the presentation now of most of the measures brought here by the CDS appears to us as inconsequential and therefore unnecessary. I therefore ask Mr Abel Baptista what is the reason for the CDS to bring us proposals for measures that are already being implemented or in progress. Is it simply to stay in the photograph, after they have not anticipated and solved the problems when they were still in the government? [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD appears to us with proposals that it did not present in the State budget, because at the time we all remember, it still lived in a state of denial, it still lived in mourning.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u153	Before the State Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u154	Now, after the recent Congress, it comes with a lot of claws, they've already explained it to us. Unfortunately, the PSD came with claws but comes late and with little sense of opportunity, because it is in the process of applying measures of the nature of those which it proposes now. In fact, a 50 % reduction in social security contributions has already been announced to help producers of pigmeat and milk. These measures are in force until the next Council of Ministers for Agriculture of the European Union, scheduled for June, which will discuss again the situation of the European crisis in these two sectors. Mrs. Members of the PSD, in fact there is one aspect in which your party can effectively clarify us. Confirming the generalized perception, the pig farmers told us here, in committee, that under the same price circumstances Portuguese consumers prefer national products. This means that the price is a factor that weighs decisively at the time of the decision to buy pork, and is therefore an important factor of differentiation. This is the case, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because most consumers have low resources and, of course, are forced to opt for the cheapest. For more consumers to choose pigmeat not depending on the price, but on the quality—and pigmeat produced in Portugal is at the best — it is necessary for Portuguese consumers to have greater purchasing power...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u155	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u156	...or, otherwise said, have more money in the wallet. But for that to happen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, the growing poverty policy of those working must be reversed, which was the alpha and the omega of the policy applied, without stumbling down by the previous government in which they pontificated the PSD and the CDS-PP. Simply, whenever measures are taken that increase the purchasing power of those who work, the PSD and the CDS protest against the reversals — a cursed word, by sight. The measures put forward by the Government can only be temporary. Indeed, the problem of producers is structural, as, moreover, it has already been said. It can only be overcome by European market regulation and by increasing the purchasing capacity of the population. So I ask: who, after all, and how does the PSD think Portuguese pig farmers should sell the meat they produce?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u157	He wants to finish. Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u158	I will finish, Mr. President. Should you sell it at crushed prices, entering a suicidal price competition? Yes or no? Or should you sell it at fair prices and to demanding consumers and with good purchasing power, for what must you reverse the measures that you took while you were government? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u159	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Carla Barros, of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by reminding the Member of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which is somewhat forgotten, which, although you have not won the elections, are government at the moment. And as they are government, it is also important to know that agriculture, milk producers and pig producers are also part of this government's folders. It should be noted that the PSD, unlike the Socialist Party, does not aim to see the solution go through dismantling these holdings and it is important to add that, unlike the Socialist Party, the PSD recognizes the importance of these two sectors not only for the national economy but also for the local economy and does not forget that around these farms there are a number of commercial establishments that maintain the level of employment. Employment, something else that you don't know and don't really want to have that priority. For all this, Mrs Deputy, like me, must know two fundamental features of these farms: they are family farms, farms that require a high volume of investment and those holdings that we close today we will never be able to recover again in the future. That is why, Mrs Deputy, the challenge is in your hands and we say that this government is able to guarantee national sovereignty in favour of these two sectors. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u162	For an intervention, Mrs Júlia Rodrigues of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD members are always talking about interrupting interventions and therefore do not listen to the political measures to be implemented by this government. [[PSD laughter.]] We are government, yes, Mrs. Carla Barros. The PS is, and will be, always with the producers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u164	It didn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u165	They're talking at work. Employment, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when they impoverished the country, took young people to emigration, relocated farms,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... have they implemented measures that have led to the impoverishment and exit of our young people and qualified technical frameworks, also in the agriculture sector and especially in livestock? Oh, my God! So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the former government that did nothing for the livestock sector, particularly in the pig and milk sectors. I draw the attention of all to a reflection on what is happening in the sectors. Our concern will always be with the producers and sectors of pig farming and milk. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u166	Mr Mauricio Marques of the Democratic Social Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a matter of priorities. Agriculture has been, and is, a priority for the PSD. It was through agriculture that we increased our exports, reduced our imports and created wealth. The importance we give to the sector is quite different from that given by the current government. As my colleague Mr Ventura asked, what were the concrete proposals advocated by the Minister for Agriculture in Brussels? So far, we don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u168	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u169	The draft resolution we are presenting is very ahead of the State budget, as it is January of this year. We care about the sector! Only half a year later, the Socialist Party and the parties that support this government agreed and began to worry about the sectors that are in crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u171	We're not proposing anything we haven't done in the past. We've done exactly what we're proposing right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u172	We're consistent!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u173	We do not partially exempt the contribution to social security, but we do propose the whole exemption because we know that at the moment the sector does not have the financial capacity to pay its contributions to social security. And when you need a certificate of regularisation of the contribution situation, you have to have your contributions paid and at the moment you have no chance to do so. This is a vital measure. I now call for coherence: either we are in favour of the European Union or we are not in favour of the European Union. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u174	All right, they say. Only there are some who do not defend our participation in the European Union, but they have come to argue that it is the European Union setting up quotas. It's a total incoherence! We have to be consistent! [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u175	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u176	I am very sorry, but we have to be consistent!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u177	You want to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u178	Mr President, I demand the same tolerance — 1 minute and 4 seconds — which you gave to the Member of your Parliamentary Group. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u179	I want to tell the President of the House and the Members. Members who are not on the right here, yes, the PSD is speaking with determination in favour of the sector which it defends, which is the agricultural sector. at this time, pig farming and milk producers are in distress and you have no respect for them and do not help them. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u180	Mr Mauricio Marques, as you have noticed, I have completely annulled your demand for time tolerance and therefore cannot complain. I did it with the greatest cordiality, as is obvious. Mr João Ramos, from the CFP, has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS: The CFP has never been in government, but without being in government, it has never stopped presenting proposals to defend these sectors. When you were in the government, you did not solve the problems and now present draft resolutions to solve them. [[Applause from the PCP and from the PS and BE Members.]] Mrs Carla Barros, do not tell us here that it is necessary to continue the legacy of the former Government because, in this regard, it was the legacy of the former Government that led to the destruction of the dairy sector and the pig farming sector. Therefore, do not ask us to follow that path, because we refuse to follow it. Mr António Ventura, from the PSD, if he had put so much energy into preparing this discussion as he put it in the intervention he did here, he would certainly have noticed that the draft resolutions discussed here present a set of proposals. The honourable Member has neither studied the draft resolutions nor heard what we have said here! [[PCP applause.]] For a party in which the only proposal already contained in the State budget, it is very little to come here to say that the others do not present any proposals. It's too little! [[Applause from the PCP and from the PS and BE Members.]] The PSD and the CDS have demonstrated once again that they are sidelined with the interests of the European Union. They are very available to defend the interests of the European Union, but not available to defend the interests of pig farmers and milk producers. You are not against our proposals, but against the productive sectors and examples of this — and you have always been on the side of the European Union — is the issue of milk quotas. On this issue, no Portuguese Minister for Agriculture voted against the instruments in Brussels, while other countries did so. What is needed is that the European Union lends the support it has to provide, what is needed is to face the rules of the European Union which prevent the country from producing milk.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u182	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u183	I will finish, Mr. President. Milk quotas are not a blessing from the European Union, they are a right that this country has. That is why we defend the milk quotas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u184	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u185	It is necessary — and I appeal to the PS and the Government — to put an end to the distribution. Despite the PARCA and the « parks » set up by the previous Government, the CFP presents a proposal for large distribution. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] This week, a 50 % discount campaign is in place in pigmeat, but the working group set up for this purpose has committed itself to something else. That is why it is necessary to put an end to the distribution, because the former Government has failed to resolve these issues. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u186	To close this item on the agenda, you have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is, in fact, curious to hear here say...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u188	Mrs. Member, I'm sorry I'm interrupting you. There was a lapse from the Bureau. Don't take it wrong, but before you speak, it is up to Mr Ascenso Simões to use the floor. I'm sorry. Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor, then, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will not withdraw time from the CDS, but I would like to tell this House that the subject we are discussing is more important than political-party wars. And the truth is that the subject we are debating was inherited, it was not created by this government. It is important to mention the four areas of intervention which the Government has been following. First area: negotiation with the European Ant Union to implement an action plan for the two sectors which are essential. Second area: lines of financing, already announced, which are also essential for maintaining holdings. Third area: aid in the promotion of Portuguese products and negotiation with distribution to find solutions for the flow.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u190	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u191	I will finish, Mr. President. Fourth point, which is very important and essential: finding a solution for the future. It is much more important to have an ant government action than to have a cigarette government action, like the one we've had in the past four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u192	Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, once again apologizing for the delay, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is indeed interesting to hear Mrs Júlia Rodrigues say that these initiatives are temporary or even Mr Pedro Soares say that we must have independence. Mrs. Members, the CDS-PP presented these draft resolutions on 15 February and on that date the Government had not yet submitted anything to the sector. It is also curious to say that the previous government has done nothing about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u194	What he did, he did wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u195	The previous government, in four and a half years of governance, did not have a single demonstration of the agricultural sector and this government, in four months of governance, had several manifestations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u196	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u197	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u198	In fact, the sector manifested itself exactly on the day of the takeover of the current government. [[PCP protests.]] Mrs. Members, the previous government published an action plan for milk in September last year, plan, which was discussed and negotiated with the sector. It is interesting to say, not only the left-wing parties which support the Government, like the Minister of Agriculture himself, that the previous government did nothing about the pig farming sector and that it only gave money to the milk sector, when one of the major organisations of the sector, which is the largest representative of the milk sector or the pig farming sector, did not appear at the time when 4, 5 million euros were given — in fact, it was 4, 8 million euros, since 0, 3 went to the Azores — to the milk sector. We have not heard any expressions by the pig sector criticizing the delivery of this money only to the milk sector. And why? Because at that time, it must be said, the price of pigmeat, with the official data that Portugal had, was above the European average, which is why it was not possible in Brussels to prove, because there was no data for this, that there were reasons to finance the pig sector, and that is why the funds were all channelled to milk. We have not actually heard the sector complain. That is why it is curious that you are now criticising. As far as milk quotas are concerned, it is necessary to do jus... In addition, Mr Minister, very recently, still this week, gave an interview in which he accused Dr. Paulo Portas of defending the end of milk quotas in 2001. Nothing more false! The PSD / CDS government in 2003 voted against. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In fact, the CAP reform (common agricultural policy) was adopted, but we voted against the end of the milk quotas! The end of milk quotas was decided in 2008 by whom? For Minister Jaime Silva, when Dr. Capoulas Santos was a Euro MP. It was Minister Jaime Silva, of the PS government, who finally brought the milk quotas to an end in soft landing. The former Government, by the hand of the former Minister of Assumption Cristas, defended whenever it should turn back on the decision of the end of the milk quotas. Therefore, it is not true what you say.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u200	Indeed, the measures are not known. However, we know a statement from the Minister's office that he realized that at the meeting of agricultural ministers he defended several measures, some of which were partially approved, such as the admission of the principle that production should be reduced in the pig farming sector. I don't get it, ladies. Members, as it is, in a country that produces only 60% of what it consumes, we will defend the reduction of production in the pig farming sector. What we want is to produce more and search for new markets. [[CDS-PP applause.]] What happened to the « China file », which, when the previous government came out of office, was only pending a signature? Why is it that it takes four months in relation to a process which was pending a simple signature and which was left in the folder for the Minister to treat? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we also spoke here about defending and promoting these sectors and the fact that Portuguese people want to consume Portuguese products on equal terms. One of the measures envisaged by the previous Government in the action plan to support the milk sector, but which also applies to the pig farming sector, was to revise the criteria of the Portugal Sou I programme rules and encourage producers and the large distribution to place the label of the Portugal Sou Eu brand.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u201	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u202	I will finish, Mr. President. This measure does not have any weight in financial terms, neither for the large distribution, nor for the producers of the Portugal Sou Eu programme. It is enough for the Administration, together with the sector, to define the rules so that Portuguese milk and Portuguese meat can have the Portugal I am so that the consumer, when arriving at the supermarket, can identify this seal and know that it is a Portuguese product. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u203	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u204	Ask the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u205	It is to make an inquiry to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u206	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u207	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau to distribute the Committee on Agriculture for the years 2002 and 2003 on the reform of the CAP, where, at those meetings, it was clearly debated with Minister Sevinate Pinto on the reduction and elimination of milk quotas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. As soon as this documentation reaches the seat, we shall immediately make the distribution. We are now entering point 4 of the agenda, which consists of the discussion of the projects of lein.o 16 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Set the maximum number of students per class ( The Greens ), 148 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establish measures to reduce the number of students per class aimed at improving the teaching-learning process ( CFP ) and 154 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish a maximum number of students by class and by teacher in pre-school education and in basic and secondary education(BE) and draft resolutions 213 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Promotion of school success through strategic and appropriate class size ( CDS-PP ), 216 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the progressive reduction in the number of students per class ( PS ) and 217 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Measures to promote school success ( BE ). To present the Green Bill, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens felt that it was urgent to place on the agenda of the parliamentary debate the issue of the size of classes in Portugal. What happens is that the previous government has increased the number of students per class with the aim of saving in the area of education and, essentially, in order to be able to proceed to more dismissals of teachers. Those who know the practical functioning of the classrooms on the ground are told that it was an absolutely wrong strategy and that this decision of the former Government has contributed to lower learning conditions in the classrooms. in this sense, Les Verdes presents a bill that reduces the maximum number of students per class, in order to ensure better learning conditions, of greater efficiency in the classroom, of more effective learning time, of greater participation of students in the classroom, among so many other questions that a smaller number of students per class can promote. For those who only have numbers in their heads and always consider that investment in education is an effective expense, then let us join this reasoning as to what could cost more this Green proposal and come to the conclusion that it would indeed have costs to bear. However, the question posed by the Greens is that in order to count these costs, it is necessary to deduce other questions. So we ask: how much does it cost to have teachers who spend a good part of the time in a classroom ordering in the classroom? How much does it cost to wear these teachers? How much does it cost not to continue more practical activities that can be done with fewer students, but that can not be done with more students? How much does it cost to demotivate students? Yes, you are, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to think about education from the point of view of its practical outcome and that is what the Greens are proposing to the Assembly of the Republic. The number of students per class the Greens propose to Parliament is what we consider to be ideal, but, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are prepared to discuss, together, possibly even a gradual application of the reduction in the number of students per class. We are aware that it has costs, we are aware that it is necessary to adapt schools and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are available for this debate. But we want the debate started and we are beginning to create all the conditions for schools to become more geared to better learning, and this is also, of course, in accordance with the thinking of the Greens, by reducing the number of students per class. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u210	To present the PCP bill, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party today presents a bill to reduce the number of students per class, considering that this measure, to be approved, will contribute strongly to the improvement of the quality of education and to the promotion of school success. Positions in view of the possibility of implementing this bill, some sectors shake the flag of concern and announce that, with the application of this measure, an exorbitant expenditure of EUR 750 million will be created per year, whose calculation formula is unknown, with the aim of blocking this project and seeking to maintain the course — wrong — followed by the political options of the previous government. It is not the economic criteria that should guide education policy. In education, the criteria that must prevail are the pedagogical criteria and the promotion of school success and the improvement of the teaching/learning process. Ladies and gentlemen. Members may present the numbers and studies that you want, but teachers, when you enter the classroom, know how many students have before you and the problems that an oversized class can generate, especially with students of the first teaching cycles, either in the lack of quality of the teaching/learning process, either in the difficulty of promoting school success, either in the impossibility of deepening content, or in the inability to provide individualized support to each student, or in the improbability of being able to manage, pedagogically and effectively, indiscipline within the classroom. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic confers on the State the responsibility to implement, and I quote: "the conditions for education, carried out through school and other educational means, contributes to equal opportunities, overcoming economic, social and cultural inequalities. Do not keep on seeking. ” However, the previous PSD/CDS government through various measures, including the increase in the number of students per class, on economic and ideological issues, has put together an entire public school dismantling strategy, devaluing it and impoverishing it. The CFP shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Basic Law of the Education System and in compliance with the principles contained in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, in particular Article 74 thereof. the, which refers to, and I quote, « Everyone has the right to education with the right to equal opportunities for access to school success», proposes the reduction of the number of students per class at the various levels of education, given the circumstances such as classes with students with special needs, artistic classes or vocational education. We also propose that the reduction in the number of students per class may be applied progressively, according to various criteria: first years of each school cycle, or classes consisting of students with special needs, or also classes with school failure above average. We have shown complete willingness to deepen the debate and discussion in particular. Finally, the CFP also states that in education what should be valued is always the quality of teaching, success and inclusion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u212	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the 4 minutes I have, I would like to discuss four ideas on this subject. Today we are discussing a series of legislative initiatives which, put in a very synthetic way, deal with the optimal size of our schools in Portugal. from the left arrive three bills pointing to different numbers of students by class, in no case giving knowledge of their foundation and what the estimated impacts in budgetary, pedagogical or logistical terms. Figures for all tastes and for various calendars: total reduction only once for the year in the case of the Greens; gradually up to 2022, in the case of the Block ; or— and at least it is to praise— in the case of the PCP, with the care to start in the beginning years of cycle to avoid breaking classes of continuity. But always unfounded figures and money exchanges, in which left-wing parties, without questioning their good intentions, make use of the prerogative not to be in government and therefore to be able to propose what cannot be executed. Secondly, I would like to note that we could have this discussion on an objective and substantiated basis, because also thanks to the CNE (National Council of Education) we have in hand a recent study published exactly on the organization of classes in our schools. From this study, I quote some conclusions: "there is room for a selective and gradual reduction in the number of students per class provided that there are corrections of situations that do not respect the minimum thresholds defined by law. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is more of a work on managing existing resources than the adoption of new universal regulations, which may lead to an increase in burdens which are difficult to bear for the Ministry of Education. If we put, as an alternative, the reduction in the number of students per class and greater investment in teacher training and in learning support practices, these latter measures have a greater impact than the mere reduction in the size of the classes and, knowing the diversity of the observable situations, it is more advisable to give schools the power to organize their classes according to their skills skills strategies. Having said this, and thirdly, I would like to tell you what the thinking of the CDS on this issue is. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no father or mother, like me, who does not want a personalized education for your child, with a teacher dedicated to your learning process, which is unique and specific. But as political decision-makers and from the point of view of public policy, the question here is: what is the point of balance as to the number of students per class, combining pedagogical gains with economic costs comportable to the education budget, in the present and in the future? Now, the question raised does not, nor can it, have a cross-sectional and unique answer for all classes of all schools. The great number of students per class depends on the constitution of the class itself: if there are students with repetitions, students with greater performance difficulties or students with special educational needs. It also depends on the cycle of teaching in which this class is inserted, on the disciplines concerned and on the school context. And this tells us not only the CNE, but several directors and teachers from several schools. in this regard, the CDS intends to recommend to the Government : That the compliance with the provisions currently provided for in the law, especially in the beginning years of cycle, be verified, corresponding to the decrease of students per class for which the NEC indicates there is margin. Let schools be given the possibility of organizing themselves with some flexibility in accordance with their specific circumstances, using other instruments to promote school success, such as co-adjugations, support classes, Turma Plus or Phoenix programmes, provided they define the criteria for their application. Let us start a broader reflection and perhaps more useful in the future on nine classroom models adapted to the competences of the 21st century, in which more and more it makes sense to speak in classes in the strict sense, but in other organizational formats by more dynamic and flexible groups, of course already underway in other countries and even in our schools. I end with a final note to say that it is up to the CDS — and that is what we are doing here — to contribute constructively and responsibly, proposing to the government what seems to be the best way for schools and students. But this is a government decision that we hope will take it in a responsible way from the present and future budgetary point of view. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u214	To present the PS draft resolution, you have the floor of Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fight against school failure and the promotion of quality education requires the mobilization of all educational agents, political decision makers, authorities and other entities. It is a pressing design, especially after four and a half years of continued de-investment in public school, whose cuts have caused serious impacts, to the obvious detriment of students, especially the poorest and most vulnerable. The public school suffered from the former executive a strong investment not only at the budgetary level but also at the level of the educational strategy, with the adoption of foolish and untied decisions of any educational and pedagogical function, of which the increase in the number of students per class, which deserved strong opposition here, in this Parliament, by trade unions, teachers and parents, was included in a strategy for the degradation of the public education system. The PS, in its Program, assumed that the improvement of the quality of education results from the progressive reduction in the number of students per class, the wager in curriculum enrichment, improvements and gains in equity through reduction of child poverty, as well as the construction of a full-time school where students must be an active and entire part of the same school. We therefore welcome the debate on initiatives on this subject by the Greens, the CFP and the BE by building up the success of school and equity as a design in which the PS clearly sees itself, while, of course, dissociating us from options that are not supported in any study or report on the pedagogical evaluation of the classes and whose impacts of varying order lack due weight. We also stress the fact that the CDS wanted to contribute with proposals, recognizing in this way, in its draft resolution, the need for, and I quote: "a broad and reasoned discussion on which models of pedagogical organization of schools, including types and classes of classes", in a clear recognition that the options passed in which it was involved, with regard to the increase in the number of students per class, were ultimately deprived of extended audcultation to the community and without a pedagogical basis, only in order to reduce burdens with the teaching system. Indeed, for the former Executive, the accounts were always of subtraction in public school, of division between the public and the private and of multiplication of inequalities, adding injustice and imbalances in educational resources and resources. The recent and interesting study of the NEC on School Organization : Classes reveals that there is evidence recognized by the theorists of education that, in the case of larger classes, more time is spent on classroom management and teachers have more difficulties in establishing and maintaining order. instead, in smaller size classes, less time is spent in combating indiscipline and room management, leaving, as is obvious, more effective time for the participation of students and greater depth of classes, benefiting from individual and more personalized follow-up. A profound inequality in the distribution of network resources is also evident in the study. It thus defends the PS in the draft resolution that we present today the gradual reduction in the number of students per class, considering that this reduction promotes a pedagogical improvement and consequently the success of school. We also believe that the reduction in the number of students should be progressively implemented and the model should be defined according to the specificities of the educational community and according to the pedagogical framework existing in the current education system. We defend a model that, safeguarding the conditions of school spaces and the pedagogical continuity of students, is based on the prior and necessary debate with the educational community. In this way we recommend to the Government that the reduction in the number of students per class may start in spring 2017 / 2018 and that the model to be implemented may already be poured into the State Budget for 2017. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are aware that the improvement of learning, the fight against failure and the prevention of school dropouts are not only due to the progressive reduction in the number of students per class but also to the reduction in the number of mixed classes of the 1. the cycle, through interdisciplinary and through the training, qualification and training of our teachers, which are fundamental to the education system, by valuing the role of the teacher and by promoting pedagogical practices that are increasingly innovative and consensual in the field of ICT (information and communication technologies) and educational software, for a school of the twenty-first century. In conclusion, the strengthening of autonomy in this area will always be our path, autonomy in school, in the defence of the quality of education and public school, « the one from which the sea of equal opportunities is seen ». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u216	Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is one of those happy cases—and perhaps they could be more frequent—in which common sense can be common sense. Everyone knows that the current maximum number of students per class makes the classes ingestible. Students know, parents know, teachers know, all know that larger classes generate more indiscipline, larger classes generate less attention to each of the students, larger classes generate exhaustion and stress in teachers, larger classes generate less time for teaching and learning because the teacher is too busy serving as a babysitter and trying to get students to calm down and pay attention to the classes. What does this mean? Major classes, less success at school. This is a consensus. The situation that exists today is absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable. There are teachers with so many classes and so many students who become strangers in a place from which they should be part, they become strangers in the classes to which they should belong. The truth is that there is no examination or individual student card on site no one who knows a student better than your teacher. And it's this ability that we're withdrawing teachers and classes. And it is not enough to move to the maximum number, it is also necessary to move to the minimum number, so that there are no 30 % of the primary schools that have classes above what is legally planned. This cannot happen, sometimes even with children with special educational needs, who should have a class with a reduction of students and do not, precisely because of the minimum number and then not have permission to create a new class in school. This is a consensus that the CDS cannot break. The CDS can't even come here to defend that 30 students are fine. He can't! Therefore, the foundation we lack, which has always been lacking, was the pedagogical foundation for the increase in the number of students per class. They can tell us that there is a basis: the millions, the deficit. As for this foundation, very well, but the pedagogical foundation is zero. I challenge PSD or CDS to present a pedagogical reason to increase the number of students per class. I can ask what accounts you did. How many millions were there in the paper to stand by and say that 28 doesn't give, 29 doesn't, it has to be 30 to get to that court? How many million? It is that the foundation was to lay off and cut off at the expense of our students, at the expense of our school. It is true that this is not a single measure to promote success in school. The measures proposed by the CDS here, and other parties as well, coadjuvations, pedagogical pairs, innovative school practices, innovative pedagogical methods, well, we also present them, but they do not change what is essential. This measure is not the only one, but it is essential, because with 30 students per class the classes are no more than lectures and this does not exist in college. Therefore, these pedagogical practices also mean that the number of students per class is reduced, because there is a truth that is indisputable: in a class with 30 students there is always, always, someone who stays behind and that is what we cannot allow. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u218	Mrs. Nilza de Sena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first note, which I would like to make very clear, is that the PSD is not against reducing the number of students per class, provided that the resources for this are safeguarded. However, there is a very objective question: we all know that the 2016 budget is an austerity budget and knowing that the CNE has quantified, for example, the Greens project, the PSD Parliamentary Group would like to know where are the most 750 million euros needed to reduce classes. Where is the budget strike to hire more 27 689 teachers and 570 operational assistants in the classroom? This is one of the issues that we cannot understand. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] But let us have a serious discussion on this subject, far from the communist fantasies, Mr Deputies. The reduction in the number of students per class must be associated, as has already been heard, with the clear objectives of promoting school success, with better performance, with the cancellation of failure. In Portugal, we know that there is no causal link between large classes and school performance, Mrs Joana Mortágua. If so, the regions or municipalities most impoverished, where there are fewer students, would have very good results, very small classes with excellent school results, above the average, and rates of retention or dropout also lower, and this, in fact, does not happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u220	This is surreal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u221	As is also evident in the study of the National Council of Education, it is not through a blind measure, an administrative measure to reduce the number of students we improve the performance of students or combat school failure. It is through other tools and many of them, such as the incentive to study, such as the guarantee that they are the best teachers within the educational system, such as the management of the nearest classes, are examples of what must be done. In addition, it is worth remembering that the average of students per class in Portugal is exactly the same as the average of students per class in OECD, i.e. in Portugal it is 21 students and in OECD it is 21, 3%. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not have the discussion next door. The PSD presented two concrete proposals on this subject, precisely in the project on the qualification of Portuguese, and I would like to highlight the proposal to reduce mixed classes in 1. the cycle, accompanying also Mrs Susana Amador. Now, we know that the school population has declined dramatically in recent years, that perhaps these mixed groups are pernicious in what is learning and, therefore, it is here that we want to "beat" and work together. This is the discussion; the other seems to us that it is folklore. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u222	Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, we came here to ask for an argument that it was pedagogical and they gave us back the millions again. We know that these measures have a budgetary impact and I will give new information to the right banks: education has a budgetary impact, we need to invest, we need to spend money! Do you know what happens when education no longer has a budgetary impact? It is that education becomes only for the rich because the poor no longer have the right to it. [[All right! That's the one!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u224	That is why it needs to have budgetary impact. But let me also add something about the average of students per class in Europe and Portugal. A class in the district where Mrs. Deputy is milk, Beja, may have 15 students; a class in the district where I am elected, Setúbal, for example, in Almada, may have 30 students. Do you know what the average is? The average is 23 students, but this does not mean that the Beja class has 23 students or that the Almada class has the same 23 students. Almada’s class continues to have 30 students and Beja’s class continues to have 15 students! Therefore, the average argument is not even an argument for this debate and, above all, it does not solve the problem of overcrowding classes, where the right to equal education of our students is being impaired. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u225	You now have the floor, also for a second speech, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, about the concerns she showed about the exact number that was correct educationally correct to form a class, which it is clear that this number has to be seen at every moment and the CFP safeguards this because, as you have noticed, we have proposed several numbers according to the type of class, according to the special needs, according to the failure of the previous year, which is also one of the criteria that is foreseen. Regarding the study that the CNE did, I would say that it is only a study, but, if you notice, in this study there are some who logically argue that the reduction in the number of students per class would benefit students in various aspects, particularly in the quality of learning.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u227	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u228	I would also like to say that, from this debate, we can see that this measure will advance against the will of the CDS and PSD but will be in favour of the students. That is our conclusion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u229	Mrs Nilza de Sena has about a second; I assume that the honourable Member demands that she be given tolerance equal to that given to the other speakers and I cordially do so. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u230	Mr President, thank you very much for your generosity. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to clarify Mrs Joana Mortágua, I would say that only 5 % of the classes is that she has a maximum load of students. It is not worth coming here with the accounts of Beja or Almada because the honourable Member knows that all the classes in these conditions result from concrete proposals from the educational councils of schools and are authorized by DGE. You will also certainly know that class-sharing requests are often analyzed and these proposals, overwhelmingly, are accepted, which means that what you say is not true. In conclusion, it is also worth noting that the proposal for the composition of classes and distribution of teaching work is the exclusive competence of schools. Don't forget this! Therefore, bringing so much demagogy to the debate is not enough to be right, Mrs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u231	To close this item on the agenda, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that bringing demagogy to the debate is to be demanding now things that in the past did not demand because they did not want to. I have never heard the members of the CDS and PSD ask for studies so that the Ministry of Education could justify why the number of students per class increased. I've never heard of it! I have never heard of the need to take into account the specifics of schools. I've never heard you talk about it! Why? Because this measure was part of your very clear goal: to fire teachers and save in education. However, reversing the measure means, in fact, having to hire more teachers, having to prepare the classrooms for the deployment of classes, let us say, preparing the conditions of schools for this purpose. In fact, it costs money. But, look at that, ladies. Members, what I said in the first speech was that what the Greens here are presenting is what we take as ideal, and the CNE, even without very objective criteria, says that it estimates that this ideal would cost 750 million euros. I repeat: the ideal! Now, if we do it gradually and gradually, especially starting at the beginnings of the cycle, it is worth the investment, it is worth the investment to have better conditions and greater learning success, to have less wear of teachers and better conditions of participation of students. It is worth reversing the disaster that was the policy of CDS and PSD on education. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u233	That's it and go to the election!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u234	Mrs. Members, we have entered the penultimate item on today's agenda, with the appreciation of draft resolutions Nos 163 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Reposition of legality in the allocation of special education allowance ( BE), 182 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures the allocation of special education allowance and ensures clinical support for all children and young people with disabilities ( PCP ) and 219 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reform of the allocation of special education allowance ( PS ). For an intervention, you have the floor, first of all, Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block brings here a project that, for us at the moment, is of the greatest importance. This is about correcting a situation that is recognized as illegal and has led many children with disabilities to lose access to special education. The special education allowance was a social security benefit granted to families with disabled children before a medical declaration or prescription. It was a subsidy for specialized support that the school does not have the ability to give. And, in fact, disability may not directly affect the ability of these children to learn and, therefore, may not be directly linked to difficulties of pedagogical and curricular integration or learning, but have to do with the development of other capacities, such as motors and emotional ones, which may require other types of therapies. In 2013 and 2014, the Social Security Institute, without making any amendments to the law that provided for this allowance, signed a protocol with the Directorate-General for School Establishments ( DGE ) which completely changed the rules for the allocation of the allowance, setting these children in Decree-Law No. 3 / 2008, which provides for the special educational needs of schools, when it was not here that they were legislatively framed. This led the medical prescription to become zero in the allocation of this allowance and to be schools to have the reference responsibility, without having the worry to know whether they had multidisciplinary teams or not to do so. We can discuss this, but there is one thing that cannot be discussed: from that time on, the objections to the requests of children who had previously had access to the allowance and had ceased to have, so much so that they have already gone to court. The PSD Member may say no, but I will present to him cases, name, and there he will stop saying no, until the courts have come to be right to these families. But the honourable Member can also say that it is not the decision of the courts. What happened was one of two things: either the families were in debt because they still wanted their children to have access to this support, or the children, in fact, were left without access to the allowance and without support. The Left Block drew attention to this many times and said until this law was not perfect, it needed to improve it, that it was necessary to invest in the capacity of schools and other public services to respond to the problems of these children, but the government never wanted to hear what the Left Block, families and professionals had to say. The Government has denied these children the right to therapeutic support that they had and that they needed and harmed — we will see whether, in some cases, not irremediablely — their development and their development capacity in all aspects of life. Therefore, from this debate, what is expected, what families expect—is not what the Left Block expects, what families expect—are two things: that the protocol is revoked, so that these children can have the support that is due to them and to which they are entitled, and that the PSD and CDS apologize for what they have done,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u236	...they apologize for taking these children away a right that was yours and harming their development and their life. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u237	You now have the floor to Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today to discuss initiatives on special education grant, which is a social benefit allocated by the Social Security Institute and which is intended to compensate families for the specific support charges for children and young people up to 24 years of age with disabilities and/or special needs. This support is granted to children and young people who are attending special education establishments and who need individualized support, through proven permanent reduction of physical, motor, organic, sensory or intellectual capacity, certified by a specialist doctor. Now, in October 2013, the PSD / CDS government then published a collaboration protocol between the Social Security Institute and the DGE, for the purpose of awarding and validation of this grant, meaning that the allocation of this benefit became conditional on the declarations coming from schools and referring to signage within the framework of Decree-Law No 3 / 2008 and to the existence of an individual educational programme. The granting of this support was thus no longer dependent on the medical declaration of professionals with qualifications and competence for this purpose. It is important to distinguish here, in fact, those that are pedagogical needs of clinical needs, because the special education allowance is intended to compensate for the charges with clinical problems of children and young people, diagnosed by a specialist doctor, and Decree-Law No 3/2008 only responds to pedagogical needs in the specific context of the teaching and learning process in school context. The truth is that the changes made led to the loss and delay in the allocation of special education grant, which led to the interruption of therapies with consequent serious clinical setbacks, and meant profound disorders for the families of these children and young people, who, in fact, echoed in this Assembly of the Republic, especially in a petition discussed here in the past legislature. It is also important to remember here that the Secretary of State at that time, the PSD, and the Minister at that time of the CDS, guaranteed that they would solve this problem, but the truth is that nothing, absolutely nothing, has done.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u239	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u240	Not only have they created the problem as, in an unacceptable way, they have abandoned these children and young people and have ignored the anxieties of their families. They ran into the Basic Law and international conventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u241	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u242	What the PSD and CDS wanted, yes, was to reduce the support provided to children and young people with disabilities. That is why they are directly and indirectly responsible for the discrimination of thousands of children and young people. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The political options of recent years, especially the path chosen by the PSD/CDS government, have made impoverishment worse, have exacerbated poverty and social exclusion in the lives of the majority of the Portuguese people and, in a particularly serious way, in the lives of children, young people, adults and elderly people with disabilities and their families. With the initiative presented by the CFP today, we intend to give a response to the problem of these children and young people and their families, and to restore justice in the allocation of the special education grant, ensuring compliance with the rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u243	Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the initiative of the Block of the Left, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Socialist Party, the members sitting in the Assembly of the Republic today again discuss the issue of the defence and protection of persons with disabilities, which, despite being safeguarded by the United Nations Convention of 13 December 2006, continues to raise concerns and the need for legislative improvement. As Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges, from the PSD bench, mentioned yesterday, is a matter that requires respect and dignity in her reflection. in this sense, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party presents draft resolution No 219 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Reform of the allocation of the special education grant, with the aim of reformulating the allocation of the special education grant, since the legal diplomas in force which regulate this matter reveal a set of difficulties in its application that must be removed in order to achieve a more effective response in support of children and young people with disabilities who do not need to attend appropriate establishments. This legislative adequacy should consider the prior auscultation of all entities representing the sectors concerned, with a view to clarifying conceptual discrepancies and harmonizing concepts and evaluations. in order to improve and expedite the allocation of the special education grant, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group can no longer recommend to the Government the re-evaluation of the collaboration protocol concluded by the previous Government, on 22 October 2013, with the Institute for Social Security and the Directorate-General for School Establishments. This protocol was aimed at defining the circuits and procedures to be observed among the various institutions involved in the allocation of special education grant. However, not only did he solve the constraints that existed as he still introduced additional difficulties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u246	... depending on the allocation of the benefit of signaling and evaluation of children and young people with special educational needs by Decree-Law No 3 / 2008, with the amendments introduced by Law No 21 / 2008 of 12 May 2008, not considering the involvement of health professionals through certification and their reports. The protocol did not comply with the rules contained in Regulation Decree No. 14/81, where it was anticipated that certification would be carried out by specialists who would determine the needs of children or young people. A note on the protocol conferring responsibility, in the second clause, in the evaluation of children up to six years of age, to local intervention teams (ELIs), whose competence is not part of it. The protocol, by distancing itself from the law, came to restrict the scope of allocation of the allowance, at the same time that gave rise to the increase of objections in its allocation, as in December 2014 was widely discussed in this Plenary, at the time of the assessment of petition No 331/ XII ( 3 ). ( a). this results in the reduction of support for children and young people with special educational needs, the same happens in the age group from 6 to 18. The Socialist Party has three main objectives in this area: to improve social protection, to remove children and young people with disabilities from poverty situations and to allow them, from obtaining more qualifications, to have a more independent and autonomous life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u247	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u248	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we must say that these matters give the PSD the greatest concern. As my colleague, Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges said yesterday, are sensitive and sensitive matters that require the effort necessary to give a thorough and effective response to those who are in a situation of special vulnerability...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u249	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u250	... and it needs this support and this allowance to have a decent life, a more qualified life and with greater autonomy. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the main focus of the PSD is always to ensure effective support to those who need it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u251	What a hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u252	Secondly, it is also true that the facts are true. It is not true that there have been any amendments to the rules on the granting of the special education grant, as they wish to mistakenly believe. Nor is it true that the statement attesting to the disability has ceased to be passed by a specialist doctor. That's not true, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Anyone who has the competence to witness disability and their special education needs is and continues to be a specialist doctor. There's no other technician who can do it. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u253	What the previous government did, and well, it was only to replicate and establish procedures and circuits—and you know that well! — procedures and circuits which have been used for several years in the Lisbon region for the award of the subsidy. What we've done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — you know that! — it was to generalize and uniformize these procedures and circuits throughout the country, ensuring the justice and fairness that they must always preside over in the allocation of these benefits. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u254	Our concern has been, and will continue to be, to ensure that those who need this support can benefit from it. And, as you know - in fact, you don't know, you never knew, and I fear that soon we will re-check it - the resources are not unlimited. Resources are not unlimited and we only introduce more rigour and transparency, so as to ensure always support to those who really need it. This is what moves us. I just wanted to say here that the PSD is and will always be available to assess the impact of these measures that we have initiated and, if necessary, will improve them. Even more in these matters, you can count on us! We will always be available to improve and be more efficient, but we will never give up on being strict. And I repeat again, we have done no more than introduce rigor and transparency, in real articulation with health, education and social security. Procedures were replicated, greater rigour was introduced in the allocation of the allowance, the practice of paying this allowance directly to the families was instituted instead of paying the institutions. And in this particular, the Left Block has to decide, because it sometimes defends that these subsidies have to be paid to people, who need money, and sometimes defends that they must be paid to institutions. You have to make up your mind, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u255	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u256	I will finish, Mr. President. And, above all, we promote, and this has been asked several times before, a greater link between health, which identifies, social security, which pays, and education, that accompanies. That's what we did. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u257	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are currently debating three draft resolutions on the protocol between social security and the Directorate-General for School Establishments which aims to allocate the special education grant. It should be stressed that the rules are exactly the same, which improved was its operationalization. The protocol is 2013, but it should be remembered that what this protocol does is to extend to the whole country the model that has worked successfully in the Lisbon and Tejo Valley area since 1999.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u259	Mal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u260	I mean, since the time of the PS. Therefore, the measures that were working well throughout the country were extended. For us, the rules on grant allocation are based on the needs of the child and the young person with permanent disabilities. Therefore, it is important that there is a model of cross-sectional collaboration between health, social security and the Ministry of Education, which ensures, firstly, the quality of the therapy services provided and, secondly, the transparency in the destination and the objective of this support. For us, the recipients of this support are the families, where the role of the school in this follow-up is fundamental, are not the clinics providing these services. Now, Left Block and PCP, without more, what they want is to put an end to this protocol. What are you defending? The disarticulation between these ministries, that is, between health, education and social security? Do you defend that there is no control over the quality of therapy services? Did you know that before it was not even required that the therapist be registered in the Health Regulatory Entity and that with this protocol it became? They create an emptiness that harms children and young people in an effort to reverse everything. Left Block and PCP undo without thinking about who needs this support with quality, no design, no solutions. That's what Left Block and PCP do here. On the other hand, the PS, in its draft resolution, makes an assessment in its recitals and then recommends that the associations be heard and the situation be reassessed. What are we staying on? They've already evaluated and now they want to reassess? We are always available to reassess, but I am sorry that you already have a prejudice to this reassessment. It is that despite the criticisms of the PS, the PCP and the BE of this protocol, your Government has budgeted for 2016 EUR 23 million for this subsidy. Do you know how much it was budgeted in 2015? EUR 23 million, exactly! In other words, these are the same values that are at stake here, so the only conclusion we can draw is that they do not want to guarantee either quality or transparency in these support. This is because attributing exactly the same money with less rigour is harming those who need the most, the most fragile. That's what your demagogy is about, my lords! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u261	For a new intervention, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say that when I heard the beginning and the end of Mrs Sandra Pereira's speech, I was delighted. Let's sign up! They are available to effectively improve the project for those who need this House to introduce these same changes. There we agree but then this answer also covers Mr Carlos Monteiro, I must say that the number of objections that have happened speaks for you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u263	Exactly! That's making up an excuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u264	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear: it will not be as it is. This is a nod point. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u265	The Socialist Party, with its responsibility, guarantees this.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u266	The money is the same, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u267	When Mrs. Deputy...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u268	If the money is the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u269	Wait a minute! When Mrs Sandra Pereira says that resources are not infinite, it is true, but there are things that have to be set as priorities and care for people with disabilities is clearly a left-wing priority in Portugal. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] We're talking... [[CDS-PP protests.]] Don't stand up...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u270	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u271	Tolerance, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u272	I won't even comment!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u273	I'm done, Mr. President. We are talking about human dignity and that overlaps with all other issues. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u274	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by saying, after the speeches of the Member of the CDS-PP and of the Member of the PSD, that what is quite clear is that what you did, in fact, in 2013 with this protocol, was to find an instrument that made a cut that you did not want to take as such.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u276	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u277	It was indeed what happened: many children and young people were cut off, and many of these payments were even delayed for a long time. [[PSD protests.]] What matters right now is to find a solution that rests this which is a right of these children and young people, of these families, of the most vulnerable people we have in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u278	Value is the same! It's exactly the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u279	What is needed is to find a solution that rests with this right, a right that you have taken. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I would also like to tell the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP who expressed concern about dignity in the treatment of this situation that was important, yes, that they had expressed this concern about dignity when we discussed here, at the last legislative session, a PCP project on this same subject that had been the subject of this right and that you had fallen, denying fundamental rights to these children and young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u280	Don't be demagogic!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u281	The CFP again presents an initiative that responds to these needs of these children and young people and restores justice in the allocation of the special education grant. This is the contribution we are making here for the resolution of this problem and for the replacement of fundamental rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u282	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: True, you have created circuits, passages, paths, but only to give a scholarship: at the door that was knocking on the faces of the families who needed this support for their children. We ask for arguments and see what has been returned to us: the PSD returns to the same argument as always, which it used in students by class and will use again, that is, it is expensive, which is budget, which is deficit. Everything that is budgetary will always be worth more than any right of these children. But the CDS-PP argument is even more unbelievable. He says he cut the allowance to these children for a matter of rigour and transparency. [[CDS-PP protests.]] That is, what doctors have diagnosed and what courts have recognized is the CDS-PP that comes to say it's not necessary. The CDS-PP believes that it is above a medical diagnosis of the right and need of these children to receive a subsidy. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] So, two, one, Mr. Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP: either they don't know anything they're talking about or they're trying to confuse people on purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u284	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u285	That they do not know what they are talking about is possible, because during these years they have never been worthy to receive, hear or respond to these families. Never! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] So it's normal they don't know what they're talking about, because they never wanted to hear them. But if they did it deliberately, then it is much more serious and humility was the only thing that would make you better these people's lives. And we appreciate the PSD's availability to work on this, because everyone is needed to recover...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u286	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u287	Of course, I'm done, Mr. President. All are necessary to recover and return to these children a right they should always have had. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u288	Mrs. Members, we have reached the last point on our agenda, which consists of the presentation of draft resolution No 188 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Adoption by the Assembly of the Republic of the European initiatives considered as priority for the purpose of scrutiny under the European Commission's 2016 (CAE) Work Programme. Mrs Regina Bastos, President of the Parliamentary Committee on European Affairs, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The work programme of the European Commission, which has the motto « We cannot continue as a matter of course », is the par excellence of the definition of European policy priorities for 2016 that our Parliament is following, not only in terms of legislation but also in terms of politics. European institutions and citizens are aware that Europe is going through a unique moment: the economic-financial crisis and sovereign debts are now the migration crisis and refugees and the social crisis persists. This, in addition to the challenges of climate change and transnational terrorism, is threats that call into question our way of life and to be in the world, present and future. of the European Commission's Work Programme we expect no less than effective and effective measures. These are the measures proposed by the European Commission for this year and which have been selected by the relevant Parliamentary Committees and by the Regional Legislative Assemblys of the Azores and Madeira, which form part of the draft resolution presented today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: According to the annual report on relations between the European Commission and the national parliaments, our Assembly of the Republic is still one of the 40 parliamentary chambers, which issues the largest number of opinions. This, however, has not always corresponded to the desirable quality. That is why it should be our ambition to improve the performance of our Parliament. in this sense, the Committee on European Affairs, to which I chair, after a thorough analysis and reflection work, has already approved a new methodology for the scrutiny of European initiatives. This work was based on the analysis and reflection of the procedures in force, clearly identified the aspects to be changed and pointed out the improvements to be made to improve the work of this Parliament in monitoring European affairs in general, and in the European decision-making process in particular. The new methodology provides for the establishment of a working group, composed of members of each parliamentary group, which has no responsibility to pre-select European initiatives to undergo scrutiny, in order to incorporate the political signaling of parliamentary groups, without prejudice to always leaving the ability to examine the unselected initiatives. It is our intention to disseminate this new methodology very soon before its entry into force. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are convinced that both the European Commission's 2016 Work Programme, with the measures envisaged and ranging from the European banking deposit insurance system to the improvement of migration management, through the social rights pillar, or the implementation of the new methodology for monitoring these priorities by our regional committees and assemblies, will be a major contribution to strengthening the European project. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-07.u290	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of today's work. Tomorrow we will meet at 10 a.m. with the following agenda: discussion of draft resolutions 155 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Classification and protection scheme for shops and entities with historical and cultural interest ( PS ) and 220 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Classification and valuation of historical stores ( The Greens ). The discussion of the projects of lein.o 152 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Deputies and the Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and High Public Charges ( BE ), 153 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amending the Statute of Members by making the system of exclusivity of Members compulsory to the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ), 141 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Tenth amendment to the Statute of Members ( CFP ), 142 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime of incompatibilities and impediments of holders of political positions and high public positions ( Eighth amendment to Law No 64 / 93 of 26 August ( PCP ) and 150 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the rules for transparency and rigour in the exercise of political and high public positions and control over unjustified capital increases ( PS ), in general, and draft resolution No 215 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee for the strengthening of transparency in the exercise of public functions ( PS ). The third point of our agenda is the discussion of Parliamentary appraisal No 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Decree-Law No 11 / 2016 of 8 March, which establishes an exceptional measure of support for employment by reducing the employer's contribution rate by 0, 75 percentage points in respect of contributions relating to remuneration due in February 2016 to January 2017. Then, discuss-CL-laws No 124 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Data Sharing Legal Regime ( PCP ) and 151 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Ensures the exercise of the rights of users as enshrined in the Code of Copyright and Related Rights ( BE ). The vote will take place at the end of the debate and there will also be an election to the National Education Council. I wish everyone and everyone a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 54 minutes.]]
