ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Before we begin the agenda, which is a marking of the Left Block, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary Emilia Santos to proceed with the reading of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 271 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Revokes the tip of teaching Portuguese abroad and establishes the free of charge of school textbooks in EPE courses ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 of 11 August 2006 ) ( BE ), which falls to 2. the Commission, with connection to 8.a, and 272 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the extraordinary process of restoration of ferries extinct by Law No 11 -A / 2013 of 28 January ( BE ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 390 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — by maintaining the tax exemption for the consumption of small producers ( PCP ), which is lower than 7. the Commission, with connection to 5. a, 391 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the conduct of a forensic audit to the Deposit Box Credit Card ( BE ), which goes down to 5. the Commission, 392 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — ensuring the legality and respect of workers'rights in the restructuring process of the New Bank ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 393 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the powers of the parish and evaluate the territorial reorganization of the parish ( PS ) and 394 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend the General Waste Management Scheme, approved by Decree-Law No 178 / 2006 of 5 September 2006 ( NAP ), which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u3	We will begin the agenda with the general appreciation of Bill No 94/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the obligation to present the unemployed for the fortnight ( amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2006, 3 November ) ( BE ). To present the bill, Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : Whoever has the misfortune of being unemployed has committed no crime, he is not suspected. He is a victim and not guilty of an involuntary situation, not at his own will. The debate we are bringing here today is therefore a debate on the respect we owe each other. It is a debate on the dignity we are dealing with. A State that treats the unemployed as criminals is a State that does not respect its citizens. It is an empty procedure, from the point of view of the follow-up to which the unemployed are entitled, and bureaucratic without any content, which treats the unemployed as if they were accused of identity and residence. Besides, it costs money to those who already have little. Paying transportation to do something useless—and sometimes it's 7, 8, 9 €—is a luxury that the unemployed cannot afford.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u5	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u6	And if two presentations fail, they lose the unemployment allowance. It is an injustice, it is a disrespect and it is a useless humiliation that people do not deserve and that, therefore, has to end. Losing the job, I know - everyone, it's always a disgrace. It is not only the income that is lost, it is the daily lives of people who are crushed, it is the isolation that grows, it is the feeling of utility that is at stake. Therefore, the obligation of the State is to ensure the social protection of people who have been unintentionally in this situation. It is to have a public employment service able to channel them into a new function compatible with their professional skills. It is to propose to them training that is useful, relevant, that makes sense, that is appropriate to both their qualifications and their interests. None of this is guaranteed by the fifteen-year presentations. It is good to remember, in particular to the right benches, that unemployment allowance is not a favour that the State does to people. It is a right provided for in the Constitution of the Republic, which in fact results from the contributions that workers themselves make on a monthly basis, giving part of their salary to social security. To believe that the exercise of a right must have as its counterpart a 15-year humiliation is an offense. And when we end this offense, today we will be responding to the unemployed. [[Congratulations from BE.]] When the 15-year presentations were created in 2006 they were presented with a goal that even seemed generous: to ensure regular contact between the unemployed and the employment centres, so that they could be accompanied, to draw up a job plan, to have access to vocational training, to value their qualifications. As you know, none of this happens. Fifteen-year presentations were made, in the overwhelming majority of cases, in the parish boards. Except for honorable exceptions in which joints have services and insertion offices in active life, when a person will frame a role, it is not no job technician, nor any professional vocational guidance from the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training (IEFP ) that receives it. He is an employee of the board secretary whose only function is to put a stamp on a paper and mark the date of the next review. It's absurd, it's useless and it's humiliating. If we want to rethink the relationship between the unemployed and the employment services, there is evidence of departure: fifteen-year presentations have no function at this level. They are, in fact, an obstacle to a healthy relationship between the State and the unemployed, an obstacle to serious follow-up by those who have the power to do so. It is also in the name of the seriousness that must be removed from the law. Just remove? They've been asking a few questions over the last few days. Yes, remove them from the law. Withdrawing the fifteen-year presentations from the law is the first step to take seriously the right that unemployed people have to support the employment centre. The law already provides in its Article 42. what the unemployed are obliged to communicate to the employment centre the change of residence or the period of absence of the national territory. It also provides for Article 49. the, an infinity of obligations whose non-compliance even determines that the beneficiaries of the unemployment benefit are cancelled their registration at the employment centre and they lose the right to benefit. They are more than a dozen: since the refusal of employment to refuse vocational training, since the failure to demonstrate active demand for employment to comply with the obligations of the employment plan, since the absence of a call from the employment centre to the lack of attendance in the entities to which it was sent by the employment centre. The law already provides for an extensive number of mechanisms to ensure that the situation, address and condition of the unemployed are known to the employment centre. In fact, the mechanisms that exist do not fail. On the contrary, they fall short of having a concept of 'the activation of beneficiaries' which erroneously implies that the unemployment situation results more from individual deficits than from choices of economic policy, i.e. that it places the solution to their unemployment on the unemployed themselves, forcing them to show in permanent terms that they are looking for work as those who are looking for water in the desert. to the unemployed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for further obligations. Employment, training and social protection must be guaranteed. So we end up with the fifteen-year humiliation so that we can rethink how the State deals with the unemployed and so that we can qualify and refound the mission of the IEFP, which has been degraded to the limit over the past few years. The former government, remember, emptied the response capacity of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training. It has, of course, emptied him at the level of his professionals. Missing personal to the IEFP. It is a scandal that hundreds of people are working on false green receipts as trainers, employment technicians, professional guidance, validation and skills recognition. Many of these IEFP deficiencies represent - institutionally, particularly in external meetings, they are the face of the IEFP for the public. They worked there 4, 5, 6, 10, 15 years old always the fake green receipt. They are illegal and legitimately regarded as self-employed. But in addition, the PSI was also emptied as a labour placement entity. It is good to remember that public employment centres were born in an international resolution adopted on 1 July 1949, in the International Labour Organisation ( ILO ). This resolution aimed, and I quote, « (...) to remove non-free employment agencies for profit(...) », i.e. to terminate private companies serving as intermediaries between a worker and an employer and replace them with public employment services. Today, as you know, temporary work companies have reborn what was previously forbidden, i.e., have re-emerged the miserable business of renting people to other companies. [[Congratulations from BE.]] As if this were not enough, the former Government passed a decree in 2015 for temporary work firms to operate in their own employment centres. In other words, it privatized the placement of the unemployed, making the State finance the business of temporary workers to do what is up to the IEFP. If we want to appreciate the role of the employment centres, we must also end this deplorable business and assign the job centres to their own mission: to be the platform for meeting available job offers and the unemployed who seek employment compatible with their skills. But there is a second dimension of the degradation of the mission of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, which is the way in which training has been treated itself. in recent years, employment centres have become centres of punitive management of unemployed people and training has been done in packages, provided by trainers to false green receipt and with a single central orientation: to manipulate unemployment statistics. This model makes no sense. The proposed formations do not generally take into account local reality and the economy of the territory, do not take into account the profile of the unemployed person, ignore their qualifications, their interests, the relevance of training for that person. These are packages that need to be filled with people for technicians to present numbers and for ministers to disappear unemployed from statistics, even without creating a single job. [[Congratulations from BE.]] This has happened over the four years with the PSD and CDS government, and that is also what needs to be changed. To end the fifteen-year presentations, an empty procedure made in the fregetal boards, is not to replace them with an equally empty procedure made in the employment centres, which would, in fact, be even worse because the employment centres are further away from the residence of the people and so the displacement would be more expensive. No, that's not the point. The aim is to end the fifteen-year presentations either at the joints or at the employment centres. Ending with the 15-year presentations is also not to replace them with equally empty, but monthly presentations. The problem of mandatory presentations is not a problem of periodicity, but the fact that they are empty and humiliating. So bureaucratic and therefore totally useless. The Left Block has been holding a dialogue with the Government on this matter for months. Today, we've reached a compromise. And, for there to be no doubt, this commitment is to put an end to the fifteen-year humiliations, not replacing them with a monthly romage which is equally useless, but, yes, to reshape the way the State looks at the unemployed and their dignity. It is true that it does not solve everything, but we will be starting with the principle, which is the respect that people deserve from us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u7	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, Mr José Soeiro, the Block of the Left brings to the debate an initiative to eliminate the mandatory 15-year presentation of the unemployed. According to the Left Block, this is a measure that humiliates workers and is a useless measure. Well, let's go. I would like to recall that this measure was created in 2006 by the current Minister for Labour and Social Security, Vieira da Silva,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u9	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u10	...when I was leading this pasta. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u11	It was, it was.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u12	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u13	So, the gentlemen begin. Ladies and gentlemen, the mentor, the creator of this « humiliation», as they call it, is Mr Vieira da Silva, Minister of a Government of which you are a member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u14	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u15	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u16	But that is something that you have to solve. It's a matter for them to resolve internally. [[PSD applause.]] Let's go to what's really important. With this debate, the Left Block shows once again that it is not at least concerned about the essential issues of the country. The Left Bloc insists on nothing to say about unemployment, which is rising; it insists on nothing to say about job creation, which does not increase; it insists on nothing to say about investment, which has increasingly worse results and, Mrs. Members, without investment there is no job,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u18	... without investment workers are not protected.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u20	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with this debate, try to divert attention from the real problem of workers, which is unemployment, the scourge of unemployment, but rather and worse, you show that you are not strictly concerned about the good management of public money, the good management of workers' money.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u22	I'll explain. This measure that the honourable Members have taken. Members want to eliminate, without presenting any alternative, it was created, as I said in 2006 with the aim of sharing responsibilities and commitments between workers and public employment services. And for what? For effective social protection and for rigour in the allocation of social benefits. But you are not worried about this. In fact, I would like to quote Mr. Secretary of State, who is present today, Miguel Cabrita, who said on Monday to the Public: « Control mechanisms are important to help calibrate unemployment benefit and prevent fraud ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u23	Did you say that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u24	And the Secretary of State further said: "There will continue to be a regular mechanism for the presentation of the unemployed. Do not keep on seeking. ” Now I ask: what does this government, of which everyone is part, belong to? Delete or not delete this measure?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u26	Look at the management!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u27	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is crucial — and you know this — that there is control over the allocation of public money, because an undue allocation of public money is to penalise those who really need that money. But you are not worried about the workers, they say until this is a useless measure. Question: Useless, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? Have you already seen the data, which say that this is one of the most effective measures in controlling and monitoring the allocation of unemployment benefit?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u28	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u29	Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, when you want to eliminate this measure without any alternative, what you are telling the workers is that they are not concerned about workers, they are not concerned about managing workers' money, they are not really concerned about job creation. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what you have to think about and tell the workers, because people and workers deserve to know, need to know and, above all, are waiting for the ladies. Members say what is the strategy they really have for job creation and to combat this national scourge, which is unemployment. [[PSD applause.]] What I wanted to ask here today, not only for us to know, but for all the Portuguese, for all the workers who are looking for employment every day know what your strategy is, if they actually have a strategy, which unfortunately does not seem to us. I also wanted to remember that the Left Block, in addition to having no strategy, is completely disillusioned in its action. It is because if on the one hand — and I am just going to give an example — we are complaining, what we agree, that there is a strengthening of the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) to monitor the bad work practices — and we are always in favour, because the bad work practices need to be sanctioned — on the other hand, we do not understand that you want to eliminate an effective mechanism for controlling the allocation of workers' money. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, even to end, I would like to say that you jump from populism to populism by saying that this measure actually humiliates the workers. But what you show is that you are not really concerned about workers, because what workers are humiliating is not the 15th-year presentation, what workers are humiliating is your lack of rigour and strategy to combat unemployment and create jobs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u30	To reply, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u31	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, one of the things that humiliated the workers was the PSD statements while it was a government, which treated the unemployed as lazy and lowered the amount of unemployment allowance because it felt that if the unemployment allowance had a poor value people would find more employment. [[Congratulations from the BEe of the PS MP João Galamba.]] The PSD understood that reducing the amount of unemployment benefit was a kind of love for the unemployed, so that they would be forced to seek employment more actively. That, yes, was humiliating the unemployed. In fact, we know what the PSD's policy on unemployment benefit was: reducing its amount, reducing its duration, reducing the scope of its own unemployment protection. [[PSD protests.]] But there is one thing that I did not understand about your speech, Madam Member: is it in favour of or against the 15th-year humiliation? Is it in favor or against? I thought the PSD would at least clarify its position in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u32	Not a word!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u33	The honourable Member will know that the Ombudsman has addressed a question to his Government, the PSD Government and the CDS. The Ombudsman said the following, and I quote: "The way in which the 15-year presentation duty has been fulfilled raises serious doubts as to its real usefulness and function, clearly calling into question the purpose and objectives for which it has been established. Do not keep on seeking. ” And the Ombudsman continues: « In fact, it is known that in most cases the performance of the 15-year presentation duty is carried out with external entities contracted for the effect (maximum allowances) without any functional relationship or effective collaboration with the employment centres and therefore totally outside the process of unemployment of visas. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u34	That's right! It's the Ombudsman who says so!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u35	And the Ombudsman continues: "In the face of the above, the Ombudsman considered the problem to be raised by the Government..." — the Government of the PSD and the CDS —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u36	You don't remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u37	... «... questioning him about the real purpose and function of such measure and reflecting on himself if it is justified in the molds in which it has been implemented. Do not keep on seeking. ” The Secretary of State for the Employment of the PSD and the CDS informed the Ombudsman that the diploma governing unemployment benefits was being reviewed and that the Ombudsman's suggestion regarding the amendment or elimination of the 15-year presentation duty was being assessed in this regard. Were you, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! I could have told you! So, what was the opinion of PSD and CDS? Were they appreciating the injustice of this 15-year humiliation and they do not bring us to this debate, even your opinion? [[Congratulations from BE.]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report is an empty, bureaucratic and useless procedure, but it has been useful for the PSD: there have been thousands of unemployed people who have lost the right to unemployment benefit because they have failed a 15-year presentation. Some circumstances of life have failed two fifteen-year presentations and have cut them off unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u38	Why did they fail? Oh, my God! Why didn't they justify it? We could justify it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u39	So, yes, for the PSD and for the CDS this presentation was useful because it meant savings at the expense of the unemployed, it meant cuts in unemployment benefit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u40	Demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u41	... which, combined with humiliation, was also a way to reduce the deficit. [[PSD protests.]] Yes, Mrs. Member, it is disrespectful to the unemployed. [[Congratulations from the BEe of the PS MP João Galamba.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u42	After all, there was no other but another request for clarification, this time by Mr José Luís Ferreira. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Soeiro, the initiative which the Left Block allocated today for discussion ends up bringing to this House of the Republic the possibility not only to remove an injustice, but also to allow an approach to the concept of protection in unemployment itself, which the mandatory presentation of unemployed people has ended up compromising or, I would say, has distorted. As we know, protection in unemployment, in addition to representing an important component of the social state, is still a constitutionally relevant right that we also need to present. But there are still two elements which seem very important to us in this debate and which I would like to bring to the debate. First, people, in order to have access to unemployment benefit, made their discounts while they worked, discounted just so they could possibly lose their job.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u45	The second element stems from the fact that people who are unemployed are not in this situation because of their responsibility and much less because of their choice. Both the people receiving unemployment benefit and the people receiving social unemployment benefit could choose, they would certainly prefer to be working rather than receiving such social benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u46	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u47	It happens that these people can't choose and, not finding work, they can't choose. I mean the option, why? Because, in view of the set of conditionalisms that are imposed on people who are unemployed and who want to have access to this social benefit, the idea remains that people have chosen to be unemployed, and we know that this is not the case. in this context, the set of conditionalisms that are imposed on people, besides indicating a climate of suspicion and mistrust over the unemployed, still emerges as a kind of punishment or penalty that the state imposes on people because they are unemployed. This reminds the former Government of what we have heard here today, when we know that these people have no responsibility for the situation they are in because, if there are responsibilities, there are responsibilities! — they reside in the economic policies that were followed, above all, by the last government, which raised unemployment to absolutely unqualifying levels. Therefore, the responsibilities are not of the people. For this reason, I recently mentioned the need to approach the concept of unemployment provision itself, as a right with constitutional relevance and as a structural element of the social state. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Mr Member, you know, sometimes I even think that some people should go through this situation to understand the suffering of others. That is also why it is necessary to remove this climate of suspicion and mistrust that falls on people who do not have work and that, in some way, the obligation of the 15th-year presentation has been fostered and even accentuated substantially. In addition, it is not fair that people who do not have work, already in an undesirable situation, are still subject to this mistrust and conditionalism, especially when we are talking about rights — and I repeat, because sometimes we even forget that we are talking about rights — with constitutional relevance. Therefore, despite the fact that unemployment is not the central problem when we talk about unemployment, despite the fact that you are also sharing this reading, the central problem is the same size that unemployment has gained, above all, over the past four years and the small universe of people who, being unemployed, have access to these social benefits — yet we do not only consider that this proposal contributes to removing this climate of distrust and suspicion that falls on the unemployed, but also because it is an absolutely unnecessary obligation. And it is on this issue that my request for clarification, Mr José Soeiro. As is mentioned in the explanatory statement of the draft law—and, in our view, well—is not at stake the need to guarantee justice and control the allocation of social benefits. What we believe is that the rules currently provided for, in particular Article 42. the, and those which your proposal has left untouchable in Article 49. that of Decree-Law No 220 / 2006 already contains a set of standards and requirements that adequately ensure the guarantee of justice and the control of the allocation of social benefits, in the case of unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit. Therefore, Mr President, what I would like to ask is whether we share this reading, whether this requirement is unnecessary, and whether we can reinforce the need for this measure, especially in view of the current framework, which, in our view, already guarantees justice and control of the allocation of social benefits. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u48	To reply, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u49	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I thank you for your question and I fully endorse what you have said. I totally agree with you. Unemployment benefit is a right, it is not a favour. We must remember this: people have discounted to have access to social protection in unemployment. It is a right for them, for which they have been discounted, not a favor that the State does and by which it should persecute people. [[Congratulations from the BEe of the PS MP João Galamba.]] I also agree with you when it emphasizes the circumstance of being an involuntary situation. People have access to unemployment benefits because they will not be unemployed, not because they want to be in that situation. And the set of conditionalities that are already associated with this provision, yes, tends to treat the unemployed as suspects and as guilty of their own condition. Moreover, even some concepts such as "socially necessary work" have served as a basis for new forms of forced labour, such as employment-inclusion contracts, in which people receive a scholarship of around €80 and have neither contract nor employment nor inclusion, even though they are taking on permanent functions and carrying out a job. Adding a fifteen-year humiliation to this is really an offense. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the right-wing bench, just don't realize that this is an offense that has never experienced this situation or that you don't know someone who has been through this process. It's really an offense! It's really useless humiliation! I am sure that there are many other things that we will have to do in relation to the problem of job creation and the protection of the unemployed, and this step of respect that we are taking today, I am sure, Mrs and Mrs. Members, that all the unemployed who have gone through this understand us and will feel a relief when this humiliation ends. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u50	For an intervention, the floor is Mr. Secretary of State for Employment, whom I am taking advantage of to congratulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u51	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The 15-year presentation of the unemployed was introduced 10 years ago into the law in a double budget which was widely consensual. First, because of the need to monitor each beneficiary of unemployment benefits in order to enhance their conditions of activation and their inclusion in the labour market and, second, as a mechanism of rigor and control in order to strengthen the credibility of the grant allocation, the effectiveness of the public resources allocated to it and also to prevent the most serious forms of fraud. The mechanisms for monitoring and promoting rigour must, must, be done, be part of the systems for defending the fulfilment of the obligations of citizens, not only of the beneficiaries of social benefits, but also of other obligations, such as taxes, and generally in relation to the State. It is something that we must collectively accept not only naturally but also as the fulfilment of a duty of citizenship that is associated with a right. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] Finally, an adequate balance between rights and duties defends us all and defends the social state itself. We know how social benefits are often easy targets of criticism and attempts to discredit...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u52	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u53	... and we know that discrediting the measures is, not rarely too, the best pretext to stigmatize the people who receive them and, worse, to corroborate the legitimacy of the social protection systems themselves. There are no historical examples of this, unfortunately, among us too. Unemployment benefit, by its nature, is a particularly vulnerable benefit to a public perception of fraudulent behaviour and is also a benefit whose control has relevant specificities and difficulties. It is a social insurance — and not a universal right — that prevents the risk of involuntary unemployment. Both unemployment itself and the fact that it is involuntary are neither easy to prove nor easy to control. It is also associated with the provision of the active demand for employment, which imposes, for example, mobility and increased control difficulties. It was to respond to these challenges and to a public perception of less personal uses of this provision that steps were taken to deepen the monitoring mechanisms of this measure. in unemployment benefit, as in other benefits, Portuguese society has made a way over the years. It was a relevant path, a way of enhancing the credibility of our social protection system, a way of strengthening the ability to fight fraud and escape. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Also recently, this Government has presented a plan to combat fraud and escape social security with ambitious instruments and objectives, a plan that shows well the determination of the Government, and of this Ministry in particular, a decisive front for social protection in Portugal and its credibility. I mean, before this House, that the government is available and committed to rethinking and enriching our model of monitoring and support for the unemployed. however, we are not prepared to do so in any way and that this can be understood as an open gap in rigor guarantee mechanisms to a extent that is socially so visible and so sensitive. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]] That is why the Government has publicly defended two positions, which, in fact, maintain entirely. First, that it is essential not to give any sign of weakening the mechanisms of rigour and supervision, which would be a wrong signal to be transmitted to Portuguese society. Secondly, because it is an involuntary unemployment benefit, it is essential that public employment services be able to do more and better to accompany people, to guide them in looking for employment, to train them, to give them tools that are useful and that can provide better opportunities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The 15-year presentation of people receiving unemployment benefit is a control mechanism, but in many cases it is a particularly administrative mechanism that does not meet this second challenge that I have just announced. It is this second challenge that increases people's ability to return to the labour market or to qualification and that increases it because it increases precisely the activation itself, the very effort of public employment services, which is one of the basic stones, indeed the founder, of the philosophy of active policies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is for these reasons that we argue that the 15-year presentation for administrative control purposes can and should be reconsidered, can and should be improved,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... may and should evolve into a more positive model based on an integrated plan of activities and monitoring by employment services, in close coordination with personal employment plans; for a model that ensures regular contact with people with the system to prevent risks of increased fraud, abandonment of persons and also public perception of fraud behaviour; for a model that puts more emphasis on the work of employment centres and professional insertion offices, not only for the purposes of supervision, but also for effective work with the unemployed, guidance work, training, increased skills in demand for employment; for a model that complements the obligations that are part — legitimate and important — of any such provision, but that must be preserved to preserve the measure itself; for a model that is more solid and effective in support of people. in this sense, we cannot help but understand that there are margins to improve the current figure, as, in fact, it is normal that happens in any legal device in our country. We cannot stop engaging in this debate, the debate on how to improve the follow-up that is provided to the unemployed by public employment services, the debate on how to improve the balance between fulfilling duties and obligations and the right to have not only a subsidy, but also a public employment service that supports people more and better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we are already working with the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training to build a new model of closer, more integrated monitoring that takes full advantage of the human and technical means available, a model based on personal employment plans and planning for monitoring, training and activation of the people in this situation. This will always be — and this is a guarantee that we will not give up — a model that will never call into question, nor can it, the monitoring instruments, which would be a serious mistake to weaken. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u54	Mr Secretary of State, the Bureau has registered four Mrs for clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. In the meantime, Mr. Secretary of State informed the Bureau that he wanted to answer together. That being the case, you have the floor, first of all, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, today we are discussing a draft law of the Left Block which aims to eliminate — and simply eliminate — the duty of regular presentation of the unemployed. However, this duty is based on the initial version of the 2006 legal protection regime, i.e. by a PS government and by a PS minister, who is by chance Minister Vieira da Silva, the current holder of the folder, to whom Mr. Secretary of State depends.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u56	You will recognize the advantages of this correlation of forces!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u57	Mr Secretary of State, do you agree that Minister Vieira da Silva has decided to impose a bureaucratic, humiliating, tired and useless calvary on the unemployed, as says the Left Block? Do you agree that Minister Vieira da Silva has decided to treat the unemployed as defendants, forced to term identity and residence and periodic presentations, or as criminals, as Mr José Soeiro has just said? Do you agree with the total abolition of the presentation of the unemployed? One thing is to improve the system or periodicity and another thing is to eliminate it, simply and simply.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u58	People are still being summoned to introduce themselves!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u59	Now that we are talking about unemployment, how does the Secretary of State explain that 26 500 young people have disappeared from the system? It is because INE tells us that the unemployed population, between 25 and 35 years of age, has decreased by 3, 2 %, but the remaining unemployed population has also decreased by 2, 4 %. This was due to what? To emigration? Now the PS, the BE and the PCP are no longer outraged?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u60	Not now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u61	And are you no longer outraged at the ratio of unemployed without unemployment benefit? It has increased by 6 % compared with the previous government. It is worse than when Portugal was under financial assistance with a very tough programme. The Left Block doesn't say anything about it? Did you mention here the question of the value and time of unemployment allowance, but the only thing you are concerned about is the presentation of the unemployed? Oh, my God! Is this the only proposal we have here? Who saw them and who saw them! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u62	He seems to be asking Mr José Moura Soeiro for clarification!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u63	You stand by this and you stand by this government in exchange for what? It is appropriate to say that famous phrase « Ai can endure, endure»! Mr Secretary of State, as you know, the employment rate in April stood up in front of March; there is a trend in the fall in unemployment rate; the signs of the economy are worrying — fall in exports, fall in investment, fall in all forecasts of GDP. Even today, INE tells us that consumer confidence has fallen: minus 2, 6, in June, minus 11, 9, in May. These are bad signs for the economy and obviously also for employment. Mr. Secretary of State, what will the government do? It is that active employment policies we already realize that they don't like them, because they stopped and froze. What's the solution? It is that growth in the economy to create jobs we do not have. So what remains is this challenge to the government to explain how it intends to solve this problem. Now, I ask the Left Block: if the situation is so serious in relation to the presentation of the unemployed, tell me if we are going to vote today at the end of the plenary, your bill or it was just one more of the 'numbers' that the Left Block used to us here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u64	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, of course I have liked listening very much, because, as you know, the PSD is in favour, and that is what this is about. I ask the Secretary of State how he feels when he reads the explanatory statement of the bill, which speaks in a « logic of guilt and suspicion of the unemployed », in the fact that the unemployed « will experience the permanence of their official address, as if they were accused of being forced to term identity and residence », and in « bureaucratic baldness humiliating, tired and useless». That is how the Block sees the fifteen-year presentations contained in a decree-law of the Government of the Socialist Party of 2006, whose Minister has already been said here, was exactly the Minister Vieira da Silva. The fifteen-year humiliation that the Block speaks to us is the responsibility of a Government of the Socialist Party and therefore it is with the Socialist Party that they must speak! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u66	They're talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u67	Mr Secretary of State, I would also like to ask you what happened — and today I have heard you back a little in your statements — because last June 22 guarantees that this instrument of supervision is not exempt. In other words, just a week ago, the government said that it was not exempt from this instrument and now it says it is available. But this bill that we are discussing here aims to eliminate periodic presentations at any length. We are not talking about further improvements, Mr. Secretary of State. in the Commission, when the question of the fifteen-year presentations was raised and how the unemployed are somehow accompanied, what the Secretary of State wanted to say in a very clear way was that the Government was not available to abdicate, in the field of unemployment allowance, effective monitoring and monitoring mechanisms for the unemployed. And we're in favor. But I would like to ask you what happened next, Mr Secretary of State, what will have happened so that you — authors, defenders and “parents” of this mechanism —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u69	... a week after these statements, have you dropped this mechanism saying you were willing to revoke it? What happened? I reply: the Left Block, however, in its Convention, used the remote control and forced the Government to « put the rape in the bag », to dismiss what it said and to revoke a monitoring mechanism of the authorship of the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u70	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u71	...with which the Socialist Party worked, without moving a comma, in the years in which it ruled.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u73	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this bill represents an authentic statement of incompetence to the Minister of Social Security of 2006, which is exactly the same Minister of Social Security of 2016. This is a statement of incompetence to Minister Vieira da Silva! The Left Block is transferring the alleged humiliation of the unemployed to a humiliation of the PS and the government that I believe will not accept.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u74	Except for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u75	Exactly! Mr. Secretary of State, who is working does not have to show up every day at your place of work? If you miss it, don't you have a coercion measure? Do you not have an obligation to provide a justification for the lack of a job, under the penalty of losing your job?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u76	What a concern! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u77	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing in which we agree with the Socialist Party: the State cannot resign from monitoring whether the taxes of the Portuguese are being applied well and avoid their misuse. [[PS protests.]] And what is happening here today is absolutely embarrassing. It is absolutely shameful and humiliating for the Socialist Party to defend a bill that aims only to eliminate and does not bring any improvements in monitoring unemployment benefit. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u78	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u79	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Employment, I would like to begin by saying that in 2006 when this mechanism was created, there may have been a broad consensus, but there was no total consensus. from the PCP, in 2006, we were critical of the decision to impose the 15th anniversary presentation as compulsory for unemployed workers. I would also like to say, Mr Secretary of State, and then put a few questions to them in particular, that we have differences on the fact that we see unemployment benefit as a social insurance. It's constitutional right! The difference is that social protection and the right to social protection were a conquest of workers; insurance is an option. Law is a conquest and obligation of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u81	on our part, we would like to note that unemployment benefit is a right that stems from the contributions of workers and that therefore no government, when paying unemployment benefit, is giving an impetus, it is only guaranteeing the protection that stems from the worker's discount and, therefore, from the social security contribution regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u82	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u83	Indeed, this has meant in our country a leap of civilization with April 25, 1974, which unfortunately in recent years, in particular in the last four years, has experienced significant setbacks against the social protection of unemployed workers. Today we will have about one third of the unemployed with social protection and this is indeed an individual scourge in each person's life, but it is a sign of backwardness in the country and it is urgently needed to reverse.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u85	I would also like to say, Mr Secretary of State, that we have always been critical of the degradation of this support. We were critical when the former PSD and CDS government decided to apply a cut in the unemployment allowance that the Constitutional Court would consider unconstitutional, and the government was obliged to return that value to the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u86	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u87	We were critical and opposed to the courts in the unemployment allowance of 10 % at the end of six months when workers did not find employment. We were critical of the review of the concession period, reducing the period to which workers are entitled. And we have done so because, in fact, we have concluded that over the last few years and in particular the way in which successive governments, in particular the previous government, have dealt with unemployed workers is unacceptable. It is unacceptable because it transfers to the lives of each one the responsibility for mismanagement of many companies, transfers to each one the responsibility of precariousness that is not yours. Because if everyone could choose between having a precarious contract or having an effective contract, he would certainly choose to have an effective contract and thus stability in employment and in life.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u88	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u89	For this reason, the 15th-year presentation is just another expression of the derailment to which governments have been subjected by workers in unemployment. It is another expression that is not small, because it is an expression of the use of humiliation, of indignity, in the follow-up of these people. When the term of identity and residence is used, that's what people feel. People do not feel that they are called to the employment centre so that they can be offered a valuable job opportunity taking into account their curriculum. Don't! People are called to the employment centre as if they had to prove that they were entitled to that allowance and social protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u91	We understand that we need to reverse this path and therefore in 2016, as we were in 2006, we are against the 15th anniversary of the unemployed and we are against the fact that the monitoring mechanisms of these workers have shown that they are ineffective, so it is necessary to alter them. Employment centres today function as temporary work platforms, function as precarious platforms, function as training platforms where workers who are in a state of unemployment feel they are on a training cart, without this being useful for them to get a job with rights and effectiveness. Therefore, the mechanisms exist, but they are completely inadequate. on our part, we continue to understand that, in order to ensure the creation of jobs and jobs with rights, it is first necessary to ensure economic growth, national production, agriculture and fisheries and then to combat precariousness in their deepest causes. I am going to finish, Mr President, just saying the following: we received an e-mail, which, I imagine, was sent to all parliamentary groups, which says: « Claim due to the obligation of appearance at the event Territoire Today, Tomorrow. First of all, I would like to deliver this complaint regarding this obligation. The subject says ‘invitation’, however, it is not my surprise when a few lines below we were informed that we would suffer penalties if we did not appear. Article 41 ( 1 ). that of Decree-Law No 220 / 2006..." — which is the one we are discussing here today and who writes this is the worker in a situation of unemployment — «... it assigns the duty of citizens to appear at the places and dates which the employment centres determine. Therefore, it is my right to know, as a citizen, what criteria for this employment centre to force me to attend an event that has nothing to do with my content or my areas of competence and I wonder why this Decree-Law can force me to do this. Finally, I would like to express my deep disappointment..." — this worker says — "...how I feel and how my time has been used by that entity and my current situation of manipulated unemployment, without any positive added value for my training, curriculum or job search, the functions of this country's employment centres in front of the citizens. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Secretary of State, on the part of the CFP, is with us in the fight against precariousness and the deepest causes of unemployment. But it is also with us to consider, and to continue to consider, that the right to unemployment benefit was a conquest of democracy, and that is what we are fighting for. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u92	For the last request for clarification to Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, unemployment is in fact one of the biggest scourges today, and yet the unemployed in recent years have been treated as second Portuguese by the previous Government not only through the mandatory of the 15-year presentations we are discussing today, but also through the massive recourse, for example, to employment-inclusion contracts. But let us see how the question discussed here today directly and deeply affects people’s lives. Let's do a little exercise. Ana is 52 years old, she has been unemployed for more than three years and 15 in 15 days she has to show up at the parish board. And for what? To confirm your situation as unemployed. Not to be presented with employment proposals, but only to stamp a role. Not to be accompanied by an attempt to find training or work in your area, but to prove life and that you did not escape and thus continue to receive unemployment benefit. Unemployment benefit—it is never too much to remember—which is your right, because for this you discounted in your active life as a worker. This seems to be being forgotten by the right in this debate. This attitude of the fifteen-year presentations represents only an attitude of mere persecution. We therefore refuse to treat the unemployed as if they were criminals with a term of identity and residence. So let's go back to Ana's case. Ana has a son, she has seen her income fall to less than half of what she took as a worker and has not yet managed to find a stable new job—we know how society still punishes unemployed with 50 years, even for more women! — it was placed for only one year with an employment-inclusion contract in a school. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the feeling of someone who is forced to have a full working time and receive 150 € per month? This is no chance, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is humiliation too! As long as it has to be presented every five years in a place to give proof of life, Ana remains helpless in what she desires most: finding a job. That is also what we are talking about in this debate: the need for IEFP policies for unemployment that close the page of persecution, which end with the punitive character of measures and become genuine policies of integration and aid in demand for employment. The example given so far is the model that was implemented, with great willingness, by the former Government, PSD / CDS: that of persecution, that of punishment, that of humiliation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u94	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u95	The four questions we have left are the following, Mr Secretary of State : firstly, does he agree with the Ombudsman and with the quote that has been made here? Does the Government confirm that we will not have a new model which, by changing regularity, perpetuates prejudice towards the unemployed? Confirm that the presentation model to put a stamp will only finish? Finally, does it confirm that the unemployed will no longer have to undergo humiliating and useless displacements, ending their 15th anniversary presentations? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u96	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer the various questions that have been raised here. With regard to Mr Carlos Monteiro's questions on employment issues, we had the opportunity to discuss very recently in the Commission. I see that it is the CDS that is changing its position, because a few months ago everything was fine and now it seems that they are unable to recognize the positive indicators in employment, although, as we know, the international environment is difficult and, of course, the government is working to deal with it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One question that went through more than one of the questions asked here and which I would like to mention is the supposed contradiction that it was a PS government that, 10 years ago, introduced this measure and, if not, even the same Minister holding the folder, as if there were any problems with it here. It's the opposite. It's the opposite! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The current Minister of Labour has a curriculum in this area because he introduced control mechanisms, presented plans to combat fraud, and I would like to know what the plans and mechanisms you have proposed in the past four years have been. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I would also like to say that the double budget I have always mentioned, including in my public interventions, I am keeping it in its entirety. That is, the assumption that it is essential to maintain monitoring mechanisms and also more appropriate monitoring of the unemployed themselves. That is the philosophy we have, we will not give up on it, and this was entirely clear in all the statements I made over time on this matter. In fact, the Left Block itself pointed out in the initial intervention that in 2006 when this mechanism was introduced, it had this dual concern: to improve monitoring mechanisms, but also to make a good follow-up. What has been revealed over time, what we have come to realize is that reducing this 15-year follow-up to a mere presentation to stamp a presence is not an effective mechanism to help the unemployed. So that's what we have to change and that's the work we're available to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, as it has always been clear and as I have made a point of saying, we are not in favour — and I am speaking by the Government — to a very short elimination of this presentation. What we are talking about is to maintain monitoring and control mechanisms, but that are mechanisms that have a positive effect on people, which can help them to get out of the situation in which they are involuntary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u98	But that's not what's at stake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u99	I would like to tell Mrs Rita Rato that, when I spoke in social insurance, I spoke from a technical point of view. Of course, the Constitution states that this is a constitutional right, and fortunately that it is. Unemployment benefit is one of the fundamental pillars of any State's provision, but it has the form of social insurance in which we discount to access the benefit. That is all I wanted to say and, therefore, to clarify that, from my point of view, there is no incompatibility between our positions. Finally, to respond very directly also to Mrs. Isabel Pires, I wanted to leave here the guarantee that we will not just change the regularity to keep the model. What we want is to change the model so that we can maintain regular and useful monitoring for people who help them. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u100	That is the idea, and that is the government's commitment. We can — and I want to make it clear here — not fully follow all the qualifications and expressions used, but the concern of the Left Block is fair and we recognize this in this House of the Republic. [[CDS-PP protests.]] What is important is that we do not have mechanisms that are likely to stigmatize people, but that have the ability to monitor them and give the answers that those who are in situations of involuntary unemployment need to be able to return to what many want, which is to return to employment, of course. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u101	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u102	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. and Mr. Members: The debate this afternoon is very important because it relates the sustainability of public support to the conditions of dignity for its allocation, covering thousands of Portuguese, and therefore I congratulate the Left Block for its scheduling. The current model of fifteen-year presentations of people receiving unemployment benefit is one of several obligations that anyone who wishes to receive unemployment benefit must comply with to access this right, which is achieved on the basis of contributions to ensure their access. This model resulted in a legislative amendment that deserved a broad consensus, in global agreement, in 2006, then responding to a concrete reality, and it is important to understand the path that was made with this measure and how the passage of time has given it, allowing for changes and improvements. when discussing the fifteen-year presentations, we have a good opportunity to question the terms in which this debate has been held in our society. It does not limit itself to the instruments of monitoring public support to ensure the integrity of the social state, which the PS subscribes to, above all, involves a discussion about the different way as the left and right look at the social state, a form and a vision that the PS wants to dispute and of which the left can never resign. This confrontation is only facially about methodologies and instruments, since they are always a more limited expression of how we want to intervene socially. In other words, this is also a debate about dominant ideas about the state and employment, but also about the individual and their emancipation. Here, as, in fact, everything in politics, the terms of language dispute the social legitimacy and the technical and bureaucratic apparatus of the state is never fired from the ideology of who governs. This is how the right, over the past few years, has limited the scope of the State's social intervention, while at the same time converting the words to use contrary to its objectives, seeing the inevitability of the application of a new liberal world and understanding the restriction of its rights as a way to push down wages and a serious warning to the navigation for those who have maintained the employment during that period. Let's talk, ladies. Members, of some of these words, and one of them is even « rigour ». " Rigor" is the word with which the right is most fond of presenting itself, and it has been in the name of it that so many times masked its government action. in the debate this afternoon we have already talked about the word « rigor», but we are not talking about the same word, we are not talking about the same meaning. Indicating budgetary rigour, PSD and CDS were the champions of the Reformary Budgets, and, indeed, Europe is debating sanctions, which we hope will not apply. By making a supposedly strict management of social security, you proposed that it be partially privatized in your electoral programme. [[PSD protests.]] Speaking of rigour in active employment policies, they left the IEFP without funds to carry out their mission in fulfilling active employment policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So many times speaking of rigour in fulfilling the commitments of the Portuguese State, they have forgotten, too many times, the state's commitments precisely to the Portuguese pensioners and workers. By introducing rigor and transparency, they have privatized themselves after they have been dismissed. By claiming savings, they financed social canteens in mass, when the allocation of direct benefits was cheaper to the State. The rigour that has been proposed to us in recent years by the PSD and CDS was based on the distortion of their own idea at the service of deep ideological management and, indeed, very little creative. PSD and CDS always looked at complex materials such as a mere Excel sheet and proposed to eliminate supports, freeze and cut wages, absorb subsidies, cut pensions, attack unemployed — I repeat, attack unemployed. There is no rigour in keeping with what is not yours, and that is what the right has done under a supposed budgetary technical rigour, which, in essence, has never gone from a mask to its own political programme. This programme was based on the weakening of the foundations of the social state, seeking to isolate the beneficiaries of social protection systems by treating them as parasites, as convicted, attacking them socially, and not as autonomous citizens, who must and must be respected in their individuality and who must be trained by the State, by public services, by the social state, because no unemployment or poverty situation is only individual responsibility. It always has a collective dimension. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why rigour is what makes a consequent left-wing government. Rigor is to maintain the stability of the established social contract. Rigor is ensuring public intervention that limits the causes of the problems we want to solve, rather than exacerbating all their consequences. Rigor is to have a very present notion that it exists to ensure the integrity of the public system and not to diminish it, not to limit it. With the current government, we are proving that it is possible to combine rigour in the management of public resources with an alternative policy based on income recovery and on the re-valorization of State functions, including, of course, combating unemployment. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you leave a field open to the right on this issue, the left would weaken the position of the social state. [[Rice from PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] Why? Because in the eyes of Portuguese it is not possible to guarantee, it is not possible to separate and it is not possible to distinguish the support of social protection systems from the guarantee of good management, from the guarantee of good management of public resources, contrary to what does the right, which does not only guarantee good management as it uses prejudices and ideas made about beneficiaries of benefits and unemployed to limit the intervention of the social state to the maximum. Therefore, the current government has initiated a strategy to combat fraud and tax evasion in social security. This strategy should be extended to other mechanisms such as allies of the maintenance of a public system and of the protection of social systems itself, rejecting the austerity of the PSD and CDS, which so often wear the straitjacket to, later on, impose the inevitability that has always been, after all, options. That is why it is very important in this debate to stress that mechanisms for monitoring and promoting rigour are part of the systems for defending the fulfilment of the obligations of citizens and beneficiaries and also that there is no mechanism, of this or any other kind, to guarantee, by itself, the fight against fraud and abuse. It is therefore very important to realize the improvements that the system can have, no longer being a bureaucratic and lazy instrument. In fact, it was precisely the exponential increase in unemployment during the governance of the right that, ironically, it could have contributed to limiting the presentation for the fortnight to an administrative mechanism for the registration of appearance, without the same being a added value for improving the conditions of employability of the unemployed. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u103	The question is whether this measure has been effective and can be improved in the name of more and better social state, in articulation and never in comparison with the unemployed. That is the debate and that is where the left leads the rigour. But in addition, this debate is about dignity and the cultivation of prejudices about a part of our society, to weaken us as a whole. Dignity: There is nothing more worthy than working to receive a salary. There is nothing more worthy than living with dignity and discounting for a social protection system. And there is nothing more unworthy than being treated as a convicted person in a state of unemployment. But indignity is not from the unemployed, it is from whom this speech is promoted, as the right has done over the past few years. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It appears that this condemnation does not result from the instruments used to monitor the system. This condemnation results from the liberal doctrine that turns every unemployed person into a guilty person, a quasi-perpetual sentence, and makes access to unemployment benefit not a right — a right! — for which the unemployed have discounted, but indeed a blessing, which must demand a moral probity above all suspicion and a chain of procedures which diminish, humiliate, blame and divide our society. It is this condemnation that individualizes the problem of unemployment and that makes each unemployed a kind of failed entrepreneur of his own life. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Did you stay in unemployment? Emigre. Did you stay in unemployment? Well, it's better to be precarious than nothing. Did you stay in unemployment? You're going to clean up slaughterhouses to receive the allowance you paid for. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Did you stay in unemployment? It is better to accept a poorly paid little work without discounts than to continue like this. And we know it's like that. We know that this is the pattern of condemnation, which, even when not said, aims to make each unemployed an ally of precariousness, an ally of low wages, because pillows that guarantee protection are removed in the event of unemployment and thus trigger anxiety. That's what the right one did. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] We know that this world out there is taking advantage of these unemployed people, because it is only enough to be patient where the state was inefficient. And we know that these unemployed, so many times new precarious ones, will inadvertently be the allies of more deregulation of working conditions, because when they accept worse, when they are forced to accept worse, they will be lowering a few more degrees in the pattern of deregulation that we all become target. That is why the State cannot resign from protecting these unemployed and must definitely fight against the doctrine of the jungle that the right would impose on the country, where the "save whoever can! » never goes from illusion to collective shipwreck. [[You must say that to your minister!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u104	That is why this debate is, has been and will be so important. We need a left leader in the fights that the right takes as theirs. We need a government to make strict management of public resources the main foundation of the majority support of the Portuguese to more and better social mechanisms for those to whom life was implacable. We need to promote dignity. We need to refuse the division, prosecution and sentences on the beneficiaries of social protection systems, introducing mechanisms that are not a bureaucratic cycle infernal to any place and that these mechanisms are not the right-wing and nourishing revenge. That is what the country expects of us, and that is what this Parliament expects of this government and that is the direction we will continue to take in Parliament and in government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u105	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, Mr António Carlos Monteiro. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u106	Mr President, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, I confess that I had doubts about whether we were in the same debate, or not,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u107	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u108	... because I have not heard a single word on the subject of'recurrent presentation of the unemployed', which is a 2006 measure by Minister Vieira da Silva, which Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u109	Or maybe not!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u110	The questions I have to ask are these: do you agree that Minister Vieira da Silva has decided to impose a bureaucratic, humiliating, tired and useless calvary on the unemployed? Do you agree that you treated the unemployed as defendants, forced into identity and residence? Do you agree that Minister Vieira da Silva treated the unemployed as criminals? Do you agree with the total abolition of this presentation? What have you said about unemployment and government measures now, how do you explain the 26 500 unemployed who have disappeared from the system? Mr. Secretary of State did not explain, he might know the answer. How does it also explain that unemployed persons with unemployment benefit have decreased and that there are more than 6 % unemployed without unemployment benefit? And these numbers can be worse than those of the PSD/CDS government, which Mr Deputies has been critical of.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u112	We challenged the Left Block and we want to know: will we vote, at the end of the plenary, this bill? Now, explain to us: how will you vote? Are you going to vote in favour? Is that it? Are you going to vote in favour of the left block bill? He agrees that he would say anything about what is being discussed, and Mr President, he was unable to say. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Maria das Mercês Borges.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u113	To reply, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u114	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, thank you very much for your questions, which only appreciate the intervention I have just made. I must say that much of your questions, not to say the whole of them, have not only been addressed as they have already been answered. [[They weren't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u115	Therefore, you have not been attentive to this debate, but this has been systematic in all the debates we have been participating in and we have been stopping, both in plenary and in the Commission's office, with great pleasure. There was no social, economic or labour indicator that would not get worse during the governance of the PSD and the CDS. It is not a championship where you have a good result. Therefore, this comparison serves for the purposes of social confusion, does not serve for the purposes of reality. Having said this, Mr. Member, and I assume that Mr. Members generally realize that public policies have to be evaluated, that public policies have to be scrutinized. You, who can't get out of the past — your past is that it's going to vary a little, depending on the year we're discussing, because your reference is going back a few decades or a few years depending on the subject — they realize that public policies have to be evaluated. Therefore, we are evaluating public policies at this level, we will evaluate them at other levels and, in this as in other matters, the right, and the CDS in particular, what it really needs is a plan b. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[And don't answer!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u116	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has scheduled for today's debate Bill No 94 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) which eliminates the obligation to present the unemployed for the fortnight. PSD is a humanist and personalist party, where people are the center of their concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u119	Depends on everyone's personality!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u120	Especially when they are in a situation of greater vulnerability, such as unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u122	That said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u123	Having said that, you can say what you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u124	... I would like to say that this debate, proposed by BE, is at least surprising.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u125	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u126	And it is at least surprising, because we could and should discuss the situation of unemployment in Portugal which, with this government, did not decrease as it should. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u127	Unemployment is the main problem that the Portuguese still face because of their human, economic, social and political dimensions and is also one of the main causes of poverty. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u128	Unemployment is a social drama that should decrease and not increase, as unfortunately it is happening with the Government of the PS, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u130	More: According to the Minister of Finance, in statements today in the Committee on Labour and Social Security, Portugal's economic scenario will certainly contribute to the worsening of the unemployment situation. In short: the social drama of increasing unemployment in Portugal no longer concerns the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u131	That's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u132	It is also surprising, because the Left Block does not want to debate job creation. We recall the supreme plan of the Prime Minister, who is perhaps reiterating: « Employment! Employment! Employment! The Bible says: “He does not know what we are doing. ” We remember how the Left Block made a chorus, months ago, with this supreme design. It is true that now, especially after the numbers 1. the quarter of 2016, what remains is the stagnant economy and the reduction of employment. The honest word to create" Employment! Employment! Employment! », which led to the delirium the Deputies of the Left Block, took the wind.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u133	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u134	The urgent need to create jobs is no longer relevant for the debate of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u135	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u136	We are facing a debate that does not intend to address the issue of inactive people. in the past, the Left Block, the PCP and the PS were fighting against this social problem, but now that problem no longer arises! What a scare!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u137	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u138	They're supposed to be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u139	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is relevant to the Left Block, for this debate of the Left Block, is to eliminate, is to revoke, any short, without more or less. It is to grant rights, without having to have duties. It's pure demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u140	Exactly! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u141	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a debate scheduled by the Left Block which has only one goal: to force the Government to do what the Block wants and when it wants.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u143	And the government, depending on the Block, does it! He obeys, swallowing trouble and giving up his ideas. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u144	Send whoever you can, obey who you owe!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u145	A week ago in the Committee on Labour and Social Security, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment said that the Government is not available to abdicate unemployment benefit, effective monitoring and monitoring mechanism for the unemployed. in the preamble to the bill under discussion, the Left Block states that, with the proposed amendment, it intends to put an end to the useless humiliation of the unemployed. So, Minister Vieira da Silva — Minister of Labour and Social Security in 2006 and Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security in the current government, author of the legislation that established the fifteen-year presentation of the unemployed, has been humiliating the unemployed workers?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u146	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u147	Have you been humbling unemployed workers over seven years?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u148	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u149	It wasn't just him!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u150	The Minister Vieira da Silva, in the eyes of everyone, had already humiliated the pensioners who received the minimum social and rural pensions when he frozen them in 2006. Now, by the way, in the eyes of the Left Block, it is the humiliation of the unemployed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u151	Exactly! The humiliation of the unemployed!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u152	The PSD does not enter this arm of iron between Catarina Martins and António Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u154	The PSD is always available to improve everything with rigour, competence and work. What the PSD argues is that this topic of the monitoring model can and should be resolved by improving the quality of care provided to the unemployed and in support of the construction of their life project, in order to help them reintegrate or integrate more quickly into the labour market. [[BE's protests.]] We do not agree with the revocation and removal of the Left Block. Our great concern is the fight against unemployment, it is with job creation, it is with the protection of workers, as was demonstrated during the work carried out by the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u155	All right! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u156	Are you staying? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u157	He's staying, he's staying! It's been a long time! Do the math, Mr. Deputy! We, PSD, are concerned about the unemployed Portuguese; it is the Portuguese who want to enter or return to the labour market; it is the need to increase job offers that are made with a dynamic economy;... [[When they were there they didn't worry!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u158	... is the social protection for the unemployed; it is the rigour in the follow-up of the unemployed so that the unemployed return to the labour market in the shortest time. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are our challenges. It is important to face them, with true and strong determination and not with mere games of power affirmation to see who wins. The interest of people, especially of the unemployed, deserves more, even more. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u159	Mrs Deputy, the Bureau records Mr José Soeiro's registration, to request clarification, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u160	Madam President, I would like to make this speech an exercise in combating fraud, because this debate has had a lot of argumentative fraud and it would be important to combat it. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u161	It's too much shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u162	Mr President, I remember that you signed up to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u163	Yes, Madam President. First fraud of this debate: the PSD is surprised by the proposal of the Left Block! Mrs Deputy, the proposal has been submitted since January. Hadn't you had a chance to read and consult yet? This proposal is a kind of block eccentricity! Does a Member so devoted to the questions of work not know the Ombudsman's reports to suggest the elimination of the 15-year presentations to his own Government? Oh, my God! Mrs. Deputy, I'll explain slowly so we can understand each other. [[PSD protests.]] In 2006, this measure was created of the fifteen-year presentations that had an intention, which was emptied and degraded by practice. There is an evaluation, which is not only of the Left Block but of the unemployed, of the Ombudsman, of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training itself, which reaches a conclusion: this is a bureaucratic, empty and useless mechanism for the objectives it has proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u165	Second fraud in this debate, and I would like to give the example of rigour and combating fraud: the Left Block wants to eliminate any presentation mechanism. False, Mrs. Member! False! Don't be so fraudulent in the arguments! Article 41. ( Recipient's duties) has a reference to the fifteen-year presentations, which we want to delete. But point (g ) remains « Subject to evaluation, monitoring and control measures, in particular to appear on the dates and places determined by the employment centre. », it is to keep the law, Mrs. Member! [[Congratulations from BE.]] We want to eliminate a futile and bureaucratic humiliation that is the fifteen-year presentation. Third fraud of this argument: the Left Block wants to end supervision. Mrs Deputy, a little less argumentative poverty. [[PSD protests.]] Unemployment benefit already has many supervisory mechanisms.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u166	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u167	And Article 49. the Decree-Law has a set of 10 points which are the duty of the unemployed and which imply the cancellation of registration in the employment centre and the loss of the allowance. So that's a false argument! Fourth argumentative fraud: we would be smoothing, as we would never have seen, the mechanisms for monitoring benefits. Madam Member, I leave a small note on international reality: Spain, has no 15-year presentation ; France, has no 15-year presentation ; Belgium, has no 15-year presentation ; Switzerland, has no 15-year presentation ; Finland, has no 15-year presentation ; United Kingdom does not have 15-year presentation. Don't they have surveillance? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u168	So what mechanisms do they have?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u169	Are they States without rigour, weakened in the management of social benefits? Oh, my God! Madam Member, there is a minimum of seriousness that we must have in this debate. [[PSD protests.]] Finally, the biggest fraud was the one with which the honourable Member finished her speech: the PSD is concerned about the unemployed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u170	That's what surprises me!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u171	The PSD remembered the unemployed after years of pursuing them, sending people to emigrate, cutting unemployment subsidies, precautioning people's lives! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Mrs. Deputy, what a fraud! [[PSD protests.]] But, honourable Member, on this fraud, there will not be much to argue about, because people do not forget what has happened in the past four years. On this fraud, supervision is the very reality! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u172	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Mercis Borges.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u173	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if, in the honourable Member's argument, my intelligence is so weak, so weak, and it has so much adjectived, it was wrong at the beginning, because it said that I was even a person understood in these matters!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u174	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u175	And there are many years of work in these matters, many even listening, working and helping unemployed workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u177	Many indeed, Mr. Deputies! [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] I don't contribute to the fraud of the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u178	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u179	I don't contribute to this petition! You guys wanted to make a number of this!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u180	As always!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u181	As I don't think much, it will allow me to think now! So the fraud that you did was when Mr State Secretary, in the Commission, through a question about the 15th year presentation, answered what you had the courage to come here to say: it is something that has to be maintained, because it is an effective measure in combating fraud, in combating those who are going to work for other localities. It is an effective measure for this, it is a measure that can be complemented, from our point of view! And it can be very well complemented! [[BE's protests.]] I read what Mr. Secretary of State said. I didn't make it! You, as you have not been satisfied, went to your Convention and started the government — if it is not going well, it is going wrong — with a power agenda. [[BE's protests.]] I don't know the bill, the schedule is that it doesn't justify any of this! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u183	Do you understand, Mr. Deputy? I think I spoke slowly too, so I could understand! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] As for the unemployed and emigration, that is the case, Mr President. The unemployed, the emigration, it's all over. Why? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Because you are dealing with rising unemployment. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u184	You are convolved with the misfortune of the country, which sinks! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] You are committed to emigration that is now being done! Can you assure me that, as long as this government has taken possession, emigration has ended? That's what it looks like! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u185	So, honourable Member, I also spoke slowly and also began to explain slowly. I do not understand, it is not justified, this power schedule, because this is no longer more than forcing the government, the PS, to do what you want.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u186	Put the vote to the vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u187	True, I have to say: whoever commands this government is the Left Block! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u188	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If it is up to the State to ensure the right to work and to protect citizens in a situation of unemployment, it is not reasonable for us that the duty of presentation, which is already discriminatory in itself, does not make real contributions to help people who are unemployed. This is an authoritarian and unnecessary counterpart to the payment of the allowance, and it does not also contribute to combating possible fraud situations. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In addition, this procedure has costs, in particular with transport and food, which are borne by the unemployed, at a time when the unemployed are in a challenging economic situation. The situation is aggravated if we consider the consequences of failure to fulfil this duty, with the loss of unemployment allowance after the second non-compliance check. This obligation and the legal consequences for its failure to comply seriously affect those who are unemployed and those who are in the household of the unemployed, because we maintain in force a practice that is not only of any utility as it is still humiliating to the unemployed. This practice clearly conveys a feeling of guilt and suspicion about the unemployed, when we need to analyze the situation of a realistic and more constructive perspective and, above all, focusing on strategies that really contribute to a return of these people to the labour market. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u190	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today 20 years ago that was published in Diário da República the law that created the minimum guaranteed income, a measure of extraordinary success in combating poverty, and the data we know, year after year, have revealed that this was a successful measure. The fact is that memory in politics is always an excellent ally and, if we remember the vote on the bill that the government of the Socialist Party then put forward, we find that the PSD voted against the creation of the minimum guaranteed income in the global final vote and that the CDS abstained. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what humanist party is this, as it was just recently, beating on the chest, the PSD deputy said that the PSD is a humanist party, when, 20 years ago, she voted against the creation of the minimum guaranteed income? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u192	The PSD also said in this debate that unemployment is a scourge. For it is, it was a highly negative mark of your governance, a chasm of your governance. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Let us remember three figures that say well the failure to combat unemployment. Young unemployment at the end of the previous PSD / CDS government was 32 %; long-term unemployment at the end of your governance was 7, 9 %; and the weight of long-term unemployment, in total unemployment at the end of your governance, was 63, 5 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u193	What now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u194	In addition to the precariousness of working conditions and the backwardness of solidarity policies, active labour market policies were also negatively marked by the previous Government. In this area too, the unemployed were treated by the former Government as mere statistical pieces. The former government always fled to discuss real unemployment, because it had no answers for the unemployed, discouraged, because it had no answers for the unemployed who had to choose for emigration and neither had answers nor results for the unemployed who were engaged in active policies. Mr Secretary of State, when we look at Portugal 2020 and we see that the means and conditions for financing active labour market policies suffer a cut of more than EUR 1000 million from the QREN, then we find that there is no doubt as to what the previous Government thought and what its options and priorities were for active labour market policies. These policies were never considered serious by the previous Government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u195	The difference between what the previous Government entered into Portugal 2020 and what was included in the QREN is EUR 1000 million in support of active labour market policies. However, if we look at the allocation given by the previous government to vocational training in Portugal 2020, we see a severe reduction vis-à-vis the QREN. The Left Block today brings to plenary the theme of the fifteen-year presentations by unemployed people who receive the unemployment benefit, a measure created in 2006 through a network that incorporated not only the entities of the Ministry of Solidarity such as the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, social security and agreement with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and the ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias), and thus also incorporated in this network the board. at the time, the option was to take advantage of the employment centres so that the fifteen-year presentations were made at the employment centres of the territories with fewer registered unemployed. on a second step, the option was to take advantage of social security balconies, advanced balconies to the territories with a considerable number of registered unemployed and to take advantage of parish boards so that the fifteen-year presentations were made in the territories with most registered unemployed. It should be said that this support has been given over these years, not only by the Employment Institute, through employment centres, through social security, through its advanced counters, but also through the fregetes. It is clear here that it is very questionable to analyze the 15-year presentations in a dissociated way from the entities that promoted them as from other employment measures, because it was also, through the 15-year presentations, particularly in the fregueries boards, that many unemployed had contact with the professional insertion offices. It is that contact with professional insertion offices enables many unemployed people to enter vocational training and also employment measures and also enables closer and more permanent contact with the labour market. However, the professional insertion offices were highly devalued by the previous government, which at the end of the term of office closed a wide range of these offices, mainly in highly populous freguencies. Therefore, in our view, professional insertion offices must be valued, especially in the interaction with long-term unemployed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u196	Other active labour market policies were also instrumentalized by the previous Government, with only budgetary and statistical purposes. I am referring to employment-inclusion contracts and vocational training. An unemployed person who has an employment-inclusion contract receives a monthly supplement of 83, 84 €. There were three types of employment contracts: the employment-inclusion contract for those who receive unemployment benefits; the employment-inclusion contract + for those who receive minimum income; and the employment-inclusion contract for those who do not receive unemployment benefits or minimum income. What the previous government did was end with the employment-inclusion contract, and those unemployed, who neither receive unemployment nor receive minimum income, were deprived of the employment-inclusion contract, i.e. a possibility of entering the labour market. Therefore, at the moment, a situation which has been introduced by the previous Government needs to be corrected. An unemployed person who has an employment-inclusion contract and who is missing only six months, for example, to end the unemployment allowance, if he makes an employment-inclusion contract for one year, because this is the duration of these contracts, may only be with this contract for a period corresponding to the unemployment allowance, which, in this case, is six months. This is clearly unfair, because the unemployed are, at one time or another, without the allowance and without the addition of the employment-inclusion contract. Therefore, it is here to find situations of employability that are much more effective. The question of professional internships cannot go unnoticed in this debate either. The former government reduced the length of the professional internships, from 12 months to 9 months, with only one interest: when the professional internships were 12 months old, the trainees, if they did not continue to work in the same employer, would take unemployment benefit. The former government has reduced them from 12 months to 9 months to withdraw the possibility of trainees receiving unemployment benefits if they do not continue in the same employer. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] We also recall that these professional internships reached the peak of interaction, of the trainee with his employer, at the height of 8 and 10 months of internship, and therefore saw the end of the professional internship at that time. And we all remember what the previous government said about the degree of employability of professional internships. The former government spoke in very higher numbers, which is the real employability of the professional stages, which is 16 %, in the same entity. It was another mistake that the previous government has launched in public opinion, and today this ambush is broken by statistics, which we already know, i.e. the real employability of professional internships in the same entity, from 2011 to 2015, was only 16 %. Therefore, the questions that are being asked at this time, taking advantage of the presence of the Secretary of State, are the following: how does the Government view these active labour market policies, such as professional insertion offices, employment-inclusion contracts and professional internships? What is the government's assessment of the effectiveness of the fifteen-year presentations in the context of active labour market policies? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u197	With no registrations for requests for clarification, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block calls us to a positive agenda around the unemployed. In short, he wanted to mark this time mediatedly, pointing out the convention of his party and the strengthening of the leadership of his General Coordinator. We congratulate Mrs Catarina Martins on these circumstances: her leadership and choice of the theme « unemployed ». But we must not be deluded by his approach, nor by his tone of voice. Otherwise, let's see. Since it has been demonstrating its support for this government, the Left Block and the left in block have come to have a set of initiatives that represent an attack on the economy: it is the regression in the area of transport, it is the break with the agreement, of parliamentary scope, for the reduction of IRC, it is the weakening of social dialogue, it is the speech against capital, against whom it invests, against whom it creates jobs. Don't! He's not a friend of the unemployed who say he's next to him, but he's making his situation worse. He is a friend of the unemployed who engages in policies that effectively promote employment and that the Left Block cannot do because simply does not believe that. I no longer say to the Left Block, but certainly, for some, or many, from the left in block work is an alienation and, if they could, they would not propose the exemption of the unemployed in IEFP, if they could, would exempt employees from presenting themselves before their employer;... [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] ... employer who, to the left in block, rhymes with evil — the other side of the struggle. [[BE's laughs.]] In this respect on the left and right, I have heard Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro say that the right wishes to see the unemployed cleaning up forests. Mr President, I think you will be wrong. actually, I'm here to see a news, and it must be true because it's on the Web siteEsquerda.net,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u199	I'm glad you use it, it's very good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u200	... and that says so: António Costa wants refugees cleaning up the forests. [[BE's protests.]] I think we've been wrong about this, sir! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Regarding the way the left looks at the economy... [[BE's protests.]] You have to listen, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't like it, but you have to listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u201	Well, they don't like it anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u202	Just look at the results of their political partners, when they have the opportunity to govern in other countries. in Greece — Greece of its Syriza friends — unemployment continues above 24 %, according to Eurostat data. And, for example, in another hemisphere in Venezuela, a regime that deserved a strong encouragement from so many socialists, such as Mário Soares, the IMF estimates that the unemployment rate will rise from 8 % in 2014 to 14 % in 2015 and to 18 % in 2016. This has been the highest level since 2003, but the IMF believes that unemployment will continue to grow in the coming decades. Unfortunately, the results of this policy are also in sight in Portugal. According to Eurostat data, the investment presents the worst development in terms of counterparts, i.e. less than 2, 5 %, and the April data reinforce the trend of reversal or slowing down of the low unemployment cycle. This is since the beginning of 2013 when the top of unemployment was 17, 7 %, until the end of the previous government, at which time that value dropped to 11, 9 %, unemployment was reduced by 5, 8 %, a difference of more than 142 000 jobs. But unfortunately this decline in unemployment has slowed down, thanks to policies supported by the Left Block. As we know, months have been worse than others in unemployment numbers, but since there have been data on this matter since October 2013 which has always fallen, except this last April, when the PS arrived in the government. These are worrying but worse indicators, insofar as they show social sensitivity, and contrary to what I am saying, the rate of coverage of unemployment benefits has fallen from 50 % to 44 % since this government took office. we agree with Mr Soeiro. He said today and here that to be unemployed is to be a victim, and, I add, to be unemployed today is to be a victim of policies supported by the Left Block. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] So, no, the Left Block is not a friend of the unemployed and is not really concerned about who is looking for employment. in this context, the announcement of a threat to a referendum on the stay in the European Union, linking the country to the great economic instability that the decision of the United Kingdom first leads to the citizens and the economy of that country, reveals total irresponsibility, a total lack of sensitivity to the most vulnerable and, in particular, to the unemployed, those who are the main targets of the instability wave. In short, we are faced with a hooligan against the economy, a hooligan who then emerges in the suit when he asks for care for the victims of his policies. In short, this is what we are discussing here today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u203	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u204	Mr President, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia spoke about Venezuela, Greece, but did not talk about Albania and other countries such as Spain...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u205	I also spoke of Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u206	Yes, he also spoke a little bit of Portugal, but he said bad! You said wrong! The honourable Member has forgotten the fall in the indicators that could in decades measure the level of investment, the level of employment, the level of emigration of a government that you have supported. You have spoken about refugees — what I think is that we have a refugee right in a narrative from which you cannot leave — but the debate is not about refugees, although it may at times seem like the policies that you have introduced in the country, the debate is even about the unemployed. In 2014 his government said: « The government will put the unemployed and the beneficiaries of the social income of insertion to clean up and monitor the forests of the country. (...) According to the Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, Pedro Mota Soares, the Protocol Social Work for Forests allows speeding up the return of the unemployed to the labour market». This news is dated May 12, 2014 and is in the Newspaper. I would like to know whether the honourable Member agrees or disagrees with this measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u207	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, as you can see, the CDS no longer has time to respond, but it has been given the floor to request clarifications following a doctrine that has been established and that has not yet been resolved in the Conference of Leaders, which is to give the floor for this purpose, if the parliamentary group still has time, regardless of whether or not it has time to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u208	Madam President, the Socialist Party gives a minute for the answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u209	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u210	Mr Tiago barbosa Ribeiro, first of all, I appreciate the time you gave me and the question you raised. But I can see that you have used the time of your intervention to avoid stopping from what is really worrying, which is the increase in unemployment, the reversal of the fall in unemployment, which has occurred in a marked way and which is the responsibility of another government. in fact, this is the central issue that we have here today. On the issue you raised, you did not mention that it was indeed the President of your party, Dr. António Costa, who referred to cleaning up the forests for refugees. Of course, that does not suit you and that is why you did not mention it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u211	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u212	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : Reiterating the position of the CFP, we say that the fifteen presentations do not help, nor do they follow, the situation of the unemployed, on the contrary, stigmatize us and hold us responsible for their own unemployment situation and for the impossibility of finding a job and leaving a assumption of distrust over the unemployed that we cannot accept. In addition, we cannot but mention the difficulties that many have experienced in meeting these presentations or because they do not have economic conditions or mobility conditions for this, in addition to the penalties they suffer, thus imposing penalties on those who are already penalized for not having a job. All of this makes it necessary to reflect on the role of the State and social security in supporting the unemployed and in fulfilling the right to work provided for in the Constitution and to conclude that the policy options followed in this area, by successive governments and for decades, have created a situation that does not serve the interests of the unemployed and does not create conditions for them to regain employment with rights and dignity. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : No worker wants to leave without his job, no worker wants to go to unemployment, no worker wants to lose his salary. Unemployment, social protection for workers who are unemployed and the necessary follow-up to their unemployment situation are, for us, matters on which it is also important to reflect. Unemployment is one of the greatest economic and social scourges, it is closely linked to serious situations of poverty and is an effective tool for the exploitation of workers by reducing the cost of work and the degradation of living and working conditions. The worsening social situation and the brutal increase in unemployment, to which we have seen especially in the last four years, are not disconnected from the political options of successive governments, particularly the PSD/CDS governments, which have changed labour legislation, facilitating and hindering dismissals, giving the employer the opportunity to fire and cheaper, thus sponsoring the unemployment of thousands and thousands of workers, sowing poverty and afrozen rights. In addition, the attack on the social protection of the unemployed, the successive changes to the rules on the allocation of unemployment benefit, aggravated by PSD and CDS in the Government, which sought to restrict access to this benefit. They pushed workers into unemployment to situations of further degradation of their living conditions. Unemployment and the reduction of social protection are always tools used to reduce wages and hinder work, and that is, in particular, what the last PSD/CDS Government has done with those measures that have led to the unprotection of the unemployed. It should be recalled here that in the State budget for 2016, on a proposal from the CFP, it was possible to adopt an extraordinary measure of support for the unemployed to give a more immediate response to those who are in a situation of greater vulnerability because they lost access to unemployment benefits without having been able to access to the reform or find employment. It was an important step on a path to ensuring better social protection for those in unemployment. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot talk about unemployment without talking about the profound precariousness that is multiplying in the lives of thousands and thousands of workers who divide their lives between precariousness, low wages and unemployment, as if the exit to unemployment was to work without rights or as if the exit to precariousness was unemployment or more precarious, but it is not. Ladies and gentlemen. The alternative to unemployment and the alternative to precariousness is right employment, and that is what the CFP will continue to fight. In addition, in this same sense, we have recently submitted an extended set of legislative initiatives to combat precariousness to guarantee and restore rights taken back to workers by rejecting the path of backward work and social rights which has experienced profound worsenings during the last PSD/CDS government. We cannot talk about unemployment without talking about what was the destruction of our productive apparatus, what meant the destruction of jobs and the loss of wealth for the country, and about the criminal privatizations in national strategic sectors that, in addition to challenging national sovereignty, meant dismissals, precariousness and low wages. For the PCP, it is essential to respond to this worrying social scourge, combating the path of exploitation and impoverishment that PSD and CDS have sustained for four years. It is important to ensure employment with rights and the necessary social protection for the unemployed, to value work and workers, to value wages and to bet on national production. This is the commitment which the CFP undertakes in the defence of workers' rights and for a fairer and better distribution of wealth, in a path of development, progress and social justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u213	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say at this stage of the debate that this House expected much more from the subject they brought here. In fact, I was waiting for this assembly and waiting for the unemployed who are listening to us,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u215	... above all on a particular day when Mr. Minister for Finance gave a huge interview to the public, who has the title Government already admitted that the growth of the economy will be lower this year. If we could give this interview a new title, it would be the top 10 of the negative signals of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u217	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this interview, the Minister for Finance makes it very clear that the economic growth model has failed. In fact, it announces that by October we will have significant changes, even worse will be for the State Budget for 2017!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u218	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u219	This is the news that has invaded the country today, and we cannot help but bring this political fact into the debate. The Left Block, in the explanatory statement of this bill, which aims to eliminate the fifteen-year presentation of the unemployed, also states that when it comes to unemployment it has to be talking about economic policy. All right, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree on this, which, when we talk about unemployment, we talk about economic policy. But there is one thing that has to be very clear: it is legitimate that the parties that support the government may have ideological differences, but what we do not tolerate, what we cannot accept, is that your differences in priorities exist. In other words, there must be a coincidence in the priorities they defend because, after all, they are the banks that support the government. Or do they cog in one day and sabotage in the other? Oh, my God! That is not what the country needs, Mr. José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u221	In this respect, I would like to say to the honourable Member that the PSD is very clear on this matter. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] Listen, sir! In fact, let me tell you that, in a legislative agenda, the Left Block understands that the first priority is the 15-year presentation of the unemployed. It is indeed a priority, and for the PSD it is also a priority, but before that priority, Mr Deputies, there are many other priorities for eliminating the 15-year presentation of the unemployed. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] Let's talk about priorities. First priority: creating jobs. Second priority: lower unemployment rate. Third priority: increasing job offers. Fourth priority: to increase the social protection of the unemployed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u222	Mr and Mr Secretary of State, if these are the priorities for us, for this government there is no longer a problem right now, a problem that you do not want to see, that you do not want to accept, but there is. We have a reduction in job creation, we have an increase in unemployment, we have a reduction in job offers and we have a reduction in the social protection of the unemployed for the same month. The Government cannot, in any way, tow a tow from the Left Block's weekend agenda. It can't and it'll hurt the country if we're like that. Nor can this government agree in the morning to think that it will eliminate the 15-year presentation of the unemployed and, in the afternoon, to oppose active employment policies, which will benefit, exactly, the same unemployed. Mr Member and Mr Secretary of State, we cannot have a government that wakes up in the morning with the national design of a modern and adjusted social state and in the afternoon we have a government that presents political options that are no more than a reflection of measures taken in the lunatics of the 20s. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important to mention here, for example, that you, since you are a government, have only criticized the rate of physical and financial implementation of employment measures. They criticized, disagreed, wanted a change of direction, but did not present it. So far, they criticized and despised training in the context of work. So far you have criticized the internships, not recognizing that 70% of the young people who finish the internship get jobs in the next six months. Therefore, all this and more the employment-insertion contracts are placed in the bag of precariousness, in the bag of slavery and we do not get out of this. We don't get out of this, because this is your speech. It was so ugly, it's not fair, ladies. Members, who at a time like the country faces, at a time when the Minister of Finance gave this interview that ended up leaving the country in panic, we are here discussing the sixth or seventh priority in relation to labour matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u223	What about the 15-year-old performances? That's too ugly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u224	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the part of the PSD will always count on our responsibility and we are available to help the country where necessary, but never with the Left Block marking the agenda, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u225	And about the fifteen-year show, zero! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u226	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u227	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u228	Madam President, to request the distribution of a document.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u229	For an appeal to the Bureau, therefore. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u230	Madam President, it is to request the distribution of a document that reports a 2010 statement by the Secretary of State for Civil Protection, the Government of the Socialist Party, Vasco Franco, in which it announces that civil governments will convene beneficiaries of the unemployment benefit to clean up forests. That's all, Madam President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u231	Mr President, you can bring this documentation to the Bureau, which will be distributed by the different banks. However, I note that the Bureau does not register any more entries, even though the Socialist Party and other parliamentary benches still have time. [[Pause.]] You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make a very brief reference to the speech of Mrs Carla Barros to clarify some of the issues she has referred to. It is not true that employment has fallen and that the unemployment rate has increased. Employment, in terms of counterparts, has obviously increased, and I do not see how you can see that the unemployment rate has increased, because no indicator refers to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to clarify and make it clear that, with regard to active employment policies, we do not criticize them. We do not criticize active employment policies; we criticize how they were used and the fact that the future has not been guarded. This is completely unforgettable, Mrs. Member, and I am sorry to say this way. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to clarify, although I think it was entirely clear in my speech but because this question has been repeated again, that my recent statements on this matter at nothing are incompatible with what I said today. Because being in favour of a mechanism for regular monitoring of unemployed people is completely different from being indisponsible to review the current model, the current figure, of this 15-year presentation, which can and should change and which should instead have a focus on the strategy of returning to the labour market, as, in fact, has already been said here, and very well, by a Member. I would like to reply very briefly to Mr. João Paulo Correia of the PS, and also to provide information that, I believe, is useful when we talk about issues such as cancellations of unemployment benefits. These cancellations represent a small part of the huge number of people who receive unemployment benefits, who need unemployment benefit and are not subject to cancellation. So when we talk about cancellations and possible irregularities, we are actually talking about a small percentage of these cancellations. And when we talk about the cancellations that are caused by failures to the fifteen-year presentations, we talk about an even smaller universe. So we're not talking about the average unemployed, we're not talking about large numbers of people in these situations; we're talking about a small range of unemployed people. So what we can of course think is that, in terms of effective control, it is perfectly feasible to replace this mechanism by others who effectively ensure that people are monitored. We will not be slowing down supervision, we will be finding a different model of being able to accompany the unemployed, and he mentioned, and very well, the role of the GIPs, the professional insertion offices, which can and should be valued in this work. As such, to make it clear and to reaffirm, I will say that the Government is available and is committed to ending the current figure of the 15-year presentation of the unemployed, as it now exists. This, of course, if you want the Left Block, you want all the political forces in this House to be able to build a solution that makes it clear — and that is what we are concerned about — that there will be no weakening of rigour. That's our only concern. The current model is subject to huge improvements, even saying a paradigm shift, to a focus on returning to the labour market and on strategies that can help people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As we have always said, we are not in favour of the total abolition of monitoring mechanisms, a mechanism of regular contact with public employment services, but the current model, I would say, not only can it evolve: change focus, have content, train people, help. We trust that the Assembly of the Republic and the various political forces, in the specialty debate, will find a fair balance between these concerns and, on our part, we are fully available for this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u233	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, during the intervention of the Minister, entered for a request for clarification, Mr Álvaro Batista, of the PSD. I must say that it is not praxe, it is not common and, although there is no written norm, there is, however, a consensus that the last interventions, being present by the government, belong to the government and the party that made the marking. however, there was agreement by the Government so that the honourable Member could ask his question. However, I did not want to stop making this reference, because beaches also have an almost regiment value. So Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u234	Madam President, the squares have already been more valuable in this House, and in addition the Government and the Left Block both have time to finish the debate, if they so understand. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the absolute subservience of the Government to the Bloc and the Bloc dictatorships has been clearly evident in this House. In order for the Left Block Coordinator to be able to make a 'number' in the Convention, it was clear that the Government would do what was necessary: to get on its knees, a Secretary of State would come to dissipate from each other in this House one week and even question the role of the Minister of Labour who is currently in front of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u235	Exactly! [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u236	We understand the strategy, which is, in fact, clear: the government wants to discuss the accessory, because it does not have the conditions to discuss the essential. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u237	That's with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u238	The reality is tough, and, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not us who say it, it's social communication and it's the Portuguese out there. Newspaper, of May 16, 2016 : 223,000 registered in employment centres; Newspaper, of May 24, 2016 : There are 373,000 people without employment and without benefit. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in October last year, there were 542 030 unemployed registered in the employment centres and there are currently more 1928.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u239	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u240	I'm done now, Madam President. at this time, there are more 17 380 people in Portugal who are unemployed and do not receive subsidies. It is to deceive this reality that the Left Block brings these details to the Assembly, because it cannot face reality, and this is not right. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u241	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u242	Madam President, I did not detect any questions in this speech by the honourable Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I did not detect any questions to the government. It is not my duty, of course, to judge the regimental figures, but the fact is that I don't even know what to say about the number of things that have been said here. I just wanted to reaffirm that, as far as I am concerned and as far as this Ministry is concerned, we kept exactly the same position, I just explained why. If you did not understand what I said, we regret it, but I cannot do anything about it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u243	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for a final speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u244	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : First of all, I must tell Mr. Secretary of State of Employment that I am pleased because the PSD bench, in particular, had a good weekend, attended the Left Block Convention!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u245	And to the elections in Spain!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u246	It can always be educational to realize how there are quite different solutions for the country than they advocated for four years. I had hoped that it would indeed be a moment of learning, but because of the interventions we have heard, nothing has changed and prejudice against the unemployed remains.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u247	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u248	For 10 years, we had this model of fifteen-year presentations and, for 10 years, the Left Block disagreed with him. But reality has also been changing and what we see in this debate is that the PSD does not change its opinion regardless of reality, just tries to create disruptive elements on the management side. Well, it is an old war, a battle that is going to be fought, but always with the same outcome: they do not realize what dialogue is, for us, a constructive word and that we know how to manage our opinions, always according to people and their rights. [[PSD protests.]] Of course, the reality of PSD and CDS was very different. We all remember that irrevocable resignation in which Paul Portas imposed himself as Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u249	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u250	Well, but these PSD traumas are that they fear to be overcome, nothing has to do with the reality now lived.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u251	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u252	Mr. Secretary of State put on the table the Government's will to have a new paradigm for monitoring the unemployed. from the part of the Left Block, with all the frontality, we tell you that a new paradigm is really necessary. We saw the drop—see, a Member of the PSD said that the priority of the PSD was to increase social protection. This came from the same party which, when it was in government, cut the unemployment allowance to which it had been unemployed by 10 % more than six months. The long-term unemployed, at the peak of unemployment in our country, had a 10% cut in their unemployment allowance, and they call it social protection! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This is the release of the PSD and CDS, and that is why we have to change this paradigm. And for us, changing the paradigm is starting with values and, above all, ending prejudice towards the unemployed. The state should not look at the unemployed with a stick and tell them that they are bad guys who don't want to work. This is not how a modern State looks at people and not how a State assumes its responsibilities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u253	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u254	...because we know that the state can and should have an economy that creates jobs. The PSD destroyed it and we know that we have to have social sensitivity to respond to the difficulties of people's lives. This is the first turning point in the paradigm: to view the unemployed as people who are denied entry into the labour market, because the economy does not yet create the opportunities that are due them. Secondly, to end this 15-year romaria at the employment centres. And end it really! It's not becoming monthly, it's not becoming bi-monthly. It's to end the idea that people go there because yes, just because someone has to put their eyes on them to make sure they're not bad guys who don't want to work. This is the prejudice you have to end! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u255	Dignity! It's called dignity! You don't know what it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u256	This paradigm shift that Mr. Secretary of State mentioned here also presents a challenge to the Left Block, and we realize that. We want to end these two-year presentations, to see the government's availability on this path, and here too, to review the whole model of follow-up for the unemployed. We must end the idea that the State abandons the unemployed because they are unemployed, who just want to punish them, does not want to help them. Don't! We want a state that wants to accompany the unemployed to help them get jobs, a state that helps an economy create jobs. I think we agree with these values. I therefore believe that, in our willingness to show that we are going to lower this diploma to their committee without a vote, the possibility of having a constructive debate. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u257	The right is saying "Ah! Because for them, it is indeed a novelty for Parliament to have a role in this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Well, it's new times, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! It's new times! Get used to this matter! Get used to it! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Now, with this opening, Mr Secretary of State, we also tell you clearly and figuratively that the unemployed and the unemployed in our country look at us with hope, but also with an urgency, and that is the urgency of the work in Parliament. That is why, with this availability and with this openness, we must start working as soon as possible to radically change this model, starting above all with those that are his words: changing the paradigm, ensuring that the unemployed are not treated with prejudice but with the help of a State that exists to serve them and to create an economy at the service of people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u258	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our agenda today. following the intervention of Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I welcome the Left Block by its Convention...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u259	That you had a lot of hearing, as you saw!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-29.u260	... which took place during the past weekend, and I also congratulate the Socialist Party for the realization of its Parliamentary Days. The next session will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. with a PCP marking for the general discussion of Bill No. 231 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establish the regime for the replacement of freguesis ( PCP ), and draft law No 272 / XIII ( 1 ) will also be discussed. ( a ) — Approves the extraordinary process of restoration of ferries extinguished by Law No 11 -A / 2013 of 28 January ( BE) and draft resolution No 393 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of the competences of the parish and the evaluation of the territorial reorganization of the parish ( PS ). As you know, there is the prerogative of the party that makes the legislative agenda require the vote on the diploma at the end of the debate and, if so, we will have the vote after the debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 22 minutes.]]
