ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries. I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary of the Bureau, to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members had entered the Bureau and were admitted, draft resolution No 96 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the construction of the Eastern Lisbon hospital ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission and draft law No 107 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eighth amendment to Law No 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December 2006 — updating the minimum pension value, social pension and rural pension at the level of inflation ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 10. the Commission. In the meantime, draft resolution No 66 / XIII ( 1 ) was withdrawn by the proponents. ( a ) — Repeals the Cambridge Process ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then start today's agenda, which, as you know, consists only of political declarations. the order of intervention previously defined, therefore, has the floor, first of all, for a political declaration, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, the richest among the rich do not pay the taxes due and the damage to the state is estimated at EUR 3000 million! The complaint was made by a former Director of the Tax and Customs Authority, in a recent interview with a media agency, and confirmed in a memorandum sent to the Assembly of the Republic by the Tax Authority itself. It is nothing that the CFP has not been saying for a long time, but now we have confirmation of this by the public body itself which proceeds from tax collection. The Tax Authority, using its databases and external information, has collected taxpayers holding a wealth of more than EUR 25 million and / or has annual incomes of more than EUR 5 million, i.e. the richest among the rich. in the first approach, 240 people were identified in this category, who in 2014 paid only EUR 48 million in IRS. A truly insignificant value, taking into account the very high income and heritage of these people. This is a scandalous situation! It cannot be accepted that those who are most likely to escape tax payments by calling on the State essential tax revenues to ensure their functions, in particular social functions, and by requiring the other taxpayers, in particular workers, to make an unmeasured tax effort. The Tax Authority, with its limited resources, has so far managed to identify 240 taxpayers who fall within this category of the richest. But it's more, more! An international study, which the Tax Authority identifies as a reference study, estimates that in Portugal are about 930. A company that sells tax consulting services to these taxpayers considers a universe of 1000 people, a thousand citizens who, having a very high estate and / or income, flees to the payment of due taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u5	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u6	A simple calculation makes it possible to estimate by around EUR 3000 million the annual tax revenue resulting from the appropriate taxation, within the IRS, of this group of 1000 millionaires. But this potential revenue has been wasted, by political options that favour a small minority of privileged people, at the expense of the overwhelming majority who live in their work. It should be recalled that in 2013 the former Government, PSD and CDS imposed a brutal tax draw on labour income, including lower income. in one year, IRS revenue increased 35 %, more than EUR 3200 million. This measure of attack on the incomes of those living from their work, accompanied by many other austerity measures, has contributed to the spread of poverty and to the degradation of the population's broad-layered living conditions. This brutal increase in taxes was not inevitable. It was an option! An option of the PSD/CDS government, which can appropriately tax a small minority of millionaires, raising billions of euros of additional tax revenue, preferred to go to seek these billions of euros to workers, pensioners, families and micro and small businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u8	These options are very revealing the nature of the right-wing policy, so diligently applied by the previous PSD/CDS government, a policy that the Portuguese rejected in such an expressive manner in the legislative elections of October 4. The lack of political will and effectiveness in combating the tax failure of the richest among the richest contrasts with the persecution of the former Government, the PSD and the CDS, directed against small and medium-sized taxpayers, whether they are private or companies. If the millionaires pay taxes a very small fraction of what they should pay, they shrink their shoulders and talk about the difficulties and obstacles to proper taxation. If the small taxpayer commits an infringement, even if involuntary, or delays in the payment of taxes, an exorbitant fine is applied, the wages, the car and even the house are weighed down.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to taxpayers with high capital capacity, those with an annual income of more than EUR 5 million and a wealth of more than EUR 25 million, urgent measures are required to provide the Tax and Customs Authority with means and instruments to allow them to collect the taxes due. Because we do not comply with an unfair and unjust fiscal policy, because we do not comply with the tax crushing of workers and small businesses in order to encourage a small group of taxpayers millionaires, the CFP Parliamentary Group will present an initiative in the Assembly of the Republic with a set of decisive measures to combat the tax evasion and escape of the wealthiest taxpayers. It is necessary to consider measures in terms of fiscal legislation, but also of the human and technological means made available to the Tax and Customs Authority, the creation of partnerships with other organisations and entities that access or study information considered sensitive, in terms of the real estate reality and income of the wealthiest taxpayers, as well as an intervention within international organisations, in particular in the European Union, IMF, UN and World Trade Organisation, in order to combat the so-called fiscal competitiveness whose aim is to capture tax revenues originating in third countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u11	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u12	I conclude, Mr. President. The CFP reaffirms here the need for a new and alternative fiscal policy, more just and more appropriate to the country's needs. A fiscal policy linked to the budgetary dimension, which adequately taxes large businesses, economic and financial groups, higher incomes and assets, while at the same time dishonouring workers, pensioners, families, as well as micro and small businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u13	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u14	It is to this end that we will be going to fight for these proposals. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u15	Mr Paulo Sá, the Bureau records the registration of four Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. I don't know how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u16	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u17	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Rubina Berardo.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u18	Mr President, I would just like to make a request for clarification to Mr Paulo Sá, since we were present at the same hearing in the Committee on Budget, Finance and Administrative Modernization, which was very important to bring clarity on the statements of the former Director-General of Tax and Customs Authority. The purpose of this hearing was to clarify this matter, and it was very clear that there was never any dismantling of any monitoring unit of high-income taxpayers. It was also clear what was done by the former Executive in terms of increasing control mechanisms, increasing control of double taxation agreements, raising taxes on luxury, raising taxation on capital and increasing the IRS on these taxpayers, with an average rate of 46 %. It was also very important to have been clarified in the two hearings of yesterday that there was no political pendant in the performance of the Tax Authority. He therefore asked for his opinion on this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u19	Mr Pinho de Almeida has now the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u20	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, the issue raised here is very important and has been addressed yesterday seriously in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization. It is important to recognise from the outset that what led to the existence of the hearings we held there was clarified in a negative sense, i.e. there was no decommissioning by the previous government of any unit accompanying the taxpayers of high potential in terms of heritage. And this is important to make it clear that there was no previous government policy option to reduce the proximity to this type of taxpayer. It was even clarified that it was not this unit that, from an inspection point of view, accompanied these taxpayers, but rather the general inspectors of the Tax Authority, inspectors who were hired by the previous Government in number as they had never been, by no government, in the past, and under highly favourable remuneration conditions, which naturally led to such competitions having huge membership within the Public Administration. But let's go to the real question: yesterday, we also looked at numbers that tell us that the 1000 taxpayers, who, at the IRS headquarters, pay the most, pay, today, an average rate very close to 50 %. Both the former Director-General and the current Director-General have said that it is not dependent on national legislation, much less on the functioning of the tax machine, to be able to maintain within the national perimeter contributors with this type of average rates, if they rise, because this type of taxpayer can easily relocate its capital and even transform its labour income into capital income, transporting them to other jurisdictions, through mobility. So what I ask you is that the honourable Member is part of a parliamentary group that supports the government. What is that, from concrete proposals, the Communist Party is willing, seriously, to present...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u21	Didn't you hear? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u22	... in order not to prevent these taxpayers from leaving national jurisdiction and moving to other tax jurisdictions, which would cause our revenue to decrease and, therefore, would be a purely demagogic measure, without any budgetary effect, allowing these taxpayers to remain within national jurisdiction and actually pay a tax and average rate closer to what is due and that was attempted to obtain, by the previous government, for example, through the increase in rates? It is that the rates have increased for these taxpayers more than for anyone else and the revenue has not increased. This has to do with these problems, so it is to these concrete problems that a party supporting the government has to give serious and non-demagogic answers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u23	To reply, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u24	Mr President, Mrs Rubina Berardo, Mr João Pinho de Almeida, both interventions referred to the dismantling of the unit. It was yesterday, of course, that the team accompanying these richest taxpayers has only six elements, which work part-time in this task. And we know that these taxpayers have at their disposal mechanisms, instruments, means of aggressive tax management so as not to pay taxes. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The former PSD/CDS Government knew this, but did not provide the Tax and Customs Authority with adequate means to enable it to fulfil its function by these taxpayers to pay the taxes due. We also heard in yesterday's hearings that the Tax and Customs Authority referred to the former Government, the PSD and the / CDS, proposals for legislative amendments aimed at eliminating the « slippers » that are used by these taxpayers to avoid paying taxes,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... and that the previous government did nothing about it. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u25	But this is something that we will have to fully clarify, that is, we will know why the previous government, the PSD and the CDS, having in their hands concrete proposals to eliminate those « slippers »,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] ...he preferred to close his eyes, hang his shoulders, look on the side... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u26	...and let these taxpayers pay only EUR 50 million IRS. In fact, not even EUR 50 million, it is EUR 48 million, paid in one year. And it is necessary to compare this value with the potential revenue that would result from the full compliance of these taxpayers with their tax obligations. A simple calculation shows that the potential revenue is about EUR 3000 million! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u27	We know that it is difficult to realize this potential recipe, but we cannot give up. The CDS discourse is always the same: when it comes to creating conditions to properly tax these taxpayers it is only difficulties, it is only obstacles. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] And what we say is that decisive measures are needed... [[Which ones?]] [[Which ones?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u28	...to make these taxpayers pay what they owe. I announced a short time ago from the rostrum that we are going to present a proposal... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u29	...containing concrete measures, such as the honourable Members. Members will have the opportunity to analyse, which will focus on legislative amendments to provide the Customs and Tax Authority with appropriate means and tools to meet its objectives and also with a view to the need to start international efforts to close the loopholes and escape routes of these taxpayers for the payment of their taxes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u30	Mrs Mariana Mortágua now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u31	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, I would like to thank you and congratulate you for bringing this topic to the debate, which started from a hearing proposed by the Block of the Left, the former Director of the Tax Authority and the current Director of the Tax Authority. The meeting was important because, for the first time, we had the data that enable us to confirm a feeling that exists in Portuguese society, which is that there are richest people who can escape taxes, which is, in fact, impossible for the middle class, for most workers and for small businesses. There are two different sources that estimate that in Portugal there are 1000 taxpayers with annual incomes over EUR 5 million or assets over EUR 25 million and that only 240 of these 1000 are even identified by the Tax Authority. Even the 240 who were able to be identified by the Tax Authority pay a very small part of the tax that is due and therefore proportionately pay much less than any citizen who works and has an average salary in Portugal. This confirms the idea of a Tributary Authority and a State that has a very strong hand with whom it has little power, but does not even have a hand that reaches those who have more money, who have more possibilities and who have more power. The second point raised at the meeting is even more important: how do we solve the problem? And the former Director of the Tax Authority was clear: this must be made a political priority by the Government and the Assembly of the Republic. And this has not been a political priority, because if it had been, there would have been human and technical means for the Tax Authority; if it had been, there would have been access to bank data by the Tax Authority, and there would not be; if it had been, there would have been different banking rules, as the Left Block has repeatedly proposed here. The former Director of the Tax Authority also said that we have to make a decision: or we want to go after these incomes in fact - and then, yes, we have to have the debate here, with concrete proposals, and we will certainly participate in this debate - or then we do not want to go after these incomes and we will assume that Portugal competes fiscally in the European context and wants to become a country with more favourable legislation and that it charges less taxes to the richest. What we can't have is the hypocrisy of saying that we are against fiscal iniquity, but never do anything or touch where it hurts to end it. Mr. João Pinho de Almeida came here to be very concerned about the flight of capital, but no one cares about the escape of the middle class of this country,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] ...with the brutal increase in taxes that have existed or with austerity and unemployment! When people run away from the country, there is no problem, but if there are a few rich who take the capital of Portugal, who don't even pay taxes, ai, ai, ai! , it is not possible to play in the legislation of these powerful ones. So it's time to make a decision. I would therefore like to say to you once again, Mr Paulo Sá, that although you have come here to open this debate and that the Left Block will participate in it, as you have already done many times.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u32	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u33	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that I would like to know whether, at the time when we did the debate that Mr Paulo Sá has opened, we will again have the CDS and the PSD voting against the lifting of the bank seal, to vote against the lifting of the transfers to offshores, to vote against the laws that may, in fact, make a difference. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u34	To ask for clarification, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u35	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, it was with pleasure that we saw the PCP choose this issue for discussion in plenary. We have followed yesterday's hearings with great interest and there are facts that we have to underline here today in this plenary. In 2012, after a horrifying failure of the budgetary objectives, the PSD/CDS government presented a huge increase in taxes. This huge increase in taxes has punished the Portuguese generality. The data distributed by the Tax Authority to us say that, in average terms, Portuguese taxpayers had an increase of 5 percentage points in the average rate of IRS. This 5 % increase means a 33 % increase in the tax burden, based on IRS. But for taxpayers with higher capital capacity, the average rate growth was 0 %. They try to confuse us by saying that the biggest taxpayers are paying a lot more taxes today, which is true, but in average terms, the increase in the marginal rate was much lower than the rate of the generality of Portuguese: the increase in the average rate of IRS for the 1000 largest taxpayers was 1, 4 %, while the overall rate of Portuguese had an increase in the average rate of 5 percentage points. Mr Paulo Sá, we need to create a system that increases fiscal efficiency. There is no justice in our community and there is no cohesive community without fiscal justice. What we have been building in recent years has been a dual system, a system that, on the right, says « it is necessary to charge taxes to meet the budgetary objectives », but which is also saying « for some to stay, we have to reduce the tax burden of those who have the most ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is not tolerable in a just society like the one we want to build!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u36	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u37	I will conclude by asking Mr Paulo Sá about the following: today the CFP presented the idea of a set of initiatives in this area. I would like to ask you clearly: what measures will you try to put forward in order to reduce tax arbitration? It is that what happens is that many of these taxpayers use instruments either in the country or outside the country, but they also use other taxes to escape contributions within IRS. I therefore leave this to you, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u38	To reply, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u39	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua and Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, I thank the questions put. Both have focused on very relevant issues, which is the value of tax revenue that each year is lost by the fact that these richest taxpayers, of these 1000 millionaire taxpayers, have failed to meet their tax obligations. We have to compare these 3000 million potential tax revenue lost every year with that which was the size of the tax draw imposed by the previous government, the PSD and the CDS. As we all well know in 2013, the PSD / CDS government, through legislative amendments, imposed a brutal tax draw on labour income and, in a single year, from 2012 to 2013, tax revenue increased by 35 %, i.e. more than 3226 million euros in IRS, at the cost of tax crushing workers, pensioners, families, micro and small entrepreneurs. And the PSD/CDS government had, at the time, two options: to do what you did, i.e. to impose the tax draw on small taxpayers, workers, families, micro and small entrepreneurs, or then to take decisive steps to put these 1000 taxpayers to pay what they should pay,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u40	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u41	...making them fulfil their tax obligations and generating a potential annual tax revenue of EUR 3000 million. The PSD/CDS government has not hesitated, attacked the same ones as ever, imposed the tax burden on the income of workers, pensioners, pensioners, families, micro and small entrepreneurs and shrugged their shoulders with regard to the repeated non-compliance of the large taxpayers, who, if they complied with their tax obligations, gave the State an additional revenue of EUR 3000 million. It was a clear option of the former Government, the PSD and the CDS that the Portuguese rejected in the polls in the elections of 4 October. In conclusion, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, with regard to the proposals which the CFP has announced today, we will shortly present an initiative with concrete proposals to solve this problem, which goes from legislative amendments to various dimensions - it is necessary to act on this front in a decisive way - but also to provide the Tax and Customs Authority with appropriate means to enable it to carry out its work and make these taxpayers fulfil their tax obligations. But it is also necessary to act at international level, as you have mentioned, because one of the instruments of tax evasion by these 1000 taxpayers is the use of offshore. Portugal must therefore have a decisive role to play in closing these escape channels to the payment of taxes. With regard to the challenge which you have launched, on tax arbitration, of course, on our part, there is every willingness to put an end to this tax arbitration. You can count on the PCP to achieve this goal, but that is not enough, we need to go much further in order to achieve the goal of making these 1000 richer taxpayers fully comply with their tax obligations. And I repeat: this represents a potential annual tax revenue for the state of EUR 3000 million, so we cannot let these taxpayers continue, impunity, to violate their tax obligations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u42	Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 30 years ago, Portugal became a member of the European Economic Community. A country just left the Revolution, with a still young and fragile democracy, knew, with broad political consensus, to take the strategic step and adhere to the European project. in these 30 years, Portugal has changed a lot. Portugal has changed thanks to the Portuguese, thanks to democracy, but also thanks to the unequivocal choice for Europe, this option which some parties represented here still cast. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u44	Not everything was perfect, not all the opportunities were taken advantage of, not all the consequences of accession were positive, but the balance was clearly favourable to Portugal and, above all, to Portuguese. Five years ago, our country was reported in Europe for the worst reasons. The pre-bancarrot and rescue request placed Portugal, alongside Greece, at the centre of Europe's concerns. But in four years, between 2011 and 2015, Portugal exceeded bankruptcy ; it carried out a very long adjustment programme, negotiated by the Socialist Party ; it fired from the troika ; the Portuguese economy grew again; unemployment decreased; external investment returned and the confidence of investors and Portuguese was reconquered. In four years, Portugal became a different, more sustainable country, more prepared to face the challenges of the future. I have no doubt, we have no doubt: the effort has been worth it. Because we changed, we recovered our external credibility. Let's stop being compared to Greece was a victory. The Portuguese were once again ambitious. The country has come back to a future. This, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a new time! With the PSD Government / CDS-PP, we have once again become a European actor, respected by the peers, with ideas, heard in the European project, as demonstrated by some initiatives that have our signature: the creation of the Banking Union, in order to prevent taxpayers from paying for the mistakes of the financial system ; the energy union, fundamental to reducing the bill of energy; or also the negotiation of the Plurianual Financial Framework by 2020, with the creation of the partnership of the cohesion countries, which, led by Portugal and Poland, were crucial to the conclusion of the negotiations. In addition, Portugal has prepared Portugal 2020, placing on companies, employment, the qualification of Portuguese, and above all in combating inequalities. This strategy has merited the praise of other Member States and the European Commission itself. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, even though the current Government is trying to deny it, Portugal was the most advanced country in implementing the new Community framework until December. But, after all, can we or can we not talk about a new time for Portugal and the Portuguese? The current ongoing counter-reform process, a light version of the sad PREC or, then, the ongoing retro-regression program does not announce anything good for the Portuguese. of facilitation and revenge in the area of education, the populism of measures such as the replacement of 35 hours of work, the reversal of the privatization of the TAP or the processes of granting public transport, there is no need for us to be concerned, seriously concerned, also because we know from the newspapers of the postponement of the refunds to the troika and the invoice that will come there. It's too many mistakes in less than two months. After five years of the crisis that has turned our lives from the bird — and again with the Socialist Party in the Government — Portugal is again worrying about Europe and being told outside for the worst reasons. in recent days, the Prime Minister confirmed that negotiations with Brussels around the budget for 2016 were difficult. Yesterday, Catarina Martins and Jerome de Sousa came to threaten António Costa, the leader of the coalition, in the public square, confirming that the electoral promises and the government agreement never covered in the Budget Treaty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u45	But we don't hand in irrevocable letters!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u46	We don't have a budget yet, but we have a view of all the government's disillusionment. The accounts were not made, and again we count on the sincere confession of the Minister of Finance of the Socialist Party, as has now happened about 35 hours: first, they are counted later and, at the end, everything is removed again. The sad sin of the Socialist Party, the sad sin of the Portuguese! Where have we seen and heard this?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u48	The word given is not even an honest word! The Government has already confirmed that the 2015 accounts were in order. Even today the Minister for Foreign Affairs has confirmed the deficit below 3 % without extraordinary measures. A deficit of 2, 8 % for 2016 therefore does not represent any nominal consolidation and certainly corresponds to an increase in the structural balance by choice of this Government. And it excuses the PS of, with a lack of smell, invoke 2015 as a year in which there was no structural consolidation, forgetting or deliberately omitting the great achievement of our democratic history of structurally consolidating 9 percentage points between 2011 and 2014. This consolidation was made at a time when the Socialist Party only heard saying "we need more money and more time", which, in Portuguese, means more troika, more debt, more costs for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u49	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u50	In 2016, turn the page, but do not turn the page forward. Go back, turn to the previous page of a book already known from a time that the Portuguese thought was outdated. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The troika returns to Portugal within days, already next week, but we hope it will be just passing by. The PSD wishes, for the benefit of Portuguese, that discussions with creditors do not aggravate mistrust or install uncertainty. the Government of António Costa is finally responsible for presenting a state budget that does not compromise the future of Portugal and that does not force the country to a new rescue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u51	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u52	I'm done now, Mr. President. The Portuguese don't deserve it, until they've seen this movie, and it's not fair that they pay the ticket again to see it all again. Antonio Costa has no such right. First, it has a duty: to honour the commitments of Portugal, to honor the sacrifices of the Portuguese and all the effort we have made to get here, and above all to stop looking down to the rest of Europe. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u53	Mr President, the Bureau has registered four requests for clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u54	I will answer in groups of two, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u55	To request clarification, Mr. João Galamba has the floor,
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Duarte Marques, finished his speech saying that the Prime Minister had an obligation to fulfil Portugal's commitments, and he is quite right. Only Portugal's commitments are of varying order: there are internal and external commitments. And there is one thing I can assure you, Mr: that this government, unlike the previous one, will fulfil all its internal and external commitments, not just external ones. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I know that this is a bit confusing to the honourable Member and that he considers it a bit bizarre, but, yes, this is a government that does the same thing of honour in fulfilling its electoral commitments, its government programme and the contract it has established with the Portuguese. If you don't understand and think that's strange, we'll be here to remind you whenever it's necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member also found it right to criticise the Prime Minister, saying that he had said that the negotiations were difficult. It is natural, Mr President, because this government, unlike the previous one, is even trying to negotiate with our creditors, does not do any genuflexion, does not give up the first one and, above all, does not betray the internal commitments that are as important as the external ones. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He also said that we should be a European country that honours its commitments and that this government promotes facilitation in education. The honourable Member has just made a huge accusation to all of Europe, since if this government promotes facilitation in education, all of Europe is a facilitator in education, because the only thing we did was regain normality and align with European practices. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is no European country that had examinations in 4. the class and what we did was, exactly, align with the Europe with which you have made an oath of love here. [[PSD protests.]] We do not make an oath of love, we are concerned about doing, more or less, what Europe's generality in this matter did and did, contrary to the previous government. On the other hand, the honourable Member also said that the investment had returned. What investment, sir? He's back where? I'm aware of a fact that shows that the investment had returned. It fell to mid-1980s values, it was stagnant in the third trimester of last year and we are going to try to get it back.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u57	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u58	I will finish, Mr. President. The honourable Member has come to say that the government has paid off the troika. No, Mr, it was the budgetary accounts that the previous government had made them wrong. And there were two issues that changed the financing needs and, as such, altered the troika reimbursement, such as the New Bank's related one: it was in the accounts of the previous government as being sold by EUR 4, EUR 9 billion last year and not only was it sold, as it rendered zero. Therefore, this had implications for funding needs. Mr President, will you also renounce that promise from the previous Government? That's the question I leave you with. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u59	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Filipe Marques, there are three questions which, I believe, in these times of a real government, cannot be answered, because the truth is that we have succeeded, and above all the Portuguese have managed, with great effort, to recover something which is very difficult to recover, but which is very, unfortunately, very easy to lose, that is credibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u62	We want the pages and the book of instability, risk and danger to be kept forever closed. And certainly none of us in this House likes to see every day the news we've seen in the last few weeks, that's why. Members of the PS and the coalition that supports the government, it is time to do something about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u63	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u64	The news about poverty doesn't bother you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u65	And you can start by answering a first fundamental question. I have often heard « the country has no time to lose, we are prepared to present the budget at the end of December» ; then, when that date was approaching, it was said « we are prepared to submit the budget at the end of January ». But after all, it looks like it's going to be the first week of February. Mr President, do you not think that the Government has to answer this fundamental, clear and crystalline question: when does the budget come to this Parliament? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not a government advisory body! Who approves the budget is this Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u66	It's Brussels!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u67	once and for all, clarify, after all, nor is it what the budget content is, is when it is presented! It's extraordinary that you guys are. Members of the Left Block are no longer curious about the budget, even knowing when it comes in. You don't care anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u68	It interests the content, not the date!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u69	It's funny, it's quite different from the position they had in the opposition. Secondly, it does not seem to you that a government that presents itself in Brussels with a strategy of zero effort in the structural deficit and zero effort in the nominal deficit is a government with a rather naive or amateur strategy, to use euphemisms, and which clearly does not guarantee...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u70	I ask you to conclude, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u71	Of course, Mr. President. Third key question: how much will the new budget strategy cost? Because the strategy of, instead of repaying EUR 10 billion of more expensive loans, repaying only EUR 3000 million costs money, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. You're going to pay more interest! The strategy of increasing the deficit costs interest. It's not the CDS-PP that says so, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's UTAO. I conclude, of course, but I suggested reading this UTAO report, which clearly says that what it costs is to postpone the deficit and pre-finance the country, precisely to escape the risk that you are creating. I would like to raise the third question: how much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u72	You have the floor to answer, Mr Duarte Filipe Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u73	Mr President, the answer to Mr. João Galamba is a curious answer, because what is strange, in our view, is the PS to insist on the mistake! It's already the fourth time we're bankrupt, or we're going bankrupt with the Socialist Party. It is this government that is a chabula, that insists on facilitating education and that even changes what were the policies of the Socialist Party! That's where we came by the hands of the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u74	Respect your party, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u75	It is that even in education your government goes against the whole tradition of the Socialist Party, to think that they are making Minister Nuno Crato the great hostage of this new troika that is in Portugal, which is the troika of the left! But what the Socialist Party does not distinguish, and has to distinguish, is whether it wants to choose the commitment to the Portuguese, to its sustainable future, or to the commitment to the new troika that governs in Portugal. It seems that the Socialist Party, now, is hostage to the left troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u76	We are hostage to our electoral commitments!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u77	It is for being hostage to the left troika that is obliged to increase the limits of debt! Who confesses here that the figures in the macroeconomic scenario of the Socialist Party were not made, were not correct is the Socialist Party itself! I already know, Mr President, that the strategy of the Socialist Party is to use Banif as a biombo of the incompetence of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u78	I've been talking about BES!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u79	But we have also heard Mr. Prime Minister and today we have heard Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs say that either the investment that was made in BES or the investment that was made in Banif does not count on the deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u80	Investment in BES and Banif? Oh, my God! Explain that, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u81	What a mess!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u82	So, Mr President, I will return the question to you: it is not Banif that obliges the government to go to the markets to hire more 11 billion public debt. Now, answer, where is the rest? Is it the ransom paying for the Left Block and the PCP? Is the ransom paying for the agreement to be a government? [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Is it the ransom to pay so that you can be Prime Minister? Answer me, honourable Member! That is the big issue. It's not Banif who's gonna serve you. The commission of inquiry requested by the PSD will give us an opportunity in the coming days to clarify everything that has happened in this country in recent years related to Banif. Although I have very little time, I would like to say to Mrs Cecilia Meireles that the questions you have asked me also I would like to see answered by the Government, the Government, who, thanks to this new coalition, still has no budget. And, by the way, neither will we be close, because what we believe is that they do not even understand their budgetary strategy and other coalition partners need to come to the street and make threats in the public square so that what they agreed will be fulfilled. What is clear today is very simple: the government did not have the accounts, the government lied to the Portuguese because the budget treaty was not careful in the government agreement and now we're going to see what's going to happen. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u83	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Duarte Marques, went up to the rostrum and spent half of his intervention talking about the country's situation in the last four years, but curiously ignored all the problems in the country, created by your governance, by PSD / CDS government. [[PCP applause.]] I did not say a word about unemployment, as if there was no unemployment, as if it were not a scourge that was tormenting the Portuguese. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u85	He did not say a word about poverty and extreme poverty, which spreads throughout the country. I did not say a word about the brutal increase in taxes directed against labour income. It ignored the issue of the closure of public services in areas within the country and throughout the country. He ignored the attack on the social functions of the State in education, health, social security, depriving Portuguese of rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. The honourable Member has drawn up a framework which does not correspond to the real country, has ignored all the problems that your government has created. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u86	That's not true. That's a tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u87	We are waiting for the PSD and CDS to assume responsibility for the situation in which they left the country. The honourable Member also spoke about the banking union. We are waiting for the PSD and CDS to assume their responsibilities for what happened at BES and Banif.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u88	No BES? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u89	The current budgetary situation in the country is the result of your policies, of your government action in the last four and a half years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u91	And what the honourable Member here has called, with great disarray, backwardness in education, workers' rights, etc. No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u92	And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u93	...in fact, it corresponds to the return of what you, in recent years, have wrongly withdrawn from the Portuguese, workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u95	The honourable Member also talked about investments in BES and Banif. in fact, what you did was use the taxpayers' money, the Portuguese money to cover holes in the bank, holes those raised by bankers' handovers. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u97	If you want to talk about budgetary restrictions, and you gave me the impression that you wanted to address this issue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u98	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u99	... then, you have to start by explaining the tax bill that they gave to the 1000 millionaire taxpayers, which has a size of EUR 3000 million. If it weren't for that tax bill, if you had taken the necessary measures, today we would have a much better budgetary situation than we have. Finally, Mr Duarte Filipe Marques, I would like to say the following: Don't be fooled by the social communication headlines concerning the CFP. It is because whoever talks about the PCP is the PCP and the guarantee that we give to the Portuguese, and that the PSD should take into account, that for everything that is solutions to the problems of the workers, of the people, of the country, can count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u100	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u101	Mr President, Mr Duarte Marques, tells us today of the 30 years of integration of Portugal into the EEC and says that the balance — the words are yours — is in favour of Portuguese and Portugal. It is still curious that you bring this issue to the debate and what we have actually seen is that the PSD continues to believe that everything is best in Portugal because of Europe. Nothing more wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u102	Nothing more wrong? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u103	One thing can be concluded: the PSD continues to go ahead with Europe and to obey blindly, without ever thinking about the greater commitment, the commitment it is concerned, which is the commitment with Portugal and towards the Portuguese, which has been successively broken over the past four years. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And now, on Europe, austerity and its consequences, Mr Duarte Marques, there is a study that may be interesting, this study not very long, it is quite recent, of the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation (the unsuspecting Foundation in this case), which refers, and this study was done precisely because of the commemoration of the 30 years of Portugal's entry into the EEC, which currently the average standard of living in Portugal is 25% lower than the European average, which means that we are at 1990 levels. Thirty years of integration have passed, and what has advanced to the average standard of living was only three years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u104	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u105	Therefore, they are fallacies when they want to tell us that Europe has helped advance the country, because it has not moved forward. That's enough! The Portuguese are full of this position that Europe is making us move forward when all the evidence indicates that it has brought us back to work, to work, to health and to education. So far, we've only seen retreats, retreats, retreats. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say the following: I think the Portuguese finally understood why the PSD talks so much about investment and why the investment has increased. Because, by the way, now the investment is saving the bank hole.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u106	You're so wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u107	There, in fact, the investment has increased considerably. however, the investment in health, education, the commitment that matters,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u108	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u109	... that it is not, in this case, with the European institutions that say to cut more but with the Portuguese, that commitment has always been broken and, finally, the mask fell and we realized what the investment meant: saving four banks, so far, and leaving the lives of the Portuguese side. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u110	To reply, Mr Duarte Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I was listening to Mr Paulo Sá and I was in doubt that I think it is relevant. It is that this speech by Mr Paul Sá is the same as four years ago to this part and, indeed, it is not very different from the speech of the Socialist Party. Now you realize why they're all together in this coalition.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u112	First, were we separated and now we're all together? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u113	I would like to ask Mr Paulo Sá or, rather, the Socialist Party the following: after all, what a miserable country we live in, what a country of misfortune is this where everyone lives badly and where there is no hope? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u114	I should have more respect for the most disadvantaged!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u115	Is that the same country that Antonio Costa was talking to Chinese investors? Oh, my God! Is it the same country that the IGCP presents to foreign investors? Oh, my God! It is now with this government in January that the IGCP said it was a growing country, a country that did structural reforms, a developing country, a country in which there will be no backlog of policies! If so, sirs. Members of the Socialist Party, what they've said out there is a lie and they're fooling foreign investors—and the lie has a short leg—or, then, they've been lying to the Portuguese over these four years. Why is the question: Is the country better or not better? So either lie out there or then the reality of the country does not give comfort to your speech. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] It reminds me of those presidential candidates who walk around and who say in the morning that the country is a misery and in the afternoon praise the great work of the companies, the great quality of the Portuguese. It is a sign that there is hope, that the country is better,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u116	I don't know that country!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u117	...it is no good for your miserable speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u119	Leaving Parliament's benches and going to visit the Portuguese, get to know the real country, get to know these companies and see that the country is not as bad as you paint it. Mrs Isabel Pires came here to confirm a suspect that we had and that we are now certain. It is that part of this government coalition does not like the European Union, does not feel well in the European Union,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u120	Yeah, no! What's the news? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u121	... they do not even respect, as we already know, the budgetary treaty and have great doubts about European participation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u122	You want to see what they're gonna find out next? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u123	And they make a mistake, which is a study error, which, perhaps, also has to do with such facilitation. It is because Mrs Isabel Pires confuses what is the convergence with the European Union's average with what is the evolution of the quality of life of the Portuguese. And that's not the same thing, Your Honor! Only someone who is distracted or who does not want to see the reality of the country is that he thinks that Portugal has only improved its living condition by 0, 3 % since 1985 or since 1986, Mrs Deputy. It is not having lived with well-opened eyes,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u124	... is wanting to face a reality that is not that of this country, because this country is much better, Portuguese are much better, companies are much better, social institutions are much better than you want to paint them. I am only asking this coalition: do not ruin everything, do not do Portugal again the European problem, do not let them call Portugal « the new problem child of Europe ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u125	That's what we can do! What we don't want is to leave Portuguese children in poverty!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u126	We weren't used to that anymore and that's where we're going back.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u127	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u128	I'm done now, Mr. President. And, above all, it is the great risk of putting the Portuguese effort into waste. Because Portugal has once again had a future, do not question the future of the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u129	For a political statement, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This week, in compliance with its Programme, the 21st Government has started a journey through the country that has designated Volta Simplex. Happy designation that, in addition to referring to the collection throughout the national territory, of contributions to its implementation, aims to mean that the Simplex is back. It is not just — and it would already be relevant — to put back a brand initially launched in 2006, therefore a decade ago, and the success of which had already been immediately recognised by citizens and businesses (and which has also been recognised by the European Commission as the best European innovation project in Public Administration ), but above all it is to restore, strengthening, a strategy of cross-border administrative modernization, capable of involving and mobilizing all ministries and services of central, regional and local administration. Perhaps it is true that the postponement of the reform and administrative simplification measures to a very secondary plan and the fact of the recognition of the merits of the Simplex, even if done in a timid and intermittent manner, has not had practical translation(and who does not remember the announcement, never realized, of a Simplex II? ) or even if it has been sought to spread its own designation in an anodized programme Simplify that, already near the end of the legislature, it was recommended to the government of then, although also without known realisation of relevance. We believe, however, that more than we will revisit the past, a time and place where, as is known, mortals are already very little allowed to do, it is important to underline the challenges of the present and, above all, to mobilize wills for the future. And here, in this matter and in this House, it will be worth, I think, to recall the example of the consensus mirrored in the adoption of resolution No 31 / 2014, adopted without any votes against, and what it meant about the recognition of the importance of administrative simplification and deburocratization. It is fair to recognize that the generality of citizens and companies associates the term Simplex, for its merits, with the reduction of useless bureaucracy and the improvement of service, to the point that we often listen, coming from any user who was not in line with the service that was provided to him, the disfavor « this needed was a simplex. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, let us take advantage of what has been positive and enhance the simplified culture, a culture of greater clarity in the law, a culture of quality in care, greater transparency and rigour in the deadlines, the participation of users in the services, a culture, finally, of greater confidence in the citizens and their administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This culture, which we must all be aware of, is not created by decree, but can only result from persistence and continuity. Without this continuity, the old culture, refractory to all changes, will always tend to replicate and maintain itself. The constancy of this ambition to innovate, simplify and deburocratize is thus also a condition of its success. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Started this Monday, this same week, and for three months, Volta Simplex will travel to mainland Portugal and autonomous regions, in business meetings with entrepreneurs, associations and citizens from all over the country, open to everyone in them to participate. Its stated purpose is to collect, with a living voice, real cases of bureaucracy, whether a situation, for example, occurs in an even-indistinct way in Vila Real and Lisbon. The keystone of Simplex 2016 will therefore be participation, focusing on the needs of the user and consumer of public services — citizens, companies or associations. Knowing how to ask the right questions and wanting to hear the answers, it will be easy to properly draw measures with real impact on people's lives, taking advantage of, repeat, what has been done and modifying what has not had the intended or desired impacts, involving all the Public Administration and all its workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a competitive economy requires public policies focused on eliminating unnecessary bureaucracy, reducing the costs of context and predictability and transparency of State relations with natural or collective persons. The elimination of the costs of context, i.e. administrative burdens on citizens, businesses and other sectors of activity, as a result of the fulfilment of administrative formalities, reporting obligations or burden-taking or burden-taking, is an unmistakable step towards creating a climate that enhances competitiveness and business dynamism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If at this stage we add, for example, the other one that has been translated into the very recent creation, in the Council of Ministers, of a Mission Unit for the Capitalization of Enterprises, incorporating persons of recognized merit and with the function of identifying and proposing to the Government solutions likely to address the problem of corporate capitalization and the financing of investment, then we will have the portrait of a Administration genuinely committed to creating conditions for the revival of the economy. The construction of the most inclusive, modern and competitive country that we desire certainly passes through here too. Simplex is back. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u131	Mr President, you have entered three points for clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u132	Mr. President, I am replying together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u133	You have the floor, then, to ask for clarifications, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all the measures aimed at simplifying and modernising our Public Administration are, of course, welcome. I must recall that the former Government, the PSD and the CDS-PP have developed a set of measures in this area that will all be remembered. I recall here, for example, the profound review of the Citizen's Portal and the Citizen's Balcony. I also recall that the previous Government created the Municipal Transparency Portal ; it created the Simplifying Programme, with numerous simplification measures around the One View principle ; it launched the Mobile Key ; it created the Participate.gov.pt portal, aimed at public participation of citizens; it implemented the Zero Licensing ; it created the Single Environmental License; it created the Strategic Plan for Rationalization and Cost Reduction with Information and Communication Technologies in Public Administration ; it launched the Approaching Programme. I recall that, within this program, it is possible to create and open 1000 citizen spaces, which is a new concept of assisted digital service, and at the moment 350 of these spaces are open, in full operation and available to the public. Thirty-fifty citizen spaces that have already allowed more than 1 million attendances. I also recall, curiously, that the last three areas of the citizen were inaugurated in one of the first public acts of this government. I also recall that in the context of the launch of the Approximar programme, we are undertaking the creation and launch of new citizen shops, in this case with municipal management. Also here, curiously, one of the first public acts of Mr.Minister of the Presidency and of Administrative Modernization was to inaugurate the last shop of the citizen in the municipality of Mafra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u136	As a result of these measures taken by the previous Government, today we can say that we have a more participatory public administration, closer, simpler, more inclusive, more efficient and more transparent.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u137	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u138	E, Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão, Mr. Ex.a devalued all this work, but I must recall that in July 2015 Portugal was leading in the provision of online public services to citizens and businesses, according to the European Commission. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, says that the Government intends to resume the Simple programme. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u139	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u140	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, this is not about to resume the Simplex programme. This is to resume the slogan of the Simplex programme, because the real simplification, the real modernisation of the Public Administration, was done by the previous Government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u141	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, I begin by saying that the CFP believes that the State has the responsibility and duty to provide public services of quality and proximity to citizens and also to ensure social functions of the State. But in the last four years, what have we seen by the PSD/CDS government? The pretext of fiscal consolidation, the reduction of deficit and the reduction of public debt, the PSD, the CDS and its Government have led to an unprecedented attack on the social functions of the State and on public services. They concentrated and closed public services, reduced the response of the State to real and concrete needs of the people and the country and attacked the rights of employees of the Public Administration. The PSD Member, who raised the question, forgot to mention all this again, and all this led to the degradation of the quality of the services provided to the citizens, called into question the rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic. The PSD/CDS government had a clear, ideological, political, programmatic objective: to deny the image of public services, to attack public administration workers to create the conditions for delivering services that are now provided by the State to the private, transferring to the private what was and, in our view, must continue to be an obligation, a responsibility, a duty of the State. Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, we believe that it is necessary, it is essential, to reverse all the evils that the former Government has done in relation to public services and the social functions of the State. in this sense, Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão, I ask what are the prospects of the PS regarding the valorization of public administration workers, the appreciation of public services and the social functions of the State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u143	Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, I begin by congratulating you on your political statement. We in the Left Block follow the concerns related to administrative modernization, we subscribe to the principles, we will be here to support all measures that facilitate the lives of citizens and businesses, in order to improve and facilitate the lives of citizens in general. however, I bring here a concern. Modernization and computerization cannot be a factor of social exclusion. It is necessary to take into account the reality of so many citizens with difficulties or, even, limitations on access to technologies, with low levels of literacy, and who have been excluded or with serious difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to the State, in particular of a fiscal nature. Administrative modernisation cannot be measured either by the number of legislative measures adopted, by the number of programmes or portals created, as seems to be the idea conveyed here in previous debates by the banks that supported the previous government. Another fundamental factor is the human aspect, the organizational culture of the Public Administration, which has to lose its authoritarian character, inherited from the long years of dictatorship. We must promote a culture of public service, of service to citizens, in which they are treated with equality and in which the public servant fills this role as a server and not authority, of someone who is in a state-of-the-art position above the citizen. For this to be effective, it is also necessary to value these officials of the Public Administration so that they feel dignified and motivated and what happened during the previous Government's legislature is that they have been systematically punished, which does not provide for better performance on the part of public servants. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u145	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u146	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions addressed to me. Very telegraphically, and in reverse order to the questions put, I begin by answering Mr Paulino Ascenção, of the Block on the Left, which he referred to — ironically, I say — the fear of multiple counters, and justifiably, because the history of the program in recent years would instill that idea. But one of the aims of the Government is precisely the creation of the Single Balkans, i.e. the reduction of counters, and therefore simplification, because it must also be taken to the way in which services are presented to users. With regard to the very relevant issue, which raises the question that deburocratization, dematerialization and access by the new technological means should take into account those who have particular difficulties in their access, I would almost refer to the intervention of the Minister of the Presidency and Administrative Modernization in the presentation of the Government Programme, in which the reference to inclusion has meaning. That is to say, this is a problem which will certainly be guarded, because it is a cross-sectional problem throughout the programme. Mr. Paulo Sá, also the greeting and it is clear that I can only endorse the considerations relating to an obvious observation, i.e. the disqualification and attack on the public function that were carried out in the XIX Legislation were in itself demotivating factors of public officials and the implementation of this administrative modernization programme can only be done with a mobilized public administration and that obviously fulfils the social functions of the State. Finally, Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, as it has been, I think that with medium clarity, of my intervention: my purpose on this matter is not to argue; rather, it is to congregate wills. Therefore, I apologize to you for the smile that I could not contain during your intervention on the merits of the previous Government. For moments, I even thought it would be reporting to the government that lasted only 15 days, but I assume it was the previous one. But, honourable Member, I cannot but say that one thing is the implementation of the program of administrative modernization, accompanied by monitoring and scrutiny... That's how it happened with the Simple, with the then State Secretary of Administrative Modernization, Maria Manuel Leitão Marques, and that's how it will happen with the Simple 2016, with the mere rhetorical proclamation of some...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u147	What? Oh, my God! You're distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u148	Mr Leitão Amaro, I apologize for your part to point out that the PSD itself, when it presented draft resolution No 974 / XII, at the end of the Legislature, in its explanatory statement, mentioned precisely that only at that time, in February 2014, it was important to launch the means and instruments for administrative modernization. That is, it is the total confession that during almost all of the legislature, not even that problem would arise! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u149	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u150	I conclude by stressing what is important, which is to bring together the will for administrative modernization, because only it can fulfill the desire to build a more modern country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u151	In the meantime, it's been two years!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u152	For a political statement, Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Law No 52 -A / 2005 ended with vital subsidies and reintegration subsidies for political office holders. The Left Block, since its entry into Parliament in 2000, has fought to finish. They ended in 2005, and so well. However, those who had acquired the right to vital grant, such as the reintegration allowance, before 2005 maintained this royalties. And it was about these royalties and the possibility of their limitation that a group of Members, PS and PSD requested the supervision of the Constitutional Court. For us, Left Block, it is here, much more than rights, unjustifiable privileges. The first sign of privilege is the possibility of accumulating the subsidy with any other income. A former Member or a former Member who has had access to the vital grant before 2005 may accumulate it with the wages of any public or private entity, with a retirement pension or even with any other grant. As soon as he could receive the reintegration allowance even if he was immediately re-entered into his usual professional career. In view of these exceptional circumstances, the Left Block never considered that the law that limited subsidies to beneficiaries with incomes below 2000 € per month was excessive. More: In successive State budgets, the Block proposed that these subsidies simply end. on other occasions, having resorted to the Constitutional Court to stop cuts in pensions or sickness or unemployment benefits, we never respond to cuts in vital subsidies. It is that we have always made an essential distinction between, on the one hand, cuts in essential rights of those who work and, on the other hand, the elimination of extraordinary gifts, attributed to those who have no problems of subsistence but have, indeed, had the power to create their own privileges. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is strictly unacceptable that a special regime exists for former civil servants, which goes beyond the social protection that covers all citizens. A caste that enjoys caste privileges deserves denunciation. And it is not by silent criticism that indifferent hatred is combated against all political representatives. Demagogy fights itself by ending the privilege, because it is a mistake. Therefore, the Left Block has never complied with a law made to benefit the legislator. On the other hand, there were those who did not give up in maintaining this « outrageous » privilege, even after the pension allocation was closed in 2005. It is particularly unacceptable that some PSD Members — of the same PSD who ended up with the pension supplements of CP, Carris and Metro workers, negotiated by the State with workers with very low pensions, workers who were removed on the initiative of the State in personnel reduction processes — those who tried to restore the fullness of the vital grants in payment. It is true that the full replacement of grants had already been attempted in the debate of the 2015 State Budget, which was then proposed by PS and PSD Members. The attempt was only stopped because the Left Block then brought the theme to this Plenary. And then, in view of everyone and on the eve of an election campaign, there was a clash of shame and the proposal was withdrawn. But in the recent appeal to the Constitutional Court, what is more impressive is that, for some of the applicants, this was the first time: Members and Members who have lost repeated opportunities to submit appeals to the Constitutional Court when contributions were at stake mobilised by the untouchable life grants. We have seen PSD Members, who voted here for the cut-off of pensions consisting of discounts and not of privilege, running in shock to the Constitutional Court to end the limitation of vital subsidies to beneficiaries with incomes above 2000 € per month. With the decision of the Court, the application for supervision which has so long been attempted to hide has become public. The Constitutional Court requires the full replacement of grants, invoking the defence of acquired rights. at other times, he did not have the same criterion and did not do it— unfortunately, we say. The pension supplements of the transport reformers who will now be restored — justice that had to be done and that we will vote tomorrow — were not equally appreciated. We're so sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u155	in the Left Block, we believe that the state must always be a good person and the acquired rights are to respect. Submitting to democratic criticism and opinion the actions of the Constitutional Court is the only way to truly respect its decisions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u156	But something else has to be said. Parliament did what it could to end the subsidies. They ended in 2005, and so well. The rights acquired remain with each and every party. This is no longer a problem of the law, because the law is no longer in force, nor is it a constitutional problem, because the decision has been made. Now, it's a political issue. The Block and its former Members, starting with those who had the right to reintegration allowance, never claimed it. We reject privileges. We voted to end and refuse to benefit those who remain. Each party, each of us decides on what is law, but also on its conduct, on coherence in politics. The political assessment of those who have decided to go to the Constitutional Court to defend the privilege, this is up to the people, the vast majority who do not know what privilege is, because it is of another condition. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u157	Five were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. Mr Jorge Costa informs the Bureau that he will, together, respond first to two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen and, then, to three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. So you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u158	Mr President, Mr Jorge Costa, first of all, I wanted to say that the Greens have always been against the vital subsidies for political office holders. Not being new, I think it is also important to mention it here again. And I remember, in this regard, what we said in 2014 when we discussed the State Budget for 2015. We began by recording the attitude of the PSD and PS for withdrawing the proposal that intended to restore vital subsidies, but we regretted that this withdrawal occurred only after the full vote on that proposal. Anyway, we said at the time that good sense seemed to have prevailed, even if it was late. It happens that, by the way, good sense only prevailed here at the plenary. But it did not prevail when a group of Members, the PSD and the PS, decided, not to say socapa but, at least not publicly, to request the Constitutional Court's assessment of the constitutionality of the norm imposing the condition of remedies. And, as we mentioned in 2014, this request was above all a provocation. It was a provocation to the retirees of Carris and Metro, it was a provocation to the pensioners in general, it was a provocation to the employees of the Public Administration who have their salaries frozen since 2009 and it was also a provocation to the unemployed who had no access to any social support. This is what we said in 2014 and this is what we reaffirm here today. Mr Jorge Costa, as you know, none of the Members of the Greens have subscribed to the request to monitor the constitutionality of this rule. Therefore, we do not « give to this petition». But we subscribe to other requests for supervision. We subscribe to the request to monitor the cuts in the holiday allowance and the Christmas allowance, which the former Government, PSD / CDS, intended to impose on the Portuguese. We subscribe to the request to monitor cuts in wages and pensions. We subscribe to the request for supervision of cuts in the reforms of workers in the state business sector. All this works from the previous government, PSD / CDS. Now, Mr Jorge Costa, I would like to say the following: whenever the interests and rights of the general public were involved, The Greens said « present», and they will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u159	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u160	I will finish, Mr. President. But to the immorality of this nature, the Greens will always say 'no'. Now, the Constitutional Court has brought the measure back without the requirement of any condition of appeal. In our view, this is a question, more than of a constitutional nature, of a moral nature. Nevertheless, since the President of the Constitutional Court has also said that the regime is not blocked, the question I put to you, Mr Jorge Costa, is this: for the Left Block, what legal solutions now seem to be that, while respecting constitutionality, they allow morale to be restored? [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u161	To request clarification, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u162	Mr President, Mr Jorge Costa, to make it very clear, the position of the PSD Parliamentary Group is that which was expressed in the proposed State Budget Act for 2015, is no other. Therefore, it is not worth creating ghosts and trying to confuse public opinion, in order to say that the PSD has this position in front of it and has another one I don't know where. The PSD position is known. Secondly, Mr President, on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, we do not have two weights and two measures. We respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, even when we do not agree with them. And we do not, as is the case with the Left Block, candidates on the street, such as the presidential candidate of your party, defame the Constitutional Court, blaming a decision when it does not agree with it. That, with the Social Democratic Party, Mr. Deputies, does not happen. Therefore, I believe that its intervention was directed, above all at this pre-budgetal moment, at the Socialist Party's bench. The Socialist Party has been in a deafening silence on this matter. [[PS protests.]] Therefore, the Socialist Party now has - together with the two parliamentary groups who, as they say, support the policies of the Government - to find a solution to this problem in the next State budget. It is the responsibility of the Socialist Party, it is the responsibility of this government, it is the responsibility of the parliamentary groups that support this government to solve this problem. But what we do not do, Mr President, is, on the one hand, say well to the Constitutional Court, when this, as someone has already said, "appears" to the most appropriate part, and, on the other, to blame, to defame the Constitutional Court, when, for some reason, the decisions of this Court do not please us. That's not what we do. And I must tell you, Mr President, that I am tired of the fact that the Left Block elects, as the only electoral principle, as the only political principle that governs its activity, a populism, of which, frankly, Mr President, the Portuguese people are already tired. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u163	To reply, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u164	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, we know the Constitutional Court. Together they have beaten him at the door several times to defend the rights which the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic foresees and that they have, as never before, been raped and raped over the past four years, under the governance of the right, which, today, discovered the wonders of the street of the century. On the specific issue which I have referred to in my speech to the outline that remains today, which is the political outline of the issue and which concerns the behaviour of each and every political agent who has to respond to citizenship for their conduct and how they relate to the privileges that, unjustly and in an archaic manner, remain in our order. And if today the Constitutional Court closes this issue with the sentence it stressed, it is also true that, on our part, the judgment on the need for this kind of privilege remains the same. Thus, on the side of the Left Block, the relationship with these same privileges will continue to be the one we have always had, which is the refusal of any absurd privilege, as this is. Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, there is no one in the country who does not remember the discourse of the PSD, the CDS and the Government — before having now discovered the wonders of the Constitutional Court, on the street of the century — when the Constitutional Court and its role in the Portuguese constitutional ordering was presented as an excrescence, as an archaic waste, as a blocking force.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u165	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u166	We remember Passos Coelho saying that the country could not live on a permanent constitutional standstill. Of course, the salaries of the public service were concerned, the social state was concerned, the pensions constituted by worker discounts and, for them and for them, there is no constitution of the Portuguese Republic that can be used to them, and the Constitutional Court was the most!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u167	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u168	But today, as it is about maintaining absurd privileges that have been assigned and that remain today, that the Constitutional Court has decided to keep in force, the applause of the right benches is there,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u169	No, no. That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u170	...the applause for the Constitutional Court is there and everyone can see the contrast. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u171	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u172	Mr President, Mr Jorge Costa, I believe that the essential thing here is that the substantive issues are highlighted. The CFP has always opposed the existence of vital grants for political office holders, voted against its introduction in 1984, in this House, always defended its revocation and voted in favour of it, obviously when, in 2005, this House decided to end the vital subsidies. In view of this, it should be said that, of course, we disagree with the decision taken by the Constitutional Court concerning the constant rule of the State budget, whose supervision was raised to it, and also that the only alternative proposal to the proposal presented in this House, during the discussion of the State budget, was that of the CFP Parliamentary Group. But this is not what is now under discussion. What really matters right now is to point out our always disagreement with the existence of vital subsidies. But it must also be said that the decisions of the Constitutional Court, as the honourable Member said, are obviously subject to criticism and democratic opinion—it was the expression which he used. Many decisions taken by the Constitutional Court had our disagreement, they had! , and we have manifested it whenever we disagreed with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but we have always respected it. However, when the Constitutional Court disagrees, it does not mean that the Constitutional Court is insulted, that the Constitutional Court is guilty. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] If the gentlemen. Members will let me speak, I will say that we criticized this when, in heated debates we had here in the last legislature, we criticized positions taken by PSD and CDS officials regarding the decisions of the Constitutional Court on State budgets.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u173	I don't know how it governs itself against the Constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u174	I remember a heated discussion with Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho when she publicly argued that there should be legal sanctions against the judges of the Constitutional Court. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u175	Anyone with any memory to remember-CL will remember it! But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we also criticise that there are two pesos and two measures before this decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u176	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u177	I'll be done right away, Mr. President. We believe that people with political responsibilities cannot describe this decision as shameful, because they do not agree with it, or say that the Constitutional Court is an elite college that decides on its own. As we have criticised in the past positions which we consider inadequate in relation to the Constitutional Court, we also criticise positions recently taken by political leaders who have acted in a manner that we regard as democratically inadequate before this decision of the Constitutional Court. We cannot have two weights and two measures here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u178	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u179	Mr President, Mr Jorge Costa intended to bring here the matter of subsidies for political office holders and the recent Constitutional Court judgment No 3 / 2016. I must tell you, Mr President, that no serious approach to this matter can erupt the fact that it has been a government of the Socialist Party to propose the end of the subsidies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was a bill by a government of the Socialist Party, approved by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2015, which originated, as you know, Law No 52 / 2005, already mentioned in this House. Therefore, Mr. Deputies, these subsidies ended up in the positions whose mandates expired in 2005 and there have been no such privileges since then to use their terminology. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u180	But, I must say, to feed the idea that the decision of the Constitutional Court, in some way, restored these benefits is a false and demagogic idea that cannot fail to be denounced. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it is true that the honourable Member referred to the high court, which was now not a matter of law, it was a matter handed over to the courts, it was a judicial decision. Now, being a judicial decision, there is a double consideration that I would like to make: firstly, it is not up to me, it is not up to any of us to defend the Constitutional Court's judgment, since Mr President is not particularly skilled at doing so ;... [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u181	... then and above all, because the principles of the rule of law impose the principle of separation of powers and respect for the independence of the Constitutional Court, as in all courts. I must tell you that I respect the Constitutional Court when I agree with its decisions in the same way as respect when I disagree with its decisions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u182	And the last thing I would like to know, as Mr António Filipe has just mentioned, was whether Mr Jorge Costa intends to replicate the deplorable position of the PSD then, by the voice of his then Vice-President, who, with regard to the disagreement expressed by the Constitutional Court, proposes, including, to consider legal sanctions, saying that if the judges did not accept criticism, they did not have the conditions to exercise the position. This is not a way of respecting the independence of the Constitutional Court and, therefore, honourable Member, I ask: what criticism does the Constitutional Court make? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u183	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u184	Mr President, Mr Jorge Costa, we are going straight to the bottom. The CDS is against the existence of vital pensions. He voted on the suspension made by the previous Government in the previous majority. He did not sign the proposal for a replacement, he did not agree with that replacement. It strengthened him to be withdrawn at the 2015 State Budget, and that same proposal was withdrawn. Since we are in the matter of calling on the memory, I remember that it was precisely the previous majority and the previous government that ended the vital pensions, which suspended them, which, moreover, held up to this decision of the Constitutional Court. Mr President, speaking of this, it is not surprising that the Left Block has now been thrown to the Constitutional Court when, in the past four years, it has made the Constitutional Court the alpha and the omega of your policy. VV. They said that anyone who criticized a decision of the Constitutional Court was going against democratic institutions and the Constitution. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u185	Where's that left block? Oh, my God! Now that you have found that, after all, in a democracy, you can even criticize any ruling body, until you can criticize the Constitutional Court, until you can disagree, you have passed a sort of « offended virgins », whenever you speak of the Constitutional Court, for a muscular opposition against the Constitutional Court. So, Mr President, let's talk about everything, and I would like to ask you a few questions. If we consider vital grants an unjustified privilege of a certain class, are Mr. and the Left Block available or not to go to everything? To go, for example, to private reform systems, such as the Constitutional Court? Is the Left Block available or not available to present, or to agree, or to approve this proposal? Would you or would you not put an end to these systems which, in themselves, are different from those in force for the rest of Portugal? That is what we want to hear from the Left Block: « yes» or « no» if they are in the position of « offended virgin» or move to a muscular opposition. That is why, Mr President, what I want to say to you is that it was based on your interpretation of the principle of trust, which was often criticized by this bench, which you so often resorted to in the Constitutional Court, and — it is true — have won maturity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u186	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u187	I shall conclude, Mr President. With this position of the Left Block one perceives what is the Left Block: when it does, it defends one thing; when it no longer does, it criticizes others and, more than that, insults others. Attitudes remain for those who practice them! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u188	To reply, Mr Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u189	Mr President, it is curious to find in this House so many voices that recognize the democratic right to criticism of the Constitutional Court as an institution and so few who are willing to recognize the relevance of the criticism when it is effectively exercised. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] If anyone expresses the disagreement with a decision of the Constitutional Court — and it was the case of the candidate for the presidentials supported by the Left Block, Marisa Matias, she distinguishes herself from having presented a clear position of disagreement with the result of a decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u190	Insulting!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u191	It was a different, undisturbed position, not a committed silence, as was that of other candidates supported by the parties that have established and benefited over the years from these privileges.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u192	And that we cut!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u193	And that difference makes all the difference. That is why, more than the reasons for our disagreement with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which we announce without pruritus, what is on the table today is the motivation of whom he appealed to and of whom he addressed to him to restore in full, without any reason that sustains him, and we are talking about people with monthly incomes above 2000 €, who do not suffer any kind of economic deficiency, an unjustified privilege corresponding to the exercise of the legislative function in the past. This is a privilege which the Assembly of the Republic has decided to cease and it is this request for supervision which is so disturbing to the authors themselves, some of whom have tried to 'pass through', ignored, as to the authorship of it. It's this awkward thing that we wanted to bring here today. The Left Block has a clear position. Here, as in other locations, as in the electoral campaign for the presidency of the Republic, we have taken a clear position, which the Portuguese have used to find on this bench. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u194	You have the floor to make a political statement, Mr Abel Baptista.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Rule is not to reverse. Rule is programming. To rule is to build, to have projects for the future. That's the way it should be. With the current government this does not happen and the destructive and reversal fury is a mania, mania that also arrived in agriculture and the rural world. It is a serious mistake for the current Government to suspend the reprogramming of the Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 ( PDR 2020 ). It is a serious mistake because it seriously harms farmers, agriculture, the rural world, the national economy and employment. Portugal, in September 2015, committed itself internally and externally to reprogramming the RDP 2020. The PSD/CDS government had agriculture and rural development as a priority. The Portuguese Government has decided to strengthen the agricultural funds and has committed itself to Brussels, requesting the reprogramming of the RDP. The Socialist Party and the current Government have a commitment to the extreme left and devalue farmers, agriculture and the rural world. We, CDS and PSD, had a commitment to farmers, agriculture, the rural world, the economy and employment. Everyone makes their choices, unfortunately, choices are not neutral and prejudice Portugal, in the case of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u196	We commit ourselves (internal and externally) to strengthening the RDP with EUR 40 million per year, ensuring the total payment of the agri-environmental measures, which had extraordinary membership, and the investment resulting from the applications. We had a commitment to investment. Instead, the Socialist Party and the Government decided not to put the necessary funds to ensure the investment of farmers. The fact is that the Socialist Party and the Government do not give the same value to agriculture and the rural world that we have given, and we continue to give. [[CDS-PP applause.]] With the suspension of the reprogramming that the Government has made, it is necessary to explain to the sector who will lose the money: if the agri-environmental measures, if the investment projects. The Socialist Party says one thing in campaign and makes another very different in government. The candidate for Mr Capoulas Santos, in September last year, when confronted with the reprogramming of the PDR 2020, said that if the PS formed government, he would pay bill—I repeat, he would gladly pay invoice! —... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u197	... of the EUR 200 million of the reprogramming presented by the PSD/CDS Government in Brussels. But now Minister for Agriculture Capoulas Santos has come to say that this will not be his reprogramming, without explaining how he will make it different and what his options will be. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We also see that agriculture is not the priority of the Minister. It is appropriate to say, Mr. President and Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, look at what I say, don't look at what I do!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u199	The Socialist Party and the Government do not give political weight to the sector. In fact, this is a tradition that was not broken at a time when the Socialist Party broke so many traditions. That agriculture was not a priority for the PS we already knew, was said by the socialist activist Capoulas Santos in 2014 when he was excluded from the lists of the Socialist Party to the European Parliament in an interview.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u200	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u201	In order to justify their non-inclusion in those lists, he confessed, and I quote: « They told me that the area in which I work...», agriculture, «... does not constitute a priority». With us agriculture has been, is and will always be a priority. [[CDS-PP applause.]] With us, the RDP was executed at 100 % and within the deadlines ; with you, the Socialist Party, the execution was 28 % in four of the nine years of the Programme. With us, the plot was corrected ; with you, the Socialist Party, Portugal paid fines every year to Brussels, which reached more than 235 million euros. with us, Portugal did not return money to Brussels, nor were fines applied for non-compliance. with us, we strengthened funds in agriculture, for example in 2011 where we put EUR 50 million more than the PS had placed in the State Budget ; with you, the Socialist Party, there is a suspension of reprogramming and farmers will lose support either in agri-environmental measures or in investment. with us, a good negotiation of the CAP ( Common Agricultural Policy) has been made for Portugal. In 2005 with negotiations by the Socialist Party, with fewer countries and more budgets, Portugal lost 12 %. In 2014, when there were more countries and fewer Community budgets, Portugal had a reduction of only 8 % and improved its relative position in the CAP's funds. [[CDS-PP applause.]] With us, more 71 new export markets have been opened for the agri-food sector, enabling the annual increase of exports, which has always been greater than in the general economy. with us, it was possible to renegotiate with Brussels the financing of Alqueva, obtaining EUR 200 million from the cohesion funds, releasing this amount from PRODER ( Rural Development Programme) for other agricultural investments. With us, agriculture had political weight ; with you, with the PS, it does not have. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We conveyed trust to farmers; the Socialist Party and the Government transmit instability and fear to farmers and investors. We were negotiating and getting money for agriculture; the Socialist Party and the Government stop negotiating, stop reprogramming, just reverse and destroy. The current Minister of Agriculture was the Prime Minister of this Government to capitulate for his inability to negotiate, internally and externally, to guarantee the necessary funds to the sector. The fear of many farmers is confirmed that over the years they told us that they could invest with us because they were sure that there would be support, they could work because they knew that the support was paid within the time frame, they could produce because they opened markets, they could risk because they felt in the government and in the ministry a partner. With the return of the socialists, they fear that delays in payments will return, reductions in support, uncertainty in decisions, instability in the sector. Unfortunately, all your fears are being verified. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u202	Mr President, there are three Members who are registered to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. Question : How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u203	Individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u204	So Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u205	Mr. President, Mr. Abel Baptista, in 2015 the Ministry of Agriculture of the responsibility of the then Minister of Assumption Cristas committed almost all of the funds for agri-food measures by 2020. It is this pre-election irresponsibility that the current government has to face today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u206	Oh, yeah? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u207	Mr. Abel Baptista once again came here with this argument—because it is already the second time that I hear...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u208	You have to get used to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u209	You have to hear 20!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u210	...and I hear it - always with pleasure - and continues without answering the question that I have asked you, and that I will put again. Mr Abel Baptista and his Parliamentary Group argue that no amount of EUR 200 million should be withdrawn for the reprogramming of investments in agriculture. Question : Where do these EUR 200 million come from? If the CDS were government today, where would I get that money?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u211	Where we always went!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u212	to the health budget? to the education budget? Reforms and pensions, how did you do for four years? Was that where the CDS was going to get these 200 million euros over the next few years? It was the answer to this question, which I have already put in committee, that you have willingly escaped, but I do put it again: where would the CDS look for the EUR 200 million? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u213	It was written, at no time, to ask for clarification, another Member, whose entry the Bureau accepted. however, I remember that the entries should always be made until the end of the speech of the speaker. To reply, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u214	Mr President, Mr Matias, first of all, Mr Matias, let me say, you are confusing some things, because we are not talking about agri-food support measures but rather agricultural support measures. This is what we are talking about. [[Don't study!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u215	In politics, especially when it comes to governance, the decision is a political option.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u216	What's yours?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u217	It is a decision that is taken in a certain sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u218	What's yours?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u219	in the case of the CDS, we took measures to create jobs, reformulation of the economy, increase wealth and increase production. in your case, the Left Block normally takes measures to restore free travel to CP employees ( Trains of Portugal ), for the reversal of public transport concessions,... [[BE's protests.]] ... for service payments, which will, in the end, be paid by taxpayers who, for the most part, do not even use them. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It's a left block option, it's not CDS option! The option of the CDS is for production, economics, rural development, agriculture. This is effectively the option, and these EUR 200 million, if the CDS were in government, would be in the Investment Programme, would be in the State Budget. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u220	Mr Mauricio Marques has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u221	Mr President, Mr. Abel Baptista, I would like to congratulate you on bringing such an important and current issue to the Plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. The action of the current government could compromise the development of a sector that in recent years has been a source of inspiration in terms of growth and innovation. Recent published news may be misleading the legitimate expectations of thousands of farmers and farmers who have become accustomed to seeing in the State an ally, a person of good and fulfilling his obligations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u222	In fact, the reprogramming of PDR 2020, announced by the current government, with a possible decrease in national money from the announced reinforcement, could have serious consequences for such an important sector for the country. It may therefore involve losses to our productive sector and to our territorial and environmental cohesion. The reduction of targeted support for agri-environmental measures, those that are friendly to the environment and which support the viability of many small and medium-sized farmers, may imply the early conclusion of these measures, which would in turn mean that by 2020 there would be no financial availability for new applications for these measures. It may also mean that the current government does not value the agricultural sector, creating obstacles to the growth of agri-food exports and secondary to the country as a whole. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at risk is too serious. A government that announced the end of austerity cannot allow agriculture to be the only activity to suffer cuts, those that would reduce the value of public investment in the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u223	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u224	I'm done now, Mr. President. Can the government, which is available to increase non-reproductive expenditure, not add to the RDP 40 million by 2020? Oh, my God! Mr President, I would like to ask whether or not the policy of the previous Government, which introduced greater security and predictability in agricultural activity and its investments through Community payments in time and time, was essential for the economic results of the sector. Mr President, what mechanism is it advocating for the continued increase in investment and agri-food exports? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u225	To reply, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u226	Mr President, thank you very much, Mr Maurício Marques, for your questions. In fact, over the past four years Portuguese agriculture has become not only in the Government's priorities, but also in the priorities of the economy. The agri-food complex was growing every year at a higher rate than the growth of the economy in general. Exports have increased and imports have decreased; the employment rate and the number of new farmers installed, especially several young farmers, bringing new energy and new dynamics to the sector, decreasing the age level of agricultural labour in Portugal, which not only values agriculture as it gives it a new dynamic, which was what it wanted. In fact, it was part of our Government programme, and we cannot help but defend it permanently, that by 2020 we would achieve the balance, in terms of current balance, between imports and exports with regard to the agricultural sector, and this was happening at a higher level than what we had originally planned.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u227	You were checking how? Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u228	So that was the way we had found to continue investing in agriculture. This was the way we used, not only in the negotiation of the new CAP, but also in the negotiation of the 2020 RDP, to achieve that there was only a very slight decrease compared to what was initially planned, and this was due to the work done by the previous Government, together with the Ministries of Finance and Agriculture and with the support of the Prime Minister, which is not currently happening. Therefore, we fear that there will be a significant fall in agricultural activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u230	Mr João Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u231	Mr President, Mr Baptista, I begin by saying that the CFP Parliamentary Group will not follow the options that will reduce the funds for agriculture, as the PSD/CDS Government did not accompany, which you supported when, after taking possession, you reduced EUR 150 million in the PRODER for forest policies. He said here that the CDS and the PSD strengthened the funds for agriculture, but it was the CDS who, at the hearing of the Minister of Agriculture this week, said that there were, after all, no budgetary or provisional instruments to support this amendment. It was the CDS who said at the hearing that this increase was based on a conversation between the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture of the former Government. It was this "troika" that decided to increase the funds but had no instruments and no supports. It was the CDS itself who said it in this committee hearing. Mr President, I would also like you to tell us whether it is true that, before the elections, the Ministry of Agriculture, of the CDS, kept the applications open permanently, exhausting the funds available in the agri-environmental measures not only for 2016 but also for the entire Programme, putting commitments in the implementation of these programmes. That is what has been said and you have also confirmed that it was a good measure to keep the applications open. But the honourable Member came here with the speech which, now, the right one used to use: "It was all very good and you are now ruining everything! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I would like to remind you of the good that is in some sectors what you have done, what has happened to you. What happened to you in the Ministry was that one, and only one, confederation commanded throughout the Ministry. What you did in four years was make 100 000 jobs disappear in the agricultural sector. What you did was put the dairy sector now going through enormous difficulties; only 8 % of farms disappeared in 2015 and milk producers have been selling below production costs for a long time. What you have done is to put the pig farming sector today out of sight, as we can hear from the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea. So now we have a self-sufficient level of 60 % when we have already had more than 90 %, and they tell us that within a short time we will be able to reach 30 %, because in this sector too, if we are selling below production costs. Both in one sector and in another the large distribution continues to suffocate prices, it continues to import to lower prices in Portugal and you have failed to manage the large distribution. In particular, they failed to change how the value is distributed throughout the chain, where the large distribution is 75 % of the value of the agri-food chain. What you have done was to force the smaller farmers to sign up for finance. What you have done was to allow intensive, superintensive olives and transgenic maize to access agri-environmental measures, which are an important support for the smaller farmers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u232	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u233	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, Mr President, you cannot confuse the success of agribusiness with the overall success of agriculture in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u234	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u235	And that's what you guys do. The agribusiness, which they have supported so much, may have some success, because agriculture, in general, unfortunately, has many difficulties. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u236	To reply, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u237	Mr President, Mr Ramos, in his questions, reveals some ignorance and, to some extent, some ignorance, with regard to the questions which he asks us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u238	Make it clear, Mr. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u239	First, it reveals some ignorance...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u240	It's ignorance, it's! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u241	...that we came to say that in 2015 we opened the applications for agri-environmental applications and that we exhausted them! Don't you know that agri-environmental people have to have a five-year candidacy? It's for five years that the application has to be made. So, either we were doing a little candidacy just for a few months or, then, we had to do the way it had to be done: for five years! And it had to be done for five years. So this only reveals ignorance of how this is done! [[BE's protests.]] It also reveals some lack of knowledge, because our satisfaction in terms of supply, in the case of pig farming, is not 60 %, it is a little bit more, it is 80 %. It's 80%!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u242	That's not what's said!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u243	It reveals some ignorance because it was exactly during the PSD/CDS government that a self-regulation and understanding platform was created to have distribution along the chain. It was the PARCA (Relations Monitoring Platform in the Agri-Food Chain ), and it was created by us, never before had it been done!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u244	Results?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u245	The results? The results are still incipient, but they are already some and are being taken advantage of. By now, which says that 150 million euros were removed from the forest sector, perhaps it would have been agreed to ask for some clarification from the Socialist Party, who drew the PRODER, who drew it wrong. These EUR 150 million have never been used for the forest, but we took them and made them available in agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u246	And the forest is still burning!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u247	You, who is even Mr Alentejo, perhaps, failed to tell him that we were able to reschedule the issue of Alqueva's investments and get 200 million euros to the cohesion fund, releasing 200 million euros from PRODER for agriculture, to invest in other sectors. And you forgot to say it. It should also at times say something about this matter. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] On the other hand, I should like to remind you that, as far as milk is concerned, at the time we were government, direct aid payments of EUR 82 per head of milk cow were made and more EUR 4 million of Community support for the milk sector was obtained. I hope now to see what the Socialist Party will achieve by the year 2016, for the milk sector, with its support. Let's see what she's gonna get. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u248	Mr António Borges has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u249	Mr President, I naturally begin by welcoming the whole House and telling Mr. Abel Baptista that — as indeed the CDS has been used to us — is somehow in manoeuvres and, above all, taking advantage of some misinformation campaign, which is in its origin, to try to pass a false idea and probably achieve objectives that have to do with its own party and that have nothing to do with Portuguese agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture has said repeatedly that the Socialist Party will not invest in agriculture, but on the contrary, it will support even more small agriculture and young farmers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, Mr President, I remember here what my predecessor's words are in some way in the Committee on Agriculture. He said from the previous Minister of Agriculture that she was adept of the great and beautiful. What happened at the PDR 2020 gave a big hole in the public accounts, but it has nothing beautiful what the former Minister of Conceição Cristos did. [[Conception?Oh, my God!]] [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u250	I would like to say that everything that is at the root of this controversy has to do with a political use which Mr. Abel Batista has tried to make a responsible decision by the current Minister of Agriculture. Capoululas Santos decided to suspend the reprogramming of the PDR 2020 that his predecessor had sent to Brussels last September—we are talking about a time of pre-election—and that it would pay the Portuguese State 200 million euros without the government taking any decision in this direction, as is indeed required.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u251	You've reached the time, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u252	As everyone will remember, it was a decision in the full electoral campaign: 200 million without any budget coverage and without any decision by a minister. This, in fact, is absolutely symptomatic and exemplifying of what the previous government was,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u253	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u254	... above all the government that created the law of commitments. The question I would like to leave to Mr Abel Baptista is: what was the decision of the Government or the order of any government minister, including the Minister of Finance, to ensure national participation and participation in such a decision? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u255	Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u256	Mr President, Mr António Borges, thank you very much for your question, because it gives me the opportunity to remind you of some questions, namely a very important and very serious one: you are asking for help from the former Government for not having political power at the present time! [[PS protests.]] What you are asking is that there has been a decision by the former Government to authorize the current government to reprogramming which it now has no political power to do. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] That's exactly what you're asking for. Look, you're making a statement here that doesn't look like yours, Mr António Borges. Doesn't look like you! I haven't known him for a long time, but I've heard about you and even thought I had a little more care when I was talking. Are you here to say that you know no decision, no order, of any minister of the former government? Oh, my God! Look, Mr, you are here, next to me, Mrs Cristas — and I now take advantage of it to say that it is not Conceição —... [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] ... that it was the one who made the reprogramming request to Brussels, in particular to the European Agriculture Commissioner, because she was the Minister of Agriculture who had to do so. So, look, maybe it's not so nice of you to say that. Has the honourable Member welcomed the fact that the Minister for Agriculture has stopped reprogramming? Oh, my God! Did you welcome the fact that Portuguese agriculture has been prevented from having more than 200 million euros for development, not for expenditure, but for investment? Oh, my God! Look, if I were you, perhaps, in some time I would start to be ashamed to defend these decisions of this minister, as many of your comrades today are ashamed to have defended the decisions of Minister Jaime Silva. As you know, many today are ashamed to have defended positions of the then Minister Jaime Silva, and you may come to see the same thing happen to him. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u257	Look, honourable Member, there is something I am proud of: I have been in this Parliament for 10 years, going on the way of 11, and no farmer ever told me that I was defending the interests of my party, all of them told me that I was defending here the interests of Portuguese agriculture and farmers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u258	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u259	As far as manoeuvres are concerned, I must say that manoeuvres are what many farmers have to do to be able to pay their bills by the end of the month. And when they receive the support they are entitled to do not receive any favor, they only receive what is due them. I hope that the Socialist Party will also respect, as we always do, with them. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u260	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the political statements.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u261	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u262	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u263	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u264	On what grounds, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u265	We would like to know what was the authorization that the Minister for Finance...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u266	Mr President, is it for questioning the Bureau or is it for questioning Mr. Abel Baptista?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u267	It is for questioning the Bureau and Mr. Abel Baptista.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u268	No, sir. It's not the same thing, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u269	Mr President, it is only to ask what was the authorization that the Minister for Finance was obliged to fulfil this commitment and who authorized the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u270	Mr President, you will have an opportunity to ask the question at some other time, and I will not return the floor to continue a debate that has already ceased. To announce legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau, I give the floor to Mrs Emília Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions 99 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the complete removal of hazardous waste deposited in the former coal mines of São Pedro da Cova, Gondomar, and the measures to correct and contain environmental impacts on the site ( PSD ), and 100 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrates 31 January as National Sergeant Day ( PCP ), which falls to 3. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-21.u272	Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will be tomorrow for 10 hours with the following agenda: point one, joint discussion of draft resolution No 67 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the conduct of an external and independent audit of Banif, the evolution of the value of the Bank and the recapitalisation measures by the State ( January 2013 ), the resolution of the Bank and the sale of its activity to Santander Totta ( December 2015 ) ( PSD ) and parliamentary investigations ( 1 / XIII. ( a ) — Possible parliamentary inquiry into Banif's management, the procedure leading to the application of the resolution and alienation of its activity and its consequences ( PSD ), 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a parliamentary commission to investigate the proceedings leading to the sale and resolution of the Banco Internacional do Funchal ( Banif ) ( PS, BE, CCP and Os Verde ) and 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the management and process that led to the sale and resolution of the International Bank of Funchal ( Banif ) ( CDS-PP ) ; point two, joint discussion of the projects of lein. 56 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends access to invalidity and old-age pensions for workers of the National Uranio Company and reserves the right to an emerging compensation for occupational disease or death ( BE ), 53 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime for access to invalidity and old age pensions by workers of the National Uranio Company, SA, providing for the right to death or sickness compensation ( CFP ) and 60 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amended by Decree-Law No 28 / 2005 of 10 February 2005 on the Legal Regime of Access to Pensions for Invalidity and Speed by Workers of the National Uranio Company ( UNE ), and establishes the right to compensation in case of occupational disease or death ( The Greens ) ; point three, joint discussion of the projects of lein. 67 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the deadlines and criteria for the formation of application of plant protection products ( First amendment to Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April regulating the distribution, sale and application of plant protection products for professional use and adjuvants of plant protection products and defining the monitoring procedures for the use of plant protection products by transposing Directive 2009 / 128 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October establishing a framework for action at Community level for the sustainable use of pesticides and repealing Law No 10 / 93 of 6 April and Decree-Law No 173 / 2005 of 21 October) ( BE) ( 54 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the deadlines laid down in Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April regulating the distribution, sale and application of plant protection products ( PCP ) and 103 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April regulating the distribution, sale and application of plant protection products for professional use and adjuvants of plant protection products and defines the monitoring procedures for the use of plant protection products (PAN) ; and, point four, statutory votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 21 minutes.]]
