ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities opening the galleries. Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary of the Bureau, has the floor to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u2	The second amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2007 of 5 February 2007 which establishes the citizenship card and governs its issue and use, the first amendment to Law No 37 / 2014 of 26 June 2014 establishing an alternative and voluntary system for the authentication of citizens at the portals and websites of the Public Administration called the Mobile Digital Key and the sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 83 / 2000 of 11 May approving the legal regime for the granting and issuing of passports, which goes down to 1. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission ; drafts of lein.o 255 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — establishes measures to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime by prohibiting or limiting commercial or professional relations or occasional transactions with entities based in offshore centres or non-cooperating offshore centres ( CFP ), 256 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defines the terms in which any company is considered resident for tax purposes, ensuring that its income is taxed in Portugal ( PCP ), 257 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increases tax rates for financial operations to entities subject to a clearly more favourable tax system under the terms of the stamp tax ( PCP ), 258 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increases income tax rates and transfers to entities subject to clearly more favourable tax schemes under the IRC ( CFP ), 259 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increases income tax rates and transfers to entities subject to clearly more favourable tax schemes under the IRS ( CFP ), 260 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Change the conditions under which a country, region or territory may be considered to be clearly more favourable tax regime ( CFP ), 261 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Bans cash payments above three thousand euros ( PS ), 262 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Bans the issue of securities to the carrier ( PS ), 263 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — lays down rules for payments made in cash ( CDS-PP ), 264 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July establishing the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from the national territory ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 265 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the inclusion of the vegetarian option in meals in public canteens ( BE) ; draft resolutions 357 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Proposals for measures to comply with the elimination of architectural barriers provided for in Decree-Law No 163 / 2006 of 8 August ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 358 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Students with special educational needs in higher education ( PS ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 359 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Evaluation of the special process for the Revitalisation of companies and individuals ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 360 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee to study and promote a reform of the Portuguese public social security system ( PSD ), 361 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of 35 hours to individual employment contracts of employees employed in the Public Administration ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 362 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends measures to increase the coordination of European action in the area of tax transparency and the fight against tax evasion ( CDS-PP ), 363 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends consideration of the creation of a central register of securities in the context of the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 ( CDS-PP ) and 364 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the application of 35 hours per week to all employees in the Public Administration ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission. Mr President, we also have an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the replacement of Article 5 (2) and (3) ( a ). the Statute of the Deputies, of Deputies Carla Tavares ( PS ), electoral circle of Aveiro, by Inês Dias Lamego, with effect from 8 June, including, until 13 July 2016, that it is important to vote immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we get on the agenda. I would like to leave a few brief words about the date of 3 June 2016. In fact, last Friday, 40 years of the Republic Assembly's Parliament was signed, leaving the first free legislative elections. Also on that day 40 years of the preparation of paragraph 1 of the Official Journal of Parliament, the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Mota Pinto's proposal was unanimously agreed in good time so that the representative body of all Portuguese people would be called the Assembly of the Republic. over these 40 years, the pages of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic have recorded the great progress of democracy. These pages bear witness to the pluralism and diversity of social and political flows represented in the democratic Parliament. In contrast to what happened in the dictatorship, Parliament has in fact come to have « much to deal with ». Since the discussion of legislative initiatives, the monitoring of the acts of government and administration, intensive political debates have been held around the Government Programmes, the revisions of the Constitution, the debates of the State budgets and the structural laws of our regime. in these 40 years, the country and the world have changed a lot and the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic has witnessed and accompanied these changes. The Diário has therefore not ceased to monitor technological developments and since September 2003 it has been published exclusively in electronic format and made available on Parliament's website and can be consulted free of charge and without reservation by all citizens. It was another step towards strengthening the transparency and citizen scrutiny of representative institutions. Finally, I would like to leave you a small fragment of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, of the words of the then President of the Assembly of the Republic, Vasco da Gama Fernandes, beginning with the debate on the presentation of the programme of the I Government Constitutional of Democracy established on 25 April: 'The sitting was opened, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I suppose this is the case to say: Good morning, Assembly of the Republic! We are indeed at a very high point in our constitutional life. The President of the House could not steal the emotion of pointing out before his peers, before the people, before the press, before the honourable Members. Diplomats, before the whole country, this transcendent fact of our life after 50 years of fascism: for the first time a constitutional government presents itself to the assembly of the people to account. I want this to be noted, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with our joy and with our deep emotion». Basque words from the range Fernandes. [[General applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now move on to our agenda today. in the first point, we have read the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation return of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 27 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Regulates access to the pregnancy of substitution by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( assisted drug procreation) which is of the following content: “ Ex. Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, I am addressing you in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic concerning Decree No 27 / XIII, which regulates access to the pregnancy of replacement, making the third amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July (protected drug procreation ). This Decree was approved in a comprehensive final vote by the Socialist Party (with the exception of two), the Left Party (proposing Party), the Greens Ecological Party (“The Greens”), the People-Animal-Nature Party and 24 Members of the Democratic Social Party. They voted against the members of the Social Democratic Centre, the Portuguese Communist Party and most of the members of the Social Democratic Party, as well as two Members of the Socialist Party. Three Members of the Social Democratic Party abstained. It was therefore a discussion which did not correspond to the division between parliamentary groups supporting the government and parliamentary groups of the opposition, nor to the classic distinction between the right and the left. On the other hand, a judgment on the subject cannot and should not be formulated on the strict basis of convictions or personal positions of the holder of the President of the Republic, but, above all, taking into account the opinions of the National Council of Ethics and Life Sciences, whose legal competence and composition is unquestionable. Now, by Opinion No 63 / NEV / 2012 of 26 March 2012, Prof. Dr. Miguel Oliveira and Silva, and rapporteur Mr. Prof. Jorge Reis Novais, the Council understood the following:‘The National Ethics Council and for Life Sciences exceptionally accepts the birth of replacement provided that the law guarantees compliance with all of the following conditions: 1 — The replacement pregnant woman and the beneficiary couple are fully informed and clarified, among other elements equally necessary, about the meaning and consequences of the influence of the replacement pregnant woman on embryonal and foetal development (e.g. epigenetic), including such detailed clarification in written informed consent signed in due time. 2 — The consent may be revoked by the replacement pregnant woman at any time until birth. in this case, the child should be considered for all social and legal purposes as the daughter of the child who gave birth. 3 — The contract between the beneficiary couple and the replacement pregnant woman shall include provisions to be observed in the event of foetal malformations or disease and any voluntary termination of pregnancy. 4 — The replacement pregnant woman and the beneficiary couple should be informed that the future child has the full right to know the conditions under which it was generated. 5 — The replacement pregnant woman should not simultaneously be a donor of ovocytes in the pregnancy concerned. 6 — The replacement pregnant woman must be healthy. 7 — The altruistic motivations of the replacement pregnant woman should be previously assessed by a multidisciplinary health team, not involved in the WFP process. 8 — Any health occurrences in pregnancy (fetal or maternal) are decided exclusively by the replacement pregnant woman with the support of multidisciplinary health team. 9 — It is for the beneficiary couple, together with the replacement pregnant woman, to decide on the form of breastfeeding (in case of conflict, the choice of the beneficiary couple should prevail). 10 — The existence of a relationship of economic subordination between the parties involved in the pregnancy of substitution is legally unacceptable. 11 — The contract on pregnancy of substitution (concluded prior to pregnancy) may not impose restrictions of behavior on the replacement pregnant woman (such as food conditioning, clothing, profession, sexual life). 12 — The embryo transferred to the replacement pregnant woman has at least one element of the potential beneficiary couple as a gametic parent. 13 — The law on this matter and its supplementary regulation shall be reassessed three years after its entry into force. At the time, the deliberation was taken by a majority and the minority was opposed to the exceptional acceptance, even under conditions, of the pregnancy of replacement. Four years later, by Opinion No 87 / CNEV / 2016, of 11 March 2016, the same Council, being President Dr. João Lobo Antunes and rapporteurs Mr. Prof. Drs. Rita Lobo Xavier, Jorge Soares and Lucília Nunes, decided to reaffirm the 2012 requirements, in particular the following, ‘Considering that the proposed amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July, which was included in Bill No 36 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), the Left Block, with regard to the regime of ‘replacement gestation’, essentially aims to lift the prohibition contained in Article 8. the same Law, 1 — The Council considers that the rights of the child to be born and the pregnant woman are not safeguarded, nor is the appropriate framework of the pregnancy contract made. 2 — The Council further considers that the proposed text does not respond to most of the objections and conditions that the Council, already in its Opinion No 63 / CNECV / 2012, considered cumulatively indispensable, of which they stand out: information to the beneficiary couple and the replacement pregnant woman on the meaning and consequences of the influence of the pregnant woman on embryonal and foetal development; the terms of the revocation of the consent and its consequences; the provision of contractual provisions for the occurrence of foetal malformations or diseases and for possible termination of pregnancy; the decision on any health occurrences in pregnancy, both fetal and maternal; The non-restriction of behaviors to the replacement pregnant woman. 3 — so that the Council does not, from an ethical point of view, consider it justified to amend the legal regime of the pregnancy of replacement in accordance with the terms proposed by the legislative initiative. The deliberation did not deserve a statement of vote on the matter. I verify that the Decree sent for promulgation does not meet the cumulative conditions formulated by the National Council of Ethics and for Life Sciences, as clearly stated the declaration of vote of maturity of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party. The above conditions have been set out in two deliberations with four years of difference and with different compositions of the Council, and have always translated the perspective more open to a legislative initiative in this area. For example, much more open than the European Parliament Resolution 2015 / 2229 ( INI) of 17 / 12 / 2015, adopted by 421 votes to 86 against and 116 abstentions, which condemned, in its paragraph 115, the pregnancy of substitution and defended its prohibition. I therefore believe that the Assembly of the Republic must have the opportunity to consider, once again, whether it wants to accept the conditions advocated by the National Council of Ethics and for the Sciences of Life, now not consecrated or even removed. Therefore, without promulgation, Decree No. 27 / XIII, of the Assembly of the Republic, which regulates access to pregnancy of substitution, making the third amendment to Law No. 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( product protection assisted ). Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, President of the Republic. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Members, we will move on to item 2 of the agenda, with a PSD marking, which consists of the assessment of draft resolution No 360 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee to study and promote a reform of the Portuguese public social security system ( PSD ). To present the draft resolution, Mr Marco António Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: In an open and built-in spirit of constructive intention, the PSD presents today in this House a draft resolution that aims to motivate a constructive dialogue on behalf of the present and the future of our social state. when presenting this project, we do not intend, in an aprioristic way, to guide the debate towards the choice of any model of social security reform in concrete. What we want, yes, is that we create conditions for a serious and constructive debate. Today, however, there are official indicators that reflect the existence of threats that affect the sustainability of social security. They are not the result of an unfavorable condition that can be corrected with minor surgical changes. Let us therefore take a close look at some of these indicators. The European Commission plans for Portugal a consistent increase in average life expectancy at birth, for 83 years in 2030 and for 87 years in 2060, and still in 2030 about 35% of the Portuguese population will be 65 years old, or over. Today, there are already 2, 6 assets for each pensioner in the social security system, when the ratio indicated 3, 3 assets per pensioner 10 years ago. Portugal is today one of the countries in the world where life expectancy has already exceeded 80 years. This is good news, especially if associated with it is also a permanent improvement in the quality of life of the older populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u6	But at the same time it is a reality that brings added challenges, particularly when this population ageing is added to a recessive birth. in our country, the fertility rate has suffered a constant decrease since 2010, thus compromising the desired renewal of generations. We have seen the phenomenon of the so-called 'double ageing', which crosses increasing longevity with the sharp breakdown of births. These numbers are real and clearly show the dimension of the challenge we face. in practice, all numbers simultaneously show a worrying decrease of people who contribute and an accelerated increase of the universe of those who benefit. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are now moving from demography to economics. The scenario I have described would always be worrying, but it would be - at least if we had a sustainable and continuously growing economy, which would create jobs in an accelerated manner and thus ensure the increase in the volume of contributions to the social security system.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u8	But that is not our situation because, despite the improvement in the economic landscape since 2013, the growth of the economy has been insufficient and in 2016 we witnessed the destruction of jobs, the fall in employment rates and an unemployment rate that aims to stop the descent path in which it was several months ago. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u9	We must also consider the change in the productive profile of the Portuguese economy, now more specialized in knowledge sectors and more based on intensive capital and less labour. Once again, the equation remains and is simple: the number of those who pay contributions decreases and the number of those who receive benefits increases. In addition to the quantity, it is also important that we focus on quality. It is important to understand how the system can provide more adequate responses to the promotion of social inclusion and inter-generational solidarity. It is important to ensure that the State promotes, in particular, equity and social justice, that the State promotes social cohesion and that the State transmits security to those who depend on it or may come to depend on it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is therefore necessary for this Parliament not to turn its back on the warnings that these indicators give us as to the risks we live and the reality that we have to face. The illusion of an infinite social state and the desire to escape the discomfort of discussing this issue cannot constitute a serious justification for dishonouring political leaders and social agents of their obligations. Not turning your back means discussing, studying, listening to experts, analyzing models, promoting informed public participation, as well as producing conclusions able to assess the different options that can be translated into a proposal for structural reform of our public social security system and which is modelled and validated in the context of social consultation. It does not advance in the present and in the future to deny the evidence nor to disguise the difficulties the social security system faces, under the penalty of having to speed up what we can decide and deal with in a timely manner. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What the PSD here proposes to you is very simple and, we think, constructive and incontroversial: the constitution of a possible committee for, in 180 days, to study and propose a structural reform of the Portuguese public social security system. Today, the different parties with parliamentary seats will have to decide whether they want to lose themselves in party disputes or if they want to contribute to the construction of indispensable consensus. I declare now that we do not want any reform that cuts pensions to pay because the time of emergency and rescue, fortunately, has passed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u11	... nor do we want any solution to privatize the social security system. We therefore appeal that the false accusations, simplistic and hollow ones, not be used again, that the reform we intend to cut pensions, because whoever does so will be launching falsehoods to poison public opinion and to make the option for blocking dialogue. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u12	We want a reform that ensures that conjuncural crises will not call into question the robustness of the public social security system, leading to the fact that again in the future, as happened in 2011, governments will see themselves in the contingencies of signing financial rescue programmes where they include the cutting of pensions as something indispensable to the balance of the public social security system. We want a reform that will ensure that the current active generations will know, without any doubt, that when the right time comes they will have access to their pension and will know the amount of it in advance. We want a reform that ensures that everyone can have access to relevant information about the options that they can make throughout their contribution career so that they can predict what the future will hold for them. In our view, anyone who wants to safeguard the future of social security will always be available to address the problem and have the will to be part of the solution. For us today as always, we are ready to work because we take Portugal seriously. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u13	Four honourable Members and Mr Marco António Costa informed the Bureau that they wanted to respond at the end of each two requests for clarification. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Marco António Costa, is precisely because the PS considers the debate on social security very serious and important that the PS cannot support this PSD proposal. If there were any doubts about this position, the honourable Member, in his speech, clarified everything. The honourable Member said that now, because the rescue has already passed, because the worst of the crisis has passed, they no longer defend a pension cut. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Government, at least since 2014 they have sold to the country the idea that the worst of the crisis had passed, that the ransom had been left behind and, nevertheless, they have taken a pension cut of EUR 600 million with Brussels. Sir, what coherence is this? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let me ask you: what is the point of setting up a committee for social security reform when the Parliamentary Committee on Labour and Social Security has competence and mandate not only to discuss proposals which are presented in this area as an invitation, to hear who understands on this matter? Furthermore, Mr President, this House, in other legislatures, has already promoted discussions on the sustainability of social security, on social security reform, and some of these debates have given rise to reports, and a possible committee has never been required to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Does the PSD not trust the Parliamentary Committee on Labour and Social Security? Or if you want to create this possible committee, do you think you can discuss social security without discussing work and its importance in social security? What if you want to discuss the two things, then what is the purpose of the Committee on Labour and Social Security? These questions, ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members make it clear that this proposal does not make sense and cannot be considered serious. But if this proposal does not make sense and cannot be considered serious, given the work organisation of this House, it does not make sense either because it presupposes that the discussion of social security and its reform is now beginning from the zero point, which is not, at all, Mr President. Frankly, the ladies. PSD members even think that someone in the country doesn't know what each of us defends for social security and sustainability... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u15	We don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u16	... and what are the different alternatives that are on the table? Oh, my God! The more studies are needed, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the alternatives on the table? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Question, ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members : Do you even think Portuguese people are forgotten, or perhaps even crazy, to remember what the PSD always defended and did when it was in government? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members of the PSD, do you think that the Portuguese don't remember the cuts they made in pensions, cuts those you wanted to start in pensions a little above 600 euros and that they were not only effective because the Constitutional Court led them? Oh, my God! Mrs. Members of the PSD, do you even think that the Portuguese do not remember the cuts they made in various social benefits, from then on in those that were the most effective in combating poverty? Oh, my God! Do you really think Portuguese people don't remember that it was with your government that the tendency to reduce poverty and inequality was reversed, the impact of social transfers on poverty reduction? Oh, my God! Do you really think the Portuguese don't remember and ignore this? Oh, my God! You see, too, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, does not the Portuguese remember that you, on behalf of the sustainability of social security, did not only cut 5 % and 6 % in unemployment and disease allowance because, once again, the Constitutional Court did not leave? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD regrets, in the text of the proposal it submits, the excessive penalty for early pensions of long-term contributions. Mr Marco António Costa, perhaps you can answer this question: do you really think that the Portuguese do not know, especially those who thought about asking for early reform at the beginning of this year, that were exactly the changes made by your Government in 2014 in the sustainability factor that penalized them in an absolutely unacceptable way? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do you think, Mr Marco António Costa, that the Portuguese did not realize that the current government had to suspend the allocation of these early reforms to protect these workers from the real trap, which condemned them to poverty, left by the previous government? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Marco António Costa is certainly aware that, on average, the requests for early retirement of these people, at the beginning of this year, gave, as the value of pensions, less than €200, the sustainability factor applied with your changes made at that time, to the hidden ones, without listening to anyone and surely without any possible committee to discuss them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u17	Finally, Mr President, and this is very important, do you think that all of us here are forgetting that, if you were in the government today, what would now be achieved was the cut of 600 million in pensions and the start of the social security ceiling process? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u18	Yes, Mr Marco António Costa, we all know, the whole country knows what your proposals have been so far, as you know what they did when they were in the government, and no possible committee would be able to hide it. The country also knows that PS is against and that it will always be against all these proposals, because they have, of course, a misdiagnosis that confuses, instrumentally, structural pressures with conjunctural pressures on the social security system, and, above all, challenges public social security based on intergenerational solidarity. Mr Marco António Costa, if the PSD wants to submit new proposals that rewrite the story about the one who has been the positioning of the PSD in this area, please. Different proposals from these, Parliament will discuss them, as it has always discussed all the proposals. Now, don't try the PSD to fool anyone because he can't or can't. Mr President, today there is a government and a clear majority of parliament that supports it as the main objective of its economic, social and employment policies to strengthen social security and stability, acting on the factors that are essential and decisive to this sustainability, factors that the PSD has always hidden and refused to debate so far. I am referring to employment, the fight against precariousness, a word that does not exist only once in your electoral programme. [[PSD protests.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do what I have done: they will seek 'precautionary' in your electoral programme. Zero, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! But the value of wages is also zero in your electoral programme, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! If the PSD wants to contribute to this debate and to the broad consensus that exists today in the Assembly, thus contributing to ensure that the measures it has taken in the past never again be tested by any government in the future, then, yes, Mr Marco António Costa, the PSD will be providing a great service to the country and to the future of social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u19	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u20	Mr President, Mr Marco António Costa, let me tell you that the PSD stands well in this place, in this place of opposition, because today, when we hear Mr Marco António Costa speaking, we remember Mr Marco António Costa State Secretary, the one who answered Parliament's questions zero and the one who never sent to the Assembly of the Republic the important documents on the analysis of social security accounts. And therefore I would like to congratulate you, Mr President, on telling you that you are well placed in the place of a Member, indeed, much better than in the place of a Secretary of State. The honourable Member does not remember, but I do remember: the special education allowance was cut off to thousands of children in our country when you were a State Secretary in the Ministry of Solidarity and Social Security. But I also want to say to you, Mr President, that it is unfortunate that the PSD, which now comes to speak in a serious, rigorous and constructive way — these were the words you used from the rostrum — over four years I have never wanted to discuss seriously, rigorously and constructively the impacts of the political options they have taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u21	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u22	We have repeatedly faced here the PSD/CDS Government on the impact of unemployment and precariousness on the public social security system. Several times here we have warned the honourable Member, then a member of the government, and the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS on the impact of unemployment and precariousness on the absence of contributions and revenues for social security. And we have said several times here that the problem is not demographic, the problem is economic. It is therefore easy to conclude, Mr President, that, with half a million emigrants and half a million busy, it is 1 million Portuguese who are not contributing to social security revenues.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u23	Exactly! It's just making the count!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u24	Half a million emigrants and half a million busy... [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] ... is 1 million lack of revenue for social security, and this clearly shows that the problem is economic, it is not demographic. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] That is why we have said several times here, Mr President, that what the PSD has done and that it is intended to continue to do not be the will of the Portuguese to break up this policy, it was a cut of 600 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u25	But you're not talking about cuts!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u26	On several occasions we have brought here page 39 of the Stability Programme where this measure comes: « Introduction of a measure for the sustainability of social security (about EUR 600 million) (...) on pensions based on distribution models (... ), defining an obligation(...) to achieve a positive impact of EUR 600 million (...) ». [[It's true! It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u27	It should be said here that "positive" for PSD is cuts, and therefore what the PSD/CDS Government wanted to take in fact with the European Commission was that by 2019 there would be a new cut in pensions of 600 million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u28	Well, it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u29	But where are you talking about cuts?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u30	But, Mr President, we can also bring here the electoral programme of the PàF (Portugal to the Front). What did the PAF electoral program say? The honourable Member is here today to say that the times are different and that the PSD wants to talk about payment, does not want to talk about cuts. But, Mr President, the truth is that over the course of four years they have done nothing but cut into the contribution regime and the non-contributory regime and what they presented to the Portuguese was exactly that. More: they wanted to go further in the system of privatization of social security and said this: « effective bet on complementary reform plans, whether of a professional or individual nature, strengthening the culture of saving for reform ». And more: « introduction, for younger generations, a higher wage limit for the purpose of contributing and determining the value of the pension », of the maximum value of the future pension. This is the PSD proposal for the public social security system. That is why, Mr President, I must say that we are, as we have always been, on the side of public, universal and solidarity social security, with a fundamental role in combating poverty and ensuring what workers' discounts are and their protection throughout life. from the PCP, we are, as we have always been, alongside the workers and a fundamental conquest of the democratic regime that over four years have tried to destroy but have not succeeded. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u31	To reply, Mr Marco António Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u32	Mr President, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, I begin by saying that I sincerely regret that the honourable Member refuses to talk about the future and that she refuses to accept it with a completely razed justification, allow me to express it. If there was no need for possible committees, they would not be provided for in the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u33	And the honourable Member knows that possible committees are currently in operation that could also do their work in regular and permanent committees,... [[The struggle for transparency where is it?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u34	... on a proposal from the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u35	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u36	...but the honourable Member lacks memory of the facts. Madam Member, since you want to talk about the past, I would like to remind you that the Portuguese also remember what happened in 2009, the year of three elections — legislative, autarchic and European. this year, the social benefits, which were cut off in 2010; promoted an idea of social fullness that later in 2010 the Portuguese discovered that, after all, it was social mingu. [[PSD applause.]] Madam Member, I do not like to be referring here to circumstances that are public, but the honourable Member knows that who enrolled the pension court was a government of the Socialist Party, of which many of the elements of the current government were part.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u37	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u38	This government provided for the cut-off of pensions in Portugal. What we want to avoid is that this happens again because, from the data that have come out of economic growth, industrial production, employment, unemployment, such miraculous data from the macroeconomic programme brought to Portugal by Professor Centeno today do not occur and, in fact, they can lead us to a situation of difficulty again, and we want to prevent Portugal from having to take as hard measures as those that you have entered in the Financial Assistance Programme to Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u39	A program that you have negotiated!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u40	Mrs Rita Rato, allow me to tell you that we also want public, universal and solidarity social security. What we are not completely indifferent to the reality of social security today. And it is true that we have entered the Stability Programme, and the honourable Member had the rigour to read, that it was necessary to arrange a measure guaranteeing sustainability. [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] We didn't say we wanted to cut 600 million. [[PS laughter.]] We said we wanted a measure to ensure sustainability of 600 million. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because we wanted, and we want, to preserve pensioners, current and future. It is true that we had to take difficult measures over this time, but we took these measures because it was the legacy that left us,... [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] ... concerning a time that they launched in public opinion as a time of abundance and, after all, it was not that time of abundance. [[PSD applause.]] Madam Member, if you would like me to tell you, I am very proud to be part of a government that has always increased minimum pensions in Portugal, when others in the past frozen them,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... which supported the employability of young people, who strengthened the funds of social action through a social emergency programme, which approved the increase of 10% of unemployment benefit to unemployed couples or single-parent families with dependent children, who strengthened the solidarity network, which you now want to attack... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u41	... because they do not believe in the IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity), mercy and society,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... which made possible the unemployment allowance for self-employed workers, who dropped the unemployment allowance for small traders and small entrepreneurs, who often saw their businesses go down the water and had nothing to grab from a social point of view. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, we well know what we went to do: we went to save Portugal from the mistakes that others have made in the governance of the country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u42	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u43	Mr President, Mr Marco António Costa, equality, universality and solidarity between generations are the fundamental principles of social security. But in fact it is ironic that we are discussing these same principles and the sustainability of social security at the request of the PSD, which was the one who was in front of the government that most called into question social security and caused the greatest threat to its sustainability.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u45	So there is one question: is there no memory in the PSD bench? Oh, my God! Is there no memory that it was the PSD government that made the most blatant invitation to an entire generation of emigration? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u46	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u47	There is no memory that it was in the PSD government that one of the most significant destructions of Portuguese labour fabric, through the lower wage (directly and indirectly),...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u49	... but also the intended deresponsibility of employers, as regards the contribution to social security? Oh, my God! Is there no memory that it was during the PSD government that one of the biggest unemployment increases in this country? Oh, my God! Is there no memory of the proposal to cut 600 million euros in pensions in Brussels but hidden in the country itself? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u50	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u51	Is there no memory of the cuts in social support and of the successive transformation of social action into an absolute business? Oh, my God! Mrs. Members, the PSD may deliberately want to forget this legacy, but there are those who have not forgotten it and have chosen and chosen a different path, a path other than the construction of a social model based on precariousness, very low wages, the reduction of social support, the construction of an army of trainees who have not known for years a contract of employment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u52	Yes, and this was the choice of the previous government, it helped destroy social security. Until today, and after all the more troika destruction than the troika of the PSD, we have not heard one time a responsibility for the results obtained.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u53	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u54	We have already discussed the question of taking responsibility and when we do not assume responsibilities, we actually come to debates like this: debates that shake the water from the top of political responsibilities and blame ourselves for demographic data, for demographic pressure, which is said to be done in the document also in a confusing way. [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] We will never have a serious debate on the issues raised, without demagogy and with the necessary memory, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen? It is not possible to continue to believe that they can act towards the destruction of public service, when they are in government, then, when they are in opposition, they want to appear as the saviors of social security, eradicating everything that has been done and that has influenced their destruction. Is this a serious way to make this debate, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Member Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u55	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Marco António Costa, we, The Greens, look at the PSD proposal with many, but many reservations. And you know why, Your Honor? Because when we look back, especially for the past four years, we find that the policies of the previous government, in the area of social security, did not run far from two objectives which, curiously, said the honourable Member (I said from the rostrum), that the PSD now does not want. And what are these goals? On the one hand, the reduction of expenditure on payment benefits, and that such EUR 600 million that the previous Government intended to withdraw from pensions is only the example; on the other hand, the progressive privatisation of the system, with the introduction of the ceiling. But the PSD/CDS government did not stay here, because its obsession with austerity ended by multiplying unemployment and emigration, which are two decisive factors for the sustainability of social security and which still had reflections on the level of birth, further degrading the conditions of sustainability, in fact, as referred to in the explanatory statement of the PSD proposal, although without making any reference to the responsibility of the previous government in the worsening of this framework, but we understand why.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u57	You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u58	The fact is that measures are required because social security has changed in recent years, and it is also true that these changes, especially those promoted by the previous government, have always been aimed at controlling the increase in public expenditure. Let us look at examples: first, the suspension of the anticipation of the retirement age, which implied that between 2012 and 2014 workers were prevented from reforming with the age below the legal retirement age. The indexation of age of reform to the average life expectancy was followed, a measure which, in fact, came to penalize reform further before legal age. Finally, the worsening of the sustainability factor, done by the previous government, which came to penalise people who anticipate the retirement age very cruelly. In fact, Mr Marco António Costa, the PSD and CDS government has not yet published the portal with the revaluation coefficients of wages that serve to calculate pensions and with this omission, intentionally or not, the truth is that people who retired in 2015 are receiving lower pensions than those they were entitled to. So there's a lot to be done in this area. First of all, it is necessary to seek to improve the financial, economic and social sustainability conditions of the social security system. It is necessary to counter demographic pressures — and here it is particularly important to promote birth. It is necessary to seek new forms of financing and to combat fraud and tax evasion, because they reach very worrying levels today and are causing the breakdown of pensions, since the lack of financial resources is always a pretext for not updating pensions. But these are not the only causes of the degradation of social security pensions, because we will still have to add to them the erosion of the contribution base. As you know, the share of the net domestic product that returns to workers in the form of orders and wages is the basis by which contributions to social security are calculated. Now, what we have been watching, especially in recent years, is that this base is getting smaller, because lower wages have come to be. In other words, today is much greater the share of wealth that is created and that does not contribute to social security than that which contributes, which are the orders and wages. This trend seriously compromises the sustainability of social security, requiring more cuts in pensions and preventing the proper and fair updating of pensions if no action is taken. And, Mr Marco António Costa, it is precisely on this subject that my request for clarification falls. I would like to know whether the PSD is available to seek legislative solutions to extend the basis for calculating corporate contributions, in order to consider all the wealth created in the country and not only the part of orders and wages. I think it was important for you to tell us something about this until we can understand the scope of the PSD's claim when, in point 2(a ) of the draft resolution before us, it concerns sources of social security financing. So it would be important for you to tell us something about this. Finally, Mr President, the PSD proposes the establishment of a possible committee to study a reform of the public social security system, which already has a framework within the competences of the Parliamentary Committee on Labour and Social Security. I would like to ask you, Mr Marco António Costa, if you do not think that, in addition to a clear and objective futility, this proposal from the PSD would eventually empty the work of the Parliamentary Committee on Labour and Social Security? [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u59	To reply, Mr Marco António Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u60	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires and Mr José Luís Ferreira, thank you for the questions you have raised. in the case of Mr José Luís Ferreira, I would like to give an explanation, which also, in some way, responds to the concerns of Mrs Isabel Pires, who has to do with the following: Members have presented here a set of problems, such as us, PSD, we also presented in our draft resolution. What we want is that we can all sit in a committee, hear experts and hear people who can provide a sustained and technically substantiated discussion, so that we can present to the public, for debate, models and solutions that are properly analysed, studied and supported and that safeguard the current situation of social security and the future situation. What Mr. José Luís Ferreira wants, and what some parliamentarians want, is to bring this discussion to us for these 27 minutes. That does not seem possible to me, nor does it seem healthy in such an important and so relevant matter for the future of Portuguese people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u61	The basic question, Mr President, is very simple: it is to know today, here in this House, who is on the side of the constructive dialogue and who is on the side of the discussion, as we have heard so many times in charge of this government talking about constructive dialogue, and then, at the time of truth, flee that dialogue at the appropriate place, which is the Assembly of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u62	That is the bottom line. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, allow me to tell you that the question of the introduction of new sources of financing for social security is provided for in the Government programme that you and this left-wing majority support. It's planned here. What we, PSD, want to know is what are, in what way, what impacts and sustainability they will have, from the point of view of the effects on the sustainability of social security. Mr President, the question is very simple: we have heard Minister Santos Silva, number two of the Government, saying that the Government was available for this discussion which we launched in public opinion and for the invitation we made for the establishment of a possible committee, putting two conditions, which are what we understand today that we can ensure, after the social emergency period why we passed and since the Socialist Party does not insist on wanting to cut pensions: do not cut pension payments and do not privatize the system, which we never wanted or ever wanted. So, honourable Member, the invitation is whether or not you want dialogue. Or do you just want to walk over there and fill your mouth with dialogue and inside you don't want anything? Oh, my God! That is the point. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u63	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I now hear Mr Marco António Costa asking that we all sit at a table to discuss these matters, I am forced to recall the many times when we have already sat at various tables, unfortunately, over several years, for many years, because, in fact, this discussion that Mr Marco António Costa wants to bring here today is a discussion repeatedly brought by the PSD over the years. So let us remember the facts. in the 1990s, the PSD said that social security was broken and that a radical reform of the system was needed. There are, in fact, parliamentary debates in 1998 and the Socialist Party's response in that year, as, in fact, today, because we maintain the same answer, is that, contrary to what the PSD says — and the CDS, now - the system is not broken and, as far as you have done so that during your governance it would be true, the Socialist Party saved the system in 2000,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... opposed the diagnoses presented by the PSD and the CDS and showed that a public system was viable. Last years, in the governance of Durão Barroso and then Pedro Santana Lopes, we returned to the same subject. What did the PSD and CDS say? That the public and universal distribution system is broken and we need to move forward to the ceiling. And what do you propose at that time? Well, as they recognized that the system would have high deficits if it advanced to the ceiling, the PSD and the CDS proposed that the transition cost of this privatization of the system would be financed — imagine! — with a massive public debt issue. What did the Socialist Party do to this proposal? He rejected the premise of PSD and CDS and put it on the public, universal and distribution social security system that we have today,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... by making a reform to ensure the sustainability of the system, which was worked in 2006 and presented in 2007, where we reaffirmed the traditional principles of democratic socialism and, now and above all, of social democracy, which the PSD gentlemen have in the name but not in practice, and reaffirmed the public pension system, rejecting the idea that it was insolvent and proposing a profound reform for social security in 2007. Now, years after and after they've been in the government, what are they doing the PSD and the CDS, in this case, more specifically the PSD? What they have always done: the system is broken and a profound reform of the system is needed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr Marco António Costa, I think the problem is not so much that we sit at a table discussing these issues, the problem is that we are tired of your heated discussion, which always insists on the same points. And now, if you don't mind, I note that we are also tired of always dissembling your arguments and proposing, yes, a reform that defends the public pension system, which you say in your speech, that you want to defend but in practice do the opposite. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have two fundamental problems with the proposal of the Social Democratic Party: the first substance and the second form. Let's go first, the matter of the substance. We disagree with all the diagnoses presented by the PSD because we think that they start from wrong premises, from manipulated data, or that actually do not correspond to reality. And when they are right to identify problems in social security, the only thing the Socialist Party has to say is that we ourselves have recognized, and for many years, these problems; the difference is that we try to give them answers and you, PSD, stop problems, stop investing in the system... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and make a run forward, trying an alternative system. Let us, then, to the second problem, consider the matter of substance. The PSD says there is a demographic problem and they say so 30 years ago. what they forget is that if it is true that there is a demographic problem, it is no less true that whoever took a demographic problem and transformed it into a demographic crisis it was your governance, because all the demographic indicators have deteriorated with your governance. For example, in a chart that is present in your draft resolution, you say there is a tendency to reduce birth which is visible in the table presented by you. Now, in any reading of this table one quickly realizes that, yes, there is a trend that is common to the overallity of Western countries, and there was a trend of degradation of birth in Portugal. But there is one thing that your own chart fully shows that if this trend was bad, if anything happened during the years of PSD/CDS governance was that the trend has deteriorated and deteriorated significantly, so significantly that in four years, birth breaks were greater than 20 years before. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to argue that there is a continuing trend. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There was a tendency that we were trying to answer and that you tried to degrade and then say: "Alas, alas, alas, this is so bad that we now have to reform the system." No, sir. Members, like what happened in the late 1990s, in the mid-2000s, then in the governance of the Socialist Party, and now again, we believe that the only system that guarantees intra-generational and inter-generational solidarity, the only system that guarantees social cohesion and the only system that guarantees pensions is even the universal public system and not the system of capitalisation, which, although they do not explicitly say so, has always said so throughout all the interventions in this type of debate, that is what they defended in your electoral programme, both in the last elections and in the previous elections. So let's stir up your diagnosis a little bit more. Demographically, what you are doing is to pick up a set of negative indicators: there is an ageing population, there is a fall in birth, there is a deterioration in the precarious situation, there is a deterioration in the wage situation, there is a degradation of emigration and we give you reason. In fact, all these indicators have deteriorated. But the great difference between the Socialist Party, and now let me say, between the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the PCP, The Greens, and I think that also the PAN, and you are that, when we look at negative indicators, we do not resign ourselves to them. [[PSD laughter.]] What you are doing is, on the one hand, proposing committees for birth and saying that birth should be stimulated, but on the other hand in social security, they say that birth is a problem, that it will continue to be a problem, that there is nothing to do and therefore we must resign ourselves to the loss of population, we must resign ourselves to the fall in wages, we must resign ourselves to the increase in precariousness, we must resign ourselves to the degradation of the labour market and act accordingly. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. To act in accordance with all negative indicators is to do the opposite, to try to counter them, to try to invert them, not to resign. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not the resignation with the loss of population that will solve the problem of social security, whether public or private. When we see that there is a problem of demographic degradation, what is asked of a government and a set of parties is that they try to reverse the situation. Apparently, you want to do this, but in matters not related to social security. They want to do this so they can have a slightly reactionary speech and, by the way, about the family, because then they do not export the same speech to social security. [[PSD protests.]] So we understand each other, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen: either birth is a problem and it is necessary to give you an answer to all areas where it is important or not a problem. They choose, either one or another, they can't be both. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The gentlemen. Members also say something that is false. They say that our social security does not reduce poverty and basically benefits the highest levels of income. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand each other once and for all. We have a system of contributions, which, of course, has in some way to replicate the wage scales that exist in the economy. Therefore, if the Portuguese economy has high levels of wage inequality it is inevitable that there is also inequality in the value of pensions in the contribution system. Why? For a reason that you also recognize, because the work factor and wages continue and must continue to be the support of the regime. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot have a system based on wages and value of work and then strange that there is inequality in the value of pensions. They only reproduce what exists at the wage levels of the active population. But obviously the system reduces this inequality. Why? Because the rate of pension formation for lower incomes is higher than the rate of pension formation for higher values. Therefore, if it is not possible that a social security system completely ignores the distribution of income, our social security system actually contributes to reducing income inequality. On the other hand, it is necessary to understand the non-contributory part, because this, yes, has the objective of reducing poverty, while the other has the objective—as social democracy has always defended since social security was created—not the redistribution of intergenerational wealth between active and inactive, but above all of income security. This has always been the flag of social democracy and democratic socialism in pensions. And if you don't understand that, I'm sorry to say, but you've completely abandoned social democracy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will then go to the non-contributory part which, indeed, has the obligation and objective to combat poverty. What does our non-contributory system do? Our non-contributory system has improved effectiveness in combating poverty, improved effectiveness in combating social exclusion and improved, yes, the part of all social security that goes to these factors: combating poverty, citizenship benefits, etc. And what did you do when you were in government? They cut the two main benefits that ensure the effectiveness of our non-contributory system: they cut the CSI, cut the CSI and also cut other non-contributory benefits. What did you get with that? They have reduced the social effectiveness of the fight against poverty, which now concerns you so much. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, does our system have any problems? Here. What's the answer? It is not to give up on him, never to bet on all the factors that ensure his sustainability. Now let's talk about your alternative, which you, curiously, don't talk about. All the factors that endanger a public distribution system also exist in a capitalisation system, which is the only escape forward that the PSD and, now, the CDS also defend. Why? Because if we have a problem of ageing the population, in which the ratio of the active population on the inactive population decreases, before it is a problem for social security, it is an economic problem, a problem of solvency of all public systems: justice, health, education. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] It is a problem of solvency of all the public systems and the Portuguese economy, because if we have a problem that is to guarantee income to those who do not work, the fact that the system is public or private, that it is of capitalisation or distribution, this fundamental fact, which is that we have more people not to work and fewer people to work, is not solved by the public or private nature of the system. The challenge remains. Therefore, in reality, what you propose is not to address the problem, not to address the problem, not to propose solutions to the problem, it is to give up, to resign to the problem and to propose a flight forward that does not solve anything. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand each other. Social-democracy, to which you allegedly belong, has always defended a model of public distribution and no model of capitalisation solves the problem, either of sustainability or of social justice. Mrs. Members, if they really want to debate this problem, as they have always defended in the past and apparently defended the minimum wage and also social security, respect social consultation, which is where the government is planning to debate the improvements of the system, together with the partners, which are those we have to discuss with. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u65	To request clarification from Mr. João Galamba, Mr. Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u66	Mr President, Mr. João Galamba, I would like to make some comments on the intervention that you have just made. On the issue that you have called upon us to make a permanent threat, to say that the social security system has problems and that, in difficult moments, I have to tell you, Mr President, that we have sought to be realistic, because the essential conditions of the system are critical conditions that are today with great weakness — demographic, economic and employment. Where we did not fall, Mr President, it is in the situation of an over-optimism which was, for example, reported by the Prime Minister in 2001, Eng. Antonio Guterres, who said here in Parliament the following : « It is therefore with pride that I say to you that this State budget » — referred to the Budget for 2002 — « in fulfilling the Social Security Basics Act for the first time, also translates for the first time, in full, a social security reform that makes our pension system fully sustainable for the whole of the 21st century ». 21st century, I said. [[Rice from PSD Members Carlos Abreu Amorim and Luís Montenegro.]] The truth is that Mr. Prime Minister of then referred to a reform, which was also carried out by the current President of the Assembly of the Republic, Dr. Ferro Rodrigues of 2000, which was repealed by another of 2003 and which was repealed by another of 2007. Therefore, this one - century projection was truly exaggerated. Now, on the issue of cuts in social benefits, I would remind you, Mr President, that the PEC 3 — does it remind you of the PEC 3? — provided for a cut of EUR 150 million in three years in the social income of insertion, EUR 150 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u67	What about PEC 4, which was at least EUR 1400 million? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u68	And we had not yet reached the crisis situation, which came later,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u69	We weren't in the pre-bancarrot yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u70	... the one who came with the ransom in 2011. Surely you're not surprised at that reality. But let me tell you two more things. Mr President, is our text, our project, our legislative initiative a resignation? Oh, my God! No, it's not! It's clear. You see, Mr President, the demographic variable—and you have had a blatant contradiction here in your speech—is a complex variable, it is a very sensitive variable for our distribution system. The employment-economy variable is what is known to be, strongly negative by this government: the slowdown in the economy, the destruction of employment and the uncontrollable unemployment, as unemployment is growing. These variables are highly painful and obviously worrisome. So it's not resignation. Resignation is the same as saying that we don't want to do anything, we say: "Okay, that's what is, this is over. When this is over, it's over. Today’s reformed people will not have their pensions and those who want to retire will not have their pensions either.” No, no, our text reveals clarity, it is to prevent this situation. And without prejudices or ideas made, we say that today the situation of pensions in Portugal, in the public distribution system, is very complicated. Furthermore, if it were not, Mr, you would not have put in the State budget for 2016, in a certain section of the social security budget, the extraordinary transfer of EUR 653 million to meet the extraordinary deficit of the distribution system, which adds to the approximately EUR 4500 million that was placed there in the previous four years by the previous Government. So the situation is complicated. For all this we are clear and this clarity leads us to propose here a resolution aimed at the creation of a possible committee. Does this committee have any problems, or does it, Mr? Is there any problem with discussing this in Parliament in an open-minded way? There isn't. I really wanted to know why I did not understand, what is the problem of the Socialist Party's debate on one of these matters in Parliament, where the political forces are and where the social forces can be called. Tell me, Mr, because I didn't understand that part. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u71	To reply, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u72	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, the answer to your question is very easy. We have no problem in debating, as we have always been discussing in this Parliament. You seem to have a problem with debate and therefore get the case file from a committee, if any, so that you do not have to put forward, in particular, the proposals they defend and therefore take refuge in formalism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They are putting forward the proposals they stand for, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. But we already know them because they were presented in the past and I can tell you that they did not contribute at all to the sustainability of social security or to the trust of pensioners, current or future. Mr President, I have little time and I still want to leave time for my colleague to be able to intervene, but I will only talk about the question of resignation. The honourable Member presents a number of negative indicators — wages, work, births, demography — and what I tell you is that the big difference between us is that we want to reverse all these data. We would never write, in a document on social security, that we are doomed to the fatality of low birth. Before birth, the obligation of a Portuguese party is to propose measures to reverse the birth rate and that is what I am saying, Mr. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The honourable Member presents indicators that are the result of his government's political action, they have all degraded themselves and what he has to say to the country is: "We stop trying to improve, they are bad, we have to change our model". We say the opposite, sir. The current model is the only acceptable one, you have degraded these indicators and it is up to the Socialist Party to reverse them. That's what we're doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u73	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reform of social security is again discussed today and I cannot but begin by congratulating the Democratic Social Party on the opportunity of this debate, a debate that is timely, which is not only necessary as it is urgent. That is also the reason why the CDS made an agenda on the same subject for the next 6 July. Ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members, as they refer to, and well, in your draft resolution, to postpone solutions is to add crisis to the crisis, to add unsustainability to unsustainability, to add ruin to the rupture. in the necessary social security reform, the CDS is where it has always been. We know that ignoring this problem is condemning the financing of the social state, that we are at risk of mortgageting the future payment of pensions. We know that ignoring this problem is not respecting the confidence of citizens in the state, it is not worrying about the transparency of the social security system. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that ignoring this problem is also not to give a satisfactory answer to those who start discounting for social security today, is to ignore all those who are building a legitimate expectation of reform. in this debate, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are two possible positions: one is the one we have already seen, to pass blames and to pass responsibilities to the past, and we all have our arguments, with more historical reviews or less historical reviews; the other is to recognize that there is a problem to be faced, a problem that is from the country, a problem that is of all, is not a problem of the CDS, or a problem of the PSD, or a problem of the Socialist Party. It's a problem in the country, it's a problem of everyone! [[CDS-PP applause.]] I dare say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who is more or less the « ai, ai, ai» of Mr Galamba, but consequently. in this debate, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are also two different attitudes: the attitude of those who want to debate in Parliament and the attitude of those who do not want to debate at all and gradually prefer to go out of their minds in the media. Here too, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the ai, ai, ai, but then they do nothing! or "ay, ay, ay, but what kind of democracy is this? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is timely, necessary and urgent. The CDS today says what it has said: we are available for a broad and cross-cutting debate on social security reform, with the social partners but with all the political parties, in the House of Democracy, which is this Parliament. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a distribution model, as is the Portuguese case, in which today's taxpayers' discounts pay today's pensions, it is necessary to perceive our difficulties in the light of different aspects, such as increasing the average life expectancy, the challenge of birth, the behaviours and crises of the economy, the levels of productivity and the ever-increasing convergence between pensioners and contributors.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when pension expenditure represents 127 % — I repeat, 127 %! — the contributions received by social security, what do the politicians of the House of Democracy, of this Parliament, do to address the problem of social security reform?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u77	It is "alas, alas, aye"!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u78	I do not know what the 'ai, ai, ai' is, but it is good that it is a 'ai, ai, ai' as a consequence. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when the 2015 social security pension deficit is EUR 447 million, when Portugal is from the EU countries to 27, with the average of older ages and with higher birthrate breaks, when growth is lower than the estimated, as we have seen today, with low revisions, and unemployment again rises, what are politicians doing to deal with the problem of social security reform? I do not know whether it is the « ai, ai, ai» of Mr Galamba, but it is good to be consistent. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the CDS do not run away from the debate on social security reform. We recognize that this is an urgent debate and it is a timely and necessary debate. There is a political will and we do not continue to wave aside as if nothing were with us. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying that the debate should be parliamentary. We cannot continue to watch the Government escape from this debate and then to see a set of statements by the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security on this matter to the media. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The debate must be parliamentary. That is how democracy is dignified. That is how the Portuguese Parliament is dignified. This is the right place for us to have this debate, to discuss the different ideas, to show where we disagree and should not be, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, an account adjustment debate with the past. If this is an account adjustment debate with the past, we can speak of the EUR 1400 million in social pension cuts provided for in the so-called PEC 4. If it is a debate on how to adjust our accounts to the past, we can talk about the past of the Memorandum. If it is a debate on how to adjust our accounts to the past, we can talk about the bankruptcy and effort of the Portuguese in the past four years. This is a debate about the future, it is a debate about the next generations. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Don't stay immovable, don't be impatient and serene, when this is the debate, the reform of reforms, which should be in the so-called National Reform Programme, on your slides of the magnificent PowerPoint, because it is undoubtedly the most important reform and challenge the country is going through. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u79	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We see in this House discussing the problems related to the sustainability of social security with a debate promoted by the PSD. It continues to be strange that, after four years of successive destruction of the country, they are so concerned about the subject. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this speech is no longer credible and it is worth recalling what is in fact at issue with this debate. Statistically, elements that prefigure a problem for social security are identified, but solutions are not considered. Instead, the PSD opts for social security reform rather than for the investment of employment policies, social policies and economic policy to the country. This is not surprising, since it was the PSD government that destroyed employment the most, cut into social policies and turned on a path to economic destruction. Let's go, then. The PSD is based here on the principle that the social security system is not sustainable, which is being broken. Now, if we see, even, one of the studies cited in the draft resolution itself, The 2015 Ageing Report, the sustainability of social security is guaranteed until 2060. While not forgetting that in 2015 social security had €18,800 million of contributions revenue, it was the total expenditure of €17,803 million, excluding the non-contributory universe paid by taxes. Now, this principle that the PSD party is a kind of self-concrete prophecy or at least an attempt to do so, and in this way they make the fantastic number of magic to appear as the alleged saviors of social security. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at this moment, no one believes in this claim. To camouflage the political options taken by the previous government, which led to the destruction of employment and unconstitutional cuts, they respond saying that social security is unsustainable. It is not serious when it is intended to seek solutions for the country. It is true that, at the demographic level, Portugal is witnessing a greater ageing of the population and a low fertility rate, at the same time that it is at hand with a highly negative migration balance, it is important to realize that the problem of social security is not only and really demographic but, yes, economic and political, because without employment, without recovery of income and with high emigration there is no sustainability. And no one forgets which government has most caused this emigration, this unemployment and this low income. Nor can one want to talk about solidarity, support to whom he most needs, when, in the last four years, social benefits have been cut, there has been a significant decrease in the average wage, there has been a growing precariousness of labour relations, which alone leads to fewer contributions to social security and to unprecedented emigration. The country has suffered from cutting or lowering social benefits to support the family, which obviously increases the rate of poverty markedly since 2011 ; the elderly felt in the skin the cut of the supplementary solidarity for the elderly and the minimum pensions; the unemployed have seen themselves in a situation of greater vulnerability to the cut in social income of insertion, unemployment and social unemployment allowance, and we do not forget that the data show that the unemployment rate has never grown as much as in the time of the right austerity policy; the pensioners have seen their social contract broken with the increase in the accumulated losses of their pensions, the equivalent of seven months in five years. This without forgetting, of course, the intended cut of 600 million euros in pensions, announced in Brussels and never admitted here. in fact, there is no greater impact on social security than that caused by political choices for the social and economic model that you want for the country and the last four years have been a good example of the force of this impact, which PSD, again, tries to camouflage. Increasing unemployment, increasing the number of precarious workers or working informality, emigration, reduction of wages, increasing the retirement age, cuts in employment income, direct and indirect, reduction of the TSU (unique social rate) for employers — all of this are the political consequences or desires of the previous PSD Government and which, in essence, helped to decapitalize social security, make it more fragile and to deresponsibility for businesses. How can one, after this black history, claim to boast as a savior of what he has destroyed? That is: the former Government has done everything to break basic principles, such as equality, solidarity, universality and the promotion of social cohesion, not only with the social security itself, which is at stake here in the debate, but with all areas of the country's life. What should be discussed here seriously, but you realize that it cannot come from the PSD, is the intended path to the future of employment in this country and the investment that must be made in the economy and in the people who need it most. It is no longer worth camouflaging the destruction by creating a false idea that social security or the collapsing country is reformed. No, sir. Members, the country collapsing when a prime minister invites its population to emigration; the country collapsing when the job is destroyed with rights and, in the name of competitiveness and productivity, the army of trainees are created for the benefit of companies, trainees, those who do not see a contract of work for years; the country collapsing when there is no idea of construction but of destruction of the labour fabric. This has been all that has been done for the past four years. The sustainability of social security goes through a policy of recovery of income and rising wages, and the Left Block has never avoided this debate and has always made proposals for this sustainability; it goes through the fight against precariousness; it goes by countering migration, which means more people working in Portugal, staging the ageing of the population; it becomes responsible for its contribution, rejecting the decline of TSU for employers and a policy of combating fraud; it goes by valuing long-term contributions careers, not penalizing those who have been working for so many years; it goes through the diversity of sources of social security financing, such as taking into account the gross added value of businesses and not only the number of workers, considering changes in the economy; it is about rejecting any type of delivery of social security to private funds. All of this is the opposite of what has been followed and proposed so far by the PSD in recent years. We are indeed faced with another draft resolution and another debate promoted by the PSD to "throw sand for the eyes" of the Portuguese, in an attempt to spread the root of the problems identified and their solutions. We must not fail to mention this new desire of the PSD to want to debate and study everything and any subject. Where was this desire to debate and study when the unconstitutional cuts of pensions were decided? Where was this eagerness to debate and study when the social benefits of whom was most unprotected were cut off? Where was this eagerness to debate and study when all the measures that have aggravated the lives of those who work and live in Portugal were taken? I wasn't, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen — she did not exist! — and it was not because the choice was clear: paying debt and paying the bank to the detriment of people. All we know, in fact, about the PSD plans for social security is one thing: partial and progressive privatization of social security, leaving aside employment policies to combat precariousness and leaving quality employment policies to promote birth, for example. Finally, it leaves aside the resolution of the causes of the problems identified and opts to change the universal public model of social security. What's at stake here is doing a project of everyone just for some, in an eagerness, that, yes, constant of the PSD to privatize, to do business at the expense of people. It was the only concrete proposal actually put forward by the PSD to date and this will certainly be rejected. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u81	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Universal public social security and solidarity is one of the main achievements of the democratic regime, a right enshrined in the Constitution. The fundamental role of social security in ensuring conditions of progress and social justice is unquestionable. however, over the past few years, successive governments, in particular the previous PSD/CDS government, have been degrading and weakening social protection mechanisms, sowing constant claims of bankruptcy and financial sustainability of social security. At the blight of the so-called financial unsustainability of social security, the age of the reform was increased, the sustainability factor was introduced, unacceptable cuts were made in the family allowance, the unemployment allowance, the social unemployment allowance, the solidarity supplement for the elderly, the social income of insertion and the pensions of those who discounted an entire life. The attack on social security, particularly significant in the years of governance of the PSD and the CDS, had a clear objective: to weaken social security so as to promote pension funds or other financial applications in their place, favouring the great economic and financial interests which, in fact, have always seen in social security a desirable source of business. Let us now note the concern of the CDS and the PSD for social security. Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, where was the concern about the financial sustainability of social security when the former Government promoted amendments to the Labour Code that have become embarrassing and greatly facilitated dismissals, jeopardizing the very functioning of social security? Where was the concern of the CDS when it generalized precariousness and thus called into question contributory cycles by workers, degrading and weakening social security revenues? There were no concerns because the concerns of PSD and CDS are not, in fact, with public social security, with...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u83	Mrs Deputy, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but there's a noise in the room, which doesn't allow you to hear your words. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing and talking in favour of sitting down so that we can continue with the session. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u84	As I said, the concern of the PSD and the CDS with public social security does not exist, because over four years it has been marked by the weakening of the role of social security and its contribution and non-contributory regime. contrary to what has been done over the past four years, the threat to social security is not the average life expectancy, reforms and social support. The first and main threat is the policy that promotes the economic model based on low wages, using unemployment and job insecurity as essential instruments for its realization, a well-established reality in our country, well-defined over the last few years. This threat is coupled with the misuse of the social security system's funds, the exemptions, reductions and benefits attributed to the single social rate or loss of debt, on a path of weakening social security, which must be reversed. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not ignore or deny that social security faces future challenges, but we know that social security has a future. And in order to ensure robust and sound social security, while maintaining its solidarity and universal public character, it is important to act on three fronts: in combating unemployment and precariousness, promoting the creation of employment with rights, valuing and increasing wages, a way of raising living conditions, but also strengthening the financing of social security; in effective and determined fight against fraud, evasion and debt to social security, as well as its prescription regime; and in effectively combating the misuse of social security's funds. It is also necessary, and on the part of the CFP, to say that the need for expansion and diversification of sources of social security financing is needed. This is the serious debate and this is the contribution of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u85	For an intervention, Mr. Luís Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I begin my speech, replying directly to Mr Marco António Costa. The Socialist Party wants dialogue, yes, but it wants serious dialogue. I therefore hear with great attention how the PSD presents itself here today in this debate; they want to present themselves to the debate with an open mind, constructive intention and serious debate. I laugh and laugh at the Portuguese, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because the Portuguese are right now wondering where the PSD has been in the last four years, when they have had the opportunity to hold the debate in an open spirit, with constructive intent and a serious debate. Where have you been? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] You can say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have not remembered the fundamental issue of social security reform. But it is a lie, because they remembered and entered into structural documents of the previous government. Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila must certainly remember the state reform script, which specifically refers to a proposal for the establishment of a social security reform committee. So what the PSD here is doing today is a trick! It is the trick to repeat a proposal from the previous government that they have not implemented and come here today to this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that if there was no other reason for this debate to be scheduled, the circumstance of allowing everyone, without exception, to be able, in fact, to check and strengthen today the idea of differences between the left and the right, particularly between the PS and the PSD, was sufficient reason. And the differences are not new, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The differences are particularly due to the governance of the last four years. It was here today proved and evident that there was no worst enemy for social security as we have seen in the last 40 years, a public, universal and solidarity social security, rather than the austerity policies of the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When the PSD and the CDS defended the constitutional review, perhaps to change this social model, the PS defended the Constitution and defended a model of public, solidarity and universal social security. When the PSD and CDS challenged proportionality, confidence, cutting income and pensions, unequally in some sectors, the PS manifested itself against, the PS defended public social security. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the 'ai, ai, ai' that we all heard is the 'ai, ai' of the Portuguese people who have felt in their skin the policies of the last four years that have contributed to jeopardizing, indeed, the sustainability of social security, the reduction in social contributions, the increase in the number of beneficiaries of social claims with right cuts in pensions, but also, stigmatizing social benefits of poverty and decreasing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the reopening of this debate today, this trick, allows at least to deepen our differences, putting the nude — and there is here an act of contribution — the damage (the extent to which we will only know later) of the austerity policies of the past four years. There's a world that separates us. The PSD defends mixed social security, progressively private, individual and assistanceist, but the Socialist Party does not! The Socialist Party advocates social security, universal public and solidarity. The Socialist Party argues that everyone's contributions are for everyone, regardless of the social condition and the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u87	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u88	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is the proven example that those who have strayed from the consensus of the last forty years, once again, were the PSD. The PSD is radical in this matter, contrary to what the Socialist Party defends. The PSD and CDS have given up the Portuguese, they have given up this model.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u89	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u90	It must be said that the PS maintains the defense of this model and we are sorry, we truly regret that those who helped build the model of social security that is in force, the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats, have gone away from this design. So, today, they're all alone. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u91	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I was listening carefully to this debate and at some point I had to ask for the agenda of the plenary meeting. It is that whoever was attending the debate, as many will certainly be watching there at home, thought this was a debate about the past, about what had happened to the social security system, about the issue of the cuts of the CIS. We could also talk about this White Paper, then and today, Minister Vieira da Silva, which, in 2000, they remember well, would solve the problems of social security for 100 years. Not even 10, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! We could be discussing the responsibilities, about what the Socialist Party did in 2009, which went up social benefits, who went up public office salaries to win elections and, with that, took the country to bankruptcy and, with that, brought the troika and, with that, made certain measures to be taken. They might be thinking about it all, but they are disappointed because what we are discussing — and I asked the plenary agenda, Mr President — is just a draft resolution of the PSD which creates a possible committee to study and promote a reform of the public social security system.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u93	The PS doesn't want to study!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u94	That is the question: who wants to study a sustained reform of the Portuguese public social security system? Who wants and who doesn't? Who is concerned about the matter and who is not concerned about the matter? Who thinks it's all right and who thinks something needs to be done? [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] And, by the way, Mr. Members, as Mr Luís Soares said, who has just spoken, are very clear from the point of view of this House, what are the political positions: for the Left Block, for the PCP, for the Greens and for the Socialist Party, there is no problem in the social security system!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u95	He didn't hear anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u96	There's nothing wrong! It's okay! He's sustainable until the next bankruptcy... For the PSD, and also for the CDS, the current Portuguese pensioners, but also, present and even future contributors, deserve a little more.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u97	Listen, Mr. Deputy, listen! Because you're saying things that aren't true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u98	For us, they say it's all right, when everyone says it's not right, when, even, a White Book has already been made and failed, it deserves more humility and seeks to study. from the Socialist Party, by the way, wanting to study — something that does not surprise us, taking into account its practice — to propose with certainty, it is something bad, it is something harmful! They think, before, “We don’t want to study! We want it to be a PowerPoint so we can introduce it». Mrs. Members, this is the history of Socialist Portugal over the last few years. Therefore, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, let me tell you that the CDS will, precisely to munify this committee that we hope will be approved, present a draft resolution requiring the Government to have the transparency that the parties supporting the Government do not want to have in the Assembly. We will require the Government, since it does not want to provide information to the opposition, that it lends at least to the Portuguese, and that it transparently through the portal that is created and that it can be improved, tell and alert the Portuguese, particularly through the simulator, on what pension they would have faced with the current situation and current discounts. Madam Member, on the day you do this, the Portuguese will see the irresponsibility that you are taking. You do not want to create a committee, you do not want to study, you want to continue towards the abyss and, once again, the difference between the left and the right of this Chamber is here: there are those who want to solve the problems, there are those who want to hide them. They're going straight to a wall, good luck, but unfortunately, they're going to be the Portuguese again to pay! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u99	Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD presents itself, in its legislative agenda on social security, proposing exactly what? It presents a small monograph as a explanatory statement and then proposes a possible committee to study solutions for social security. Therefore, for the PSD what is needed now is to study the problems of social security in order to come forward with proposals in the future. The first conclusion of this debate is that the PSD and also the CDS have been in government for four years and have not studied anything. [[PCP applause.]] So it is necessary, now that the opposition has passed, to study the social security problems that the previous government clearly or clearly did not or did not want to do. The question may be raised: but does the PSD propose nothing here in relation to social security, does it not have any proposals for the social security system? There you have, only as you are in the opposition no longer agree with them. We remember what the PSD and CDS government proposed in relation to social security and we know perfectly well that if there was no 10 % cut in payment reforms it was because the Constitutional Court did not allow it and that then, from this decision of the Constitutional Court, the Prime Minister of the time came to say: "Now we will no longer propose anything in this legislature because our proposal has been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court". They then made a commitment to cut 600 million euros into social security. Mr Marco António Costa said recently that the PSD now no longer proposes cuts in paid pensions because we are no longer in the emergency situation in which we have been. But it is good to remember that the proposals that you made in the previous legislature were definitive cuts, it was nothing transitional. You have proposed final cuts and therefore nothing was involved in an emergency situation but in creating a final situation. When faced with what happened in writing to accept with the European Union the need to save 600 million in social security, you said: 'no, but this is not cut'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u101	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u102	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if they were not cut then say what they were, because the truth is that you are lying about cutting what you are proposing, but they have not strictly proposed anything more over the course of four years in which they were government if you do not impose cuts on social security. That, therefore, is another aspect that you cannot reveal. Mr President, I conclude by saying that the PSD clearly did not bring anything useful, constructive or positive to this debate. [[Applause from the PCP and the Greens,]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u103	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group has brought a proposal to this House in power. It's a simple proposal. We know that there is a structural problem, which is relevant in Portuguese society and which calls on us all to prepare a structural reform that meets the problem solution. I believe that the diagnoses are reasonably made, in an actuarial study, which was published less than a year ago by the GEP ( Office of Strategy and Planning ) of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Solidarity, it is read, as regards pension systems, that the estimates of implicit debt of the pension system range between the 179 % of GDP 83, 89 % of GDP in a more favourable scenario. I mean, the actuarial study that was revealed less than a year ago says that, in a more pessimistic perspective, we can have an implicit debt of this distribution system that reaches almost 180 % of GDP in the coming years and that, in a more favourable scenario, can reach about 84 % of GDP. We know what are the structural causes behind this situation and which were, in a very summary way, pointed out in the draft resolution: they have to do with issues related to demography, with problems related to our ability to grow and create jobs, with problems related to productivity, therefore problems that do not resolve in 10 years, that do not resolve simultaneously. That is why so many social security reforms have ended in the last 15 years because they have to happen, some with structural effects, but none to solve the structural problem and the failure of each precedent to justify the initiative of the following. And that's how we are today. in the last four years, during the period in which we live under emergency of an economic, financial and social nature, we were able to overcome the emergency, we were able to launch important structural reforms to solve many other structural problems, too, but the structural reform of social security is about to be done. This said by someone who has the experience of being Prime Minister should have been an important point in finding the intention of those who, today in the opposition, want to solve or help solve a structural problem that has not been solved in the past and yet this finding is triggered with a process of intention. Who hasn't solved before also doesn't want to solve now! [[Congratulations from the PSD and some Members of the CDS-PP.]] But, in fact, the ambition to solve the problem of social security is wider than what it has to do with pension security systems, because they are in imbalance, it is unequivocal, and the longer we push forward the more expensive solution it will be, the more distrust it will sow among all social and economic agents. But there is another reason, he said: is that we also see the failure of the redistributive objectives of social security outside the contribution system. It is evidence that the inequalities that remain, after many years of operation of social benefits that aim to correct and overcome situations of inequality, are not conjunctural. They may have been aggravated by the crisis,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u105	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u106	...but they existed before the crisis and will continue to exist later. So what did we propose? One thing that seems to me that at least I should have raised arguments different from those I heard. Let us, from Parliament, create conditions to remove the false problems, focus on the diagnoses that are incontrovertible, and test solutions for the future. Each one will have its own, we will not fail to present our own, but whatever solutions are to be presented by each one, it is important that they correspond to the evaluation, analysis, of the problems we have identified.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u107	Wrong analysis!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u108	Why is Parliament preferably the ideal place for this debate? Because any social security reform will have to be in agreement with the social partners, but it must be in agreement with more than the social partners. It is important and essential that, when we are talking about benefits, when we are talking about pensions that affect everyone, this debate is held with society and there is no other place that is closer to representing the social and political diversity of the country than Parliament! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] So our proposal is simple: in Parliament, we will put aside what are the most dated party arguments and we will be concerned about the future. We found out what the reaction was: first, disqualify the tenderer. In the past, those who have defended'so' or made 'assate' today cannot discuss it. Well, there's a good conception of democracy... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We in Parliament will begin to discuss on the basis of the past, disqualifying those we have to discuss with. That's a bad argument. There was also a bureaucratic argument: that there is already a committee to deal with this. However, if there is a standing committee that can also deal with these issues, it makes no sense to present a possible committee. But for us, it makes all the sense, because for 180 days we want to dedicate our study and work just to this issue. Mr President, there were also those who said that there was no problem and I believe that the justifications are no longer due to Parliament, will be due to the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, Mr President, what we must conclude is that if the majority and the Socialist Party do not even have the availability to be able, in a committee, to address possible solutions and evaluate the most objective diagnoses, in order to remove the whole dogmatic, and sometimes demagogic, of the discussion, then, Mr President, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are not available for anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u109	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u110	If not even to start this work, in search of a compromise, are available, then this majority that governs the country today is a closed majority about itself, exhausted, that does not want to discuss anything with the country, and that is the worst news that could come out of this Parliament. [[PSD applause, stand up, and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u111	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate, so we shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 360 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee to study and promote a reform of the Portuguese public social security system ( PSD ). First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic card. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic picture records 198 presences, to which are added 8 ( Deputies Jorge Duarte Costa, BE, Luís Soares, Ivan Gonçalves, João Paulo Correia and Isabel Santos, PS, Antonio Costa Silva, PSD and Assunción Cristas and Pedro Mota Soares, CDS-PP ), perfezing 206 deputies, so we have quorum to proceed to the voting. We shall vote on draft resolution No 360 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee to study and promote a reform of the Portuguese public social security system ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u112	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u113	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u114	Mr President, it is in order to inform the Bureau that I shall deliver a statement of vote on draft resolution No 360 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u115	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u116	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that I will present a statement of vote on the vote on the same diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-08.u117	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we meet tomorrow at 10 a.m. with a left block marking to discuss together the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 203 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Bans payments to non-cooperating offshore entities ( BE ), 204 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Defines the concept of effective beneficiary for the purposes of the IRC Code ( BE ), 205 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extend the securities to the carrier and determine the write-off of the securities, ensuring the identification of their holders ( BE), 206 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prevents cash payments above EUR 10 000 ( BE ), 207 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the obligation to register the shareholders of the banks to identify the effective beneficiaries of the entities participating in their capital ( BE ), 235 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Requires the annual publication of the total value and destination of transfers and remittances to countries, territories and regions with preferential taxation arrangements ( BE) and 236 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — condition the tax benefits of the Madeira Free Zone to the creation of stable and full-time jobs ( BE ), draft resolution No 300 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of the Community Legal Framework in order to increase transparency in financial transactions ( PSD ), projects of lein.o 255 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes measures to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime by prohibiting or limiting commercial or professional relations or occasional transactions with entities based in offshore centres or non-cooperating offshore centres ( CFP ), 256 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defines the terms in which any company is considered resident for tax purposes, ensuring that its income is taxed in Portugal ( PCP ), 257 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increases tax rates for financial operations to entities subject to a clearly more favourable tax system under the terms of the stamp tax ( PCP ), 258 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increases income tax rates and transfers to entities subject to clearly more favourable tax schemes under the IRC ( CFP ), 259 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increases income tax rates and transfers to entities subject to clearly more favourable tax schemes under the IRS ( CFP ), 260 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Change the conditions under which a country, region or territory may be considered to be clearly more favourable tax regime ( CFP ), 261 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Bans cash payments above EUR 3000 ( PS ) and 262 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — prohibits the issue of securities to the carrier ( PS ), draft resolution No 317 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening and deepening of European coordination and action on transparency in the field of taxation and financial transactions ( PS ), projects of lein. 263 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — lays down rules for payments made in cash ( CDS-PP ) and draft resolutions 362 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to increase the coordination of European action in the area of tax transparency and the fight against tax evasion ( CDS-PP ), 363 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends consideration of the creation of a central register of securities in the context of the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 849, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 ( CDS-PP ), and 365 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures for the automatic exchange of tax information and the prevention of money laundering within the framework of the transposition of Community directives ( PSD ). At the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I wish everyone a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 8 minutes.]]
