ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Before we begin the agenda, which consists of the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister on the National Reform Programme, I will give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the motions for resolutions ( 1 / XIII ) have been accepted ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed on 8 April 2015, which falls to 2. the Commission, and 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Sultanate of Oman to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in Lisbon on 28 April 2015, which also falls to 2. the Commission. They also entered the Table the projects of lein.o 141 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Tenth amendment to the Statute of Members ( CFP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 142 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of the Holders of Political Charges and High Public Charges ( Eighth amendment to Law No 64 / 93 of 26 August ) ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 143 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 28 / 2000 of 29 November defining and regulating the honours of the National Pantheon ( PS ), 144 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Eliminates the possibility of instructing and initiating proceedings by the Tax Authority for the collection of moderate rates ( amends Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November 2011 ) ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, with connection to 5. the Commission, 145 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — In defence of medical training of excellence, ensuring the completion of the common year and access to specialized training for all physicians ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May 2015 ) ( BE), 146 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Combats the modern forms of forced labour by amending the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009, the fifth amendment to the Legal Regime of the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work, approved by Law No 102 / 2009 of 10 September 2009 and the third amendment to the Legal Regime of the Exercise and Licensing of the Private Employment and Temporary Working Agencies, approved by Decree-Law No 260 / 2009 of 25 September ( PS ). Draft resolutions 191 / XIII ( 1 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — Strategic plan for the implementation of the organized and population-based screening of rectal cancer ( The Greens ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 192 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the new hospital for the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PS ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 193 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends recovery of production and processing of medron ( PCP ), 194 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Aims at strengthening the means and powers of the Working Conditions Authority and ensuring the effectiveness of its intervention ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 195 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government oppose the renewal of the authorisation of Glyphosate use in the European Union and prohibit its use in Portugal ( PAN ), 196 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to combat tuna beet ( BE ) which fall to 7. the Commission, 197 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide continuous insulin infusion ( SPCI ) therapy to all children with diabetes up to 14 years of age ( BE ) who are down to 9. the Commission, 198 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the culture of the midwife and production of midwifery ( BE ), 199 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Mozambique ( President of the HR ), 200 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Germany ( President of the HR ) and 201 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of measures to combat Diabetes ( PS ) ; and draft deliberation No 6 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — proposes the award of the title of Honorary Member to Members of the Constituent Assembly of 1975 - 1976 ( President of the HR and PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN ). In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u3	We will start the agenda with the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister on the National Reform Programme, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: We have lived in recent years on the idea that "structural reforms" necessarily imply the path to reducing labour rights, privatization of strategic sectors and the reduction of social rights. The fact is that the results of these structural reforms are known to everyone today: economic growth has been unsatisfactory for 15 years and people's well-being and social rights have been severely restricted without an effective result in favour of competitiveness. The recent analysis carried out by the European Commission in the framework of the European Semester confirms this analysis and reveals the persistence of a series of structural imbalances which are obstacles to the potential growth of the Portuguese economy. in describing the obstacles to growth in Portugal, the Commission refers to topics such as qualifications, innovation, transfer of knowledge to the economy, indebtedness of companies, long-term unemployment, accentuated inequalities and poverty, emigration, state modernization or the need to relaunch investment in Portugal. It is from this diagnosis of the problems that we have sought to build the set of priorities of the National Reform Programme. We can't mistake the causes again with the consequences. We have to do what is necessary, and what is needed is to attack the real structural blocks to our development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The first priority that this diagnosis reveals is that of the qualification of Portuguese. Despite the success of the reduction in school dropout in the last decade and the path made in the past 40 years, indicators continue to reveal our deficit in qualifications vis-à-vis the OECD average and in particular the European Union. To respond to this deficit, the National Reform Programme defines a set of measures that promote equality in access, combating school failure, innovation in the education system and adult training Still in the field of qualifications, it is important not only to look at education and training, but also to the quality of employment. And, in this context, the precariousness of work in Portugal is a problem that is necessary and urgent to overcome. Precautionaryness offends dignity, but it is also an enemy of productivity and therefore priority is given to the measures to be included in the national programme against the precariousness we will discuss in the social dialogue and in this House of the Republic. The second priority is innovation in the Portuguese economy. Portugal has already achieved — and must resume — a significant investment effort in the recovery of scientific and technological delay. We need to promote the relationship between science, technology and innovation in the economy. Only this dynamic will support the trajectory of diversification of exports and production of goods and services with greater incorporation of national added value, gaining competitiveness with value and not collective impoverishment at the expense of low wages. The third priority is that of valuing the territory, in its multiple facets: the sea, the interface with the Iberian Market, the cities. Urban regeneration is a priority. Conscious of the impact of decades of urban operations focused on the construction of new homes and on the extension of urban perimeters that have cleared city centres, we are making an important bet on a new generation of urban regeneration policies, focused on the rehabilitation of the building and on improving energy efficiency. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fourth priority is the modernization of the State. in a state that wants to be modern, it is necessary to improve its strategic intervention capacity. This requires a simpler State, a more intelligent State, which is not consumed and exhausted in its bureaucracy, which is a closer and inclusive State, endowed with dynamic public administration, with capacity to innovate and with motivated officials. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fifth priority highlighted by the European Commission is the need for the capitalisation of our companies. It is undeniable that Portuguese companies have significant imbalances in over-indebtedness, in particular through bank financing. The creation of the Capitalisation programme is precisely designed to respond to this urgent need for corporate capitalisation through equity in order to facilitate their ability to invest and help to transmit the monetary policy of the European Central Bank to our real economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The sixth and final priority is cohesion and social equality. This work has already begun to be done in the 2016 Budget, with the beginning of the recovery of income and the replacement of social minimums. The continuation of this strategy is due to the deepening of social justice, particularly through the increase in the progressiveity of the IRS steps. But it is also necessary, because it is a decisive factor in our social policy, to bet on our public services, in particular to bet on the National Health Service, solving the problems of access that persist and diversifying the supply with primary care and continuous care that allow more efficient use of national resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This National Reform Programme should not be a government programme; it should be a programme for the whole of society. This is how we want to discuss it with the social partners, with universities and politicians, with all economic, social and cultural actors and with the different political forces represented in this Parliament. That is why we present the general lines of the National Reform Programme here today, more than a month before it has to be delivered to Brussels. That is why we are submitting it to an intense parliamentary debate in the coming weeks, with several debates already scheduled with the presence of different ministers in this House of the Republic. Today, we are just opening the debate. We started the process of building a National Programme which is what Country needs to solve the structural blockades that have kept the economy stagnant for 15 years; a Programme that allows us to resume convergence with the European Union, breaking this long cycle that must end and in which the recession has alternated with insufficient growth. Turning the page of this trajectory is to give a new impetus to convergence with the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the question stage, which will be put by the various parliamentary committees. To put questions by the PSD, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, brought Mr Prime Minister to the opening of the discussion the Government's intentions regarding the National Reform Plan. As you know, the National Reform Plan seeks to articulate national policy options with the 2020 Strategy of the European Union, and also with the objectives set by the European Commission itself and the Council after carrying out annual growth analysis. This means that for the European Commission, in aggregate terms, we need to significantly strengthen the investment bet, because that is essential for the recovery of the economy. We need to step up structural reforms in order to give greater intensity to the recovery of the competitiveness of European countries and we need to ensure fiscal consolidation efforts. The European Commission has also made an assessment of macroeconomic imbalances in Portugal and, as Mr Prime Minister pointed out, this acquis has not evolved significantly in recent years. I mean, the structural problems that the country has are not problems for the last four or eight years are problems for several years. However, we know the blockades that caused them and the consequences that we had to bear, as a society, because we did not have the courage to face the reforms that were necessary. This is how many of the structural problems that we have accumulated in particular in unemployment and debt, both private and public, were the result of sectors protected by the national economy that have remained for too many years, of labour regimes that did not benefit from job creation, research and innovation levels that did not achieve the appropriate level of achievement in the economic and business world and in the life of businesses and a deficit of old qualifications in the country. Mr. Prime Minister, this assessment has been done for many years. That is why, when doing an exercise like this, it is important to listen to and involve political society and civil society. That is exactly what the previous government has done. It is good to note the difference between the Prime Minister, António Costa, and the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, António Costa, in the opposition. A year ago, when we invited the Socialist Party to participate intensely in this process, the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party referred us to a vague document that had... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u7	...and it was complementing that, after the elections, we would talk about it, but not before it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u8	Well, we will not repeat this attitude that the Socialist Party had at the time. [[PSD applause.]] however, we want to remember that there needs to be compatibility between the political rhetoric and the public policies that proceed so that there is no rhetorical exercise that generally refers to what was already, for example, in our Partnership Agreement with the European Commission and what are the objectives of Portugal 2020 itself and what is then the political practice of the government. Now, Prime Minister, here the contradictions are immense. And even contradictions that clash with what are the objectives of the European Commission at aggregate level and some of the references you have also made about Portugal. It seems clear, of course, that if we need to capture more investment and dynamize the economy further, then we cannot, in political practice, start to scare investors. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u9	And that's what the government did, right at the beginning. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u10	In the parliamentary coalition that hit the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, the first thing he did was announce his firm willingness to reverse several of the structural reforms that had already been made before. And with this, of course, threatening — because this was the case, a threat — to have the majority of the capital of TAP again, to walk back in concessions, to put an end to rigour in education, with the end of the examinations, and out there. In practice, the government says one thing and does another.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u12	Now, I believe that the Government had committed itself, before the Eurogroup and the European Commission, not to revert any of the structural measures that had already been agreed upon... And, look, these measures were agreed not by the government but by the country, because the government then represented the country, so it was between the country and the European institutions. But, as I was saying, the current government has undertaken not to reverse these structural reforms until it assesses them. We know that you can no longer meet this commitment literally because you have already reverted several things, but you asked the Minister, very specifically, what measures you are taking to assess these reforms, what instruments you will use to make that assessment and when you will present to the country and the European Commission the impact assessment of the structural reforms that have been carried out. This is because in the report of the European Commission, which Mr Prime Minister mentioned, a very positive point is given about the importance of the reforms that the country has already made in recent years. I therefore ask Mr Prime Minister whether he agrees with the European Commission, but above all what instruments he will use and when he will have produced the impact assessment work of the reforms that have been made. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u13	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u14	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, in these discussions I have with you, I always feel a little convinced that the present is only the point of meeting between the past and the future. This is because, whenever we come here to talk about the future, you tell us about the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When we talk about the reforms that the country needs to strengthen the qualifications of the Portuguese, the reforms that the country needs to improve innovation in the economy, the reforms that the country needs to value the territory, the reforms that the country needs to modernise the state, the reforms that the country needs to combat poverty and inequality, the reforms that the country needs to capitalize on businesses, the Member, instead of talking about what the country needs, behaves here as guardian of the reforms that he has done while he was government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, we can, if you wish, now have the debates that we did not have when you were Prime Minister and I, being the leader of the opposition, was not a Member, so we could not debate both here. Perhaps it would be nice to go back to the past. For me, I assure you that it would be a waste of time and one thing I am sure: for the country this debate about the past is totally useless. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I tried to help you get to the debate about the future,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u15	Help him? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u16	... not based the analysis on the last four years, but on the last 15 years. If we look at the long series of the Portuguese economy from 2001 to today, what we have seen is that in 2001 we are interrupting years of great economic growth and convergence with the European Union. Between 1996 and 2001, the year of the First Government of Eng Guterres, we had growths that ranged from 3 to 5 % to 4 %, 8 %. From that time until today, the best year was 2007, with a growth of 2, 4 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] With the exception of 2007, we have alternated years of recession with years of mediocre growth and in the last 15 years we have had two PS governments, two coalition governments, one majority and another minority. What we have to do is not restart each legislature with a limited analysis of our problems saying that everything that is wrong has been done in the previous four years, but to realize, once and for all, that there are structural problems that we have to face. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the European Commission's report has said is that at the end of the four years and the action of its government we have this set of structural problems. What I am interested in today is not knowing what you have done as Prime Minister; what matters to the country today is what we will all do to respond to these structural problems that the country has to face,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and this is the debate on the National Reform Programme. One year ago, what I sent you was not a vague document, it was a document called "Agenda for the Decade", an extensive, detailed document on which are the structural reforms that the country effectively needs to respond to the problems it has to address. Now, the balance we can make of your government action is that your government action started with an analysis error and continued with a therapy error. The error of analysis was to have always found that the cause of our problems was deficit and debt and never realized that deficit and debt are the result of our low growth problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He then went on with an error of therapy, thinking that the problem of competitiveness was solved by a crash of impoverishment, the destruction of rights and the privatization of strategic sectors of the economy. What the European Commission has said is that none of this has helped to solve the structural problems of the country! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, what we see today is that the European Commission comes to say in the report that the deregulation of labour law, the destruction of collective bargaining, did not make it possible for companies to pay better according to their capacity, but instead served to impoverish and stimulate the emigrant cycle, as we had not since the 1960s, and which significantly reduced the growth potential of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No, Mr President, the solution is not to continue to impoverish, the solution is to qualify human resources, to qualify in business innovation, to qualify in the modernization of the State, to qualify in the enhancement of the territory. Yes, it's the qualification that's missing, it's not the impoverishment! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u17	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, I believe that you are very often mistaken when you refer to the past. It was not me who referred to the past, it was Mr. Prime Minister, either in the diagnosis he drew, either when he said, and well, that we needed to attack the cause of our problems. Well, that doesn't start now, Prime Minister, it's already started. And it is important, for that reason, that we can evaluate in the first generation reforms that have been made, what has gone better and what has gone worse so that we can introduce the corrections that are necessary in all the structural reforms that have already been carried out and, secondly, to set out a new generation of reforms that can deepen these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u19	What reforms were these?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u20	Mr. Prime Minister, what brought us here was no reform, it was intentions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u21	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u22	Mr. Prime Minister thinks that he presented the National Reform Plan on his main lines and that he presented reforms, but I have not yet seen any reform there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u23	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u24	I have observed, I have read a set of objectives with which we all agree more or less. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] The problem, Prime Minister, is that we just don't want to talk only about the objectives — some will be more realistic, some less. We need to know what strategy is followed and what is done to get there. That's what's important. You are talking about the qualification of human resources. I tell you, for example, that ending exams in education makes the quality of education worse. [[PSD applause.]] You're thinking about the wrong strategy so you can improve qualifications! [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] We need to have a lower early school dropout rate. The target was 10 % by 2020. You know, Mr. Prime Minister, in 2015, she was already at 13, 7%, almost half of what she was in 2010. [[PSD applause.]] We have made many progress there and today it is very possible to get there. But, Prime Minister, it is not possible to get there if we have the wrong strategy and that is the fundamental point. We are and will be available in all these debates to discuss the reforms and the measures that are necessary, but so far all the most relevant, symbolic, which the Government has presented in the main areas and structural bottlenecks we have are wrong. We were still aware today of the intention of resignation...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u25	No, INE?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u26	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u27	I shall conclude, Mr President. I was saying the resignation of the Chairman of the ADP Group. The Government's intention to reverse the reform of the water sector is well known, which has been praised by the European Commission. [[Protests of PS and BE Members.]] Mr. Prime Minister, all the data that the Government displays are contrary to the objective of overcoming natural bottlenecks. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that the Government has chosen to devote today's debate to the National Reform Plan. But I would like to remind the Prime Minister that the PSD has asked him a number of questions about the financial system, to which Mr Prime Minister has not yet answered. As it has been customary not to answer, it would give him the opportunity, in this debate, at the time that he is still left, to be able to answer the questions that we have put to him, but to the issues that we have put to him and not to those which we have not done to him. [[Greetings from the PSD, with Members standing up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u28	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u29	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your success on your bench, which can only be a good convention next weekend. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, as far as the strategy is concerned, we understand because we all remember what the strategy was. [[PSD protests.]] Your strategy was to cut wages, cut pensions. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u30	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not make this meeting too tense and create the conditions for us to continue. Please continue, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u31	I'll try, Mr. President, but it's not easy. As for the modernization of the state, the Simplex was put in the drawer; as for innovation, there was a fight against science policy; there was an increase in the rate of failure, a decrease in the rate of preschool and a decrease in the number of students attending higher education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u32	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u33	You want a concrete measure and I will give it to you: we will universalize pre-primary education for all children up to 3 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u34	It's fake! It's a PSD measure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u35	That little night is wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u36	Despite the pre-school awakening this ironic smile and violently dislike your bench, the truth is only one:... [[PSD protests.]] ... still this week, the National Education Council revealed that the school failure rate of children who had access to preschool and children who had not access to school shows a 50% difference. Thus, universalizing preschool is creating conditions to improve education and definitely combat school failure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The difference in policy and strategy is here. For us, the priority is to promote the success of the educational course of children. Its strategy is only one: it is the belief that the more exams, the more lead there are and the more lead, the better the race of the elect is drawn. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u37	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, the State budget comes into force tomorrow, but part of the income recovery measures that were part of the agreement we established — rising the national minimum wage, recovering unconstitutionally cut into public service, reducing overtaxation — have been in force since January. When these measures were adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, the right said the disaster would come. This is the last 15-year debate of 1. the quarter and I know that it is still early to have final accounts, but, with the available data, I ask you to confirm that there is a disaster in the implementation of the budget. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u39	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have two good news: the first one, which has nothing to do with forecasts of what is going to happen but with the measurement of what has already happened, is the data released today by the National Institute of Statistics. After five months of falling, the economic climate recovered in February and March, after the adoption of the budget rules, as well as improved consumer confidence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The other good news is that the budget implementation so far available indicates that we are meeting the targets we had set and that we are now following the budget consolidation path that we had proposed to achieve throughout this year. These are two good news, Your Honor. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u41	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, I thank you for your reply. I would like to propose the following exercise: if the budget implementation data show that there is no disaster, on the contrary, we know that the country has problems, but things are going, if the recovery of income is in the State budget and if it has been proven, with its approval, that there is no inevitable and that democracy can make choices, but if the economic data also show that there is still not enough growth to create the job that the country needs, this is not the time for public investment. The Left Block responds to its responsibilities in what we have done and what we need to do. And the fall of public investment in the 2016 Budget is one of the most worrying data for the Block because it prevents us from responding to two decisive challenges: the net creation of quality and rights jobs and the modernisation of our economy. So the question I have to ask you is: if the budget implementation data remain positive, balanced, does the government plan to increase public investment by 2016 in order to stimulate our economy, or are we interested only in the deficit? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u43	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question even seems to be combined, because you know the answer in advance. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u45	As you know, we are not only interested in the deficit, and that is why the bet we have defined and the priority we have given to the recovery of family incomes, because this recovery is essential. We started it in the 2016 Budget, we continue it in other policies outside the Budget, such as the negotiation in the social consultation of the increase of the minimum wage, and we will continue, as agreed, in the next Budgets. We must strengthen investment, the public and the private, and that is why we have said that the second axis of economic recovery, along with the increase in the income available to families, is that we can have better conditions for companies to be able to invest. from this point of view, the Capitalisation programme is absolutely essential. Ask me about public investment. We need to create conditions in order to increase this investment. The limits of public investment this year are those of the State Budget which we have approved here and which will enter into force tomorrow. The effort we are making is also an effort to accelerate the available Community funds so as to speed up the implementation of the funds available for investment. But there is another important fact, which is the selection of the investment that we should do and that has to do with this National Reform Programme. If we compare, for example, what were the funds provided for in Portugal 2020 and the reallocation that we envisage, according to this National Reform Programme, we also see that the investment strategy is different from that in Portugal 2020. On the subject of qualifications, what we have found is that there is a EUR 500 million increase in adult education and training in respect of what was planned in Portugal 2020. As regards vocational education in secondary education, there is an increase of EUR 400 million in relation to what was planned for Portugal 2020. With regard to active employment policies, there is a reinforcement of EUR 150 million in respect of what existed in Portugal 2020, and with regard to combating poverty, there is a reinforcement of EUR 150 million in respect of what was planned in Portugal 2020. Yes, we need not only more investment as better investment, and good and bad investment is done according to the strategic choices we make. Now, the National Reform Programme is this: it is a strategic grid of options in which we give priority to qualifications and not to the breakdown of wages; we give priority to business innovation and not to reforms of labour law; we give priority to the enhancement of the territory and not to the emptying of the territory by the State services; we give priority to administrative simplification and not simply to the closure of public services. Yes, this is another strategy to manage and cope with this crisis, to overcome it in a more inclusive way but also to strengthen the competitiveness of our economy as a whole. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u46	You have the floor, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u47	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, there are two other issues I would like to discuss with you later, but in this debate we need some precision on employment. That's what's in everybody's head. We need public investment to get jobs and we need reforms to get jobs; if we don't have jobs, it's all worth nothing, it's zero. Employment is undoubtedly the biggest deficit in our country. in fact, in the election campaign, the Socialist Party had a very strict forecast of employment. If I am not mistaken — Minister Mário Centeno will correct - if I am wrong - the Socialist Party's bet was more than 200 000 jobs in four years. Now, when we are seeing the National Reform Plan, we need to know what the job creation projection is in which the National Reform Plan is based. What are these projects? What are the projects, from the point of view of energy efficiency, the country's energy balance, the decarbonisation of the economy, urban rehabilitation? How are all these projects implemented in employment numbers? That is, what are the net job creation goals that will be in the Stability Programme?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u49	This National Reform Plan leads to what Stability Programme, to what employment? And that's the answer people need today. If the Government is unable to respond to the net job creation with the National Reform Plan, then the Plan does not serve anyone. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u50	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u51	Mr President, Madam Member, I thank you for your question and I reply that we do not make the National Reform Programme on the basis of the CFP (Stabilisation and Growth Programme ), we will do the CFP as a consequence of the National Reform Programme, which results from a fundamental document, which is the Government Programme, and from the analysis we make of the structural blockades of our economy. And it is to confront these structural blocks that the National Reform Programme has a set of pillars that unfold in a set of axes and each axis in a set of measures. We already know the fundamental structure of the Programme and, at the moment, we present it in an open spirit — we present it in the Assembly of the Republic, we will present it tomorrow in social consultation, we present it for debate to the whole of society. in the coming weeks, several government members will be here having sectoral discussions and we will have a debate at the end of the month on the National Reform Programme itself. The work of preparing the CFP that will be done will take into account the consolidation of the National Reform Programme. We do not have a magic number of which results in an employment formula, we have a set of policies that aim to create jobs and we will achieve a result from these policies as a whole. This will be the result that will be expressed in the CFP and we have not built a Programme to conform to the objective we have set in advance. That was the work we did before the elections, and that is the work we do now, in government action. We have a set of measures that effectively aim to act on employment, both in combating precariousness and in combating urban rehabilitation, both in terms of innovation policies and business capitalization, and in terms of increasing public investment. All these policies will be translated into the net increase in jobs to be created and that must be the main objective of our policy. So the triple design we have always had is more growth, better employment and greater equality, and this is still our design. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u52	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u53	Mr President, Prime Minister, we will be here to discuss the Stability Programme on the basis of reforms, ensuring that there is public investment, job creation and, of course, employment that is not precarious but job worthy of that name. Mr. Prime Minister, I have two questions to ask you and I do not think you will mind putting them right away so I can answer both, although they are quite different themes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u54	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u55	The first is about the National Barrage Plan. The deadline for the re-evaluation of the Programme expires tomorrow. Portugal has too many barriers and some obey contractual and operating schemes that favor EDP, with the detriment of public history and the environment. For example, there is a worsening of the issues of coastal erosion in the country. in the last decade, all the choices about dams that were made by the various governments have worsened the problem. There are two iconic examples: one is the barrier of Foz Tua, whose construction was announced in 2006, which is an attack against the cultural, environmental heritage and the communities themselves in that region, and the insistence on its construction, against the criticism of the population and environmentalists, is a symbol of the power of EDP and a policy that underlies social interest and environmental protection to the logic of markets and businesses. The other great example is the barrier of Fridão, for which, recently, both local associations as well as the National Water Institute and even the National Civil Protection Authority have been warned that, in the event of a possible serious crash or accident, the water would, in a catastrophic way, reach the historical centre of Amarante in less than a quarter of an hour. Mr. Prime Minister, the Minister of the Environment has recently given an interview in which he intends to demolish 10 dams. We welcome this decision, which begins a necessary path. My question is this: recognizing that the country has more dams, what meaning does the insistence on the construction of these new dams, namely that of the Foz Tua and Fridão? Isn't this the time for the government to put the National Barrage Plan in the trash can? [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the second question I have to ask you is quite different from this one, but I can't stop doing it today. It's about Angola and the condemnation of 17 activists for the terrible crime they're reading a book. The political decision of the judiciary in Angola confirms what we already knew: Angola is a dictatorship. [[Congratulations from BE and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]] And complicit silence, whether in the name of business or politics, is something we cannot accept. We have noted the reaction of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva, stressing that the process must comply with the founding principles of the rule of law, including the right of peaceful opposition to the constituted authorities. We also noted that Portugal will be monitoring the case by both bilateral and European Union diplomatic channels. Mr. Prime Minister, these activists are political prisoners. We are in a debate in the Portuguese Parliament, which is House of Freedom and Democracy, and I think this is the place for Mr. Prime Minister to leave...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u56	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u57	Finally, Mr President, saying that this is the place for Mr. Prime Minister to leave a clear word for the release of Angolan political prisoners. [[Congratulations from BE and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u58	To answer in a very short time, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u59	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, answering the first question, the Ministry of the Environment has concluded the process of re-evaluation of dams in the National Barrage Plan and whose works have not yet begun, as well as the lifting of the licensing of mini-waters which are licensed or in the licensing process, of dams and needles which are obsolete and which can be demolished and also the fixing of minimum ecological flows and the installation of devices that measure the rigor of the tails. This work is being completed, as was planned at the end of this month, and in the next 15 days, the Minister has taken a final position on the evaluation of these results with the authorities of the different regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u60	I ask you to synthesize, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u61	We don't think we should do it without hearing the autarchs involved. That is what will be done within the next 15 days and will be fixed within that period. Madam President, in view of the time limit, allow me to answer the second question simply by reading what is to be reaffirmed here, which is what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already said: "We take good note of the communication, by defence, of the intention to bring a judicial remedy in the face of the gravity and extent of the penalties decided today by the Court of First Instance and we trust that the processing of the proceedings, in accordance with Angolan law, obeys the founding principles of the rule of law, including the right of peaceful opposition to the constituted authorities." [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u62	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Mrs. Assumption Cristas, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u63	Mr President, Prime Minister today, I am not interested in talking about the State Budget for 2016 which is in twelfths,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u64	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u65	... being therefore extraordinary to talk about meeting the goals of a budget in twelfths.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u66	It has already entered into force on 1 January!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u67	I will first talk about a State Budget that has completed its implementation, which is the State Budget for 2015. And why? Because for Portuguese, Portuguese companies and Portuguese families it is very important to know whether or not we leave the excessive deficit procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u69	This may seem technical but has an impact on the day-to-day Portuguese. Tomorrow we will have the notification to Brussels on this matter. Today, I would expect Mr Prime Minister — and we are already going to reform — to give us good news on this matter. My question is: what is the 2015 deficit? Does it stay within 3 % or not? Is the effect of BANIF eliminated, as Mr Minister for Finance announced last December? Is the Prime Minister's promise of January this year that we will be less than 3 % and therefore free from excessive deficit procedure is fulfilled? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u70	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the fact that we are now beginning this dialogue which, I assume, will continue for 15 years and so I would like to give you a special compliment. The honourable Member has perhaps forgotten that the measures which have criticised so much and which have said they are impossible do not enter into force tomorrow but are in force since the beginning of January: the replacement of wages, the elimination of over-tax and the replacement of pensions are in force since January. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as the deficit is concerned, I believe that it is public knowledge that what the INE has already revealed in relation to the recovery of the deficit. Without discounting the operation relating to BANIF, the deficit was 4 %, and if we discount 1, 4 % on BANIF, it is 3, 0 %. These are the data provided by INE. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u72	"Ah" what? Oh, my God! I don't understand the "Ah"! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let's see the following: if the "Ah! » is of satisfaction,... [[It's not, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u73	... my merit is small, because it is only 20 days, due in 345 days, in particular, to Mrs Cristian Assumption. If "Ah! » means demerit, then, mine is only 20 days and the demerit of the remaining 345 days will be someone else. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we did, and we said, was to strive, in the 20 days that we had ahead, to ensure that the goals would be met. Of course, the government's target of 2,7 % was not met, but we made an effort not to exceed 3 %. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] As regards the qualification of the operation of BANIF as being relevant or not for the purpose of excessive deficit, I can only tell you what the Portuguese Government's understanding is: this operation must be applied the understanding that Commissioner Olli Rehn expressed, while he was a Commissioner, that such operations should not be counted for the purpose of the excessive deficit procedure. I hope that the European Commission will remain consistent in its interpretation and that the replacement of Commissioner Olli Rehn by new Commissioners has not made the Commission involve its position. from our point of view, Commissioner Olli Rehn's interpretation is the one that is worth it. If the Commission maintains that understanding, we will see. But, as you will understand, I cannot anticipate the wise judgment that the Commission will make on this matter at the right time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u74	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u75	Mr President, Prime Minister, I hope that we can have good news and conclude that in this matter the Government has made a loud voice before the European Commission and has achieved its objectives. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The second question I want to ask you has to do with the National Reform Programme. I must tell you that in the time I had to take a look at you I was very disappointed because I saw no news, Prime Minister. What I saw were things that came back, I saw things that were and are in the objectives of the Community funds, in fact, the EUR 11 billion are from the Community funds and therefore had to be aligned with the objectives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u76	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u77	...and scared me, Mr. Prime Minister,
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u78	Afraid? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u79	... that there was no line on the reform of the pension system, on social security, on the organization of work throughout life and on this matter - it seems to me that there is a lot to talk about. I must tell you that we have an elephant in the middle of the room, which is knowing that today those who are discounted for social security will probably only receive at home 60% of what is your salary today and my question is what we are going to tell you tomorrow who will start discounting for social security. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, I ask you whether it is possible to present a National Reform Programme by passing on to this theme and thereby qualify this program as the National Reform Programme. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u80	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sad that I have been disappointed, but I must tell you that your disappointment is probably the satisfaction of many Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because the National Reform Programme which, last year, the previous Government, which you joined, here presented in the area of social security, was the one that had the announcement of a court, a new cut of 600 million euros in the pensions they were paying. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u82	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u83	Therefore, as far as you are dissatisfied with not finding in our draft National Reform Programme this commitment that you have made to cut more EUR 600 million to pensioners, I regret that you are disappointed, but I am sure that all pensioners are comforted by knowing that your pensions have ceased to be the subject of political play and have become a guarantee of the rule of law, which will responsibly fulfil the obligations it has to each of the pensioners. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u84	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u85	Mr President, Prime Minister, I had a certain idea that we had finished the election campaign, but I must be wrong and we should be next! I would like to tell you that on the part of the CDS you will always have a very constructive attitude to discuss what is relevant, that is important for the lives of people, whether the way in which work is organized throughout your life, combining work and family, looking at the issues of birth, the ageing of the population, and not forgetting that there is a response that we have to give, that is serious and that is not populist, in terms of pension systems. We are going to work this thoroughly and I hope that you are available to discuss this issue, from the technical point of view. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Still about the National Reform Programme, I wanted to ask you about another document, which is the Stability Programme. Finally, Mr President, the Socialist Party has scheduled for the whole month a series of debates on the National Reform Programme, but strangely enough, for the Stability Programme, which, in essence, has the reflection of all these matters, we have very little time at the end of the month. My question is what Mr. Prime Minister wants to hide when he does not bring the Stability Programme in order to be discussed in step. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u86	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the commitment of the constructive attitude and have sought to distinguish the attitude of the CDS-PP, which objectively registers with respect to other partisan forces which have not held the same position. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the discussion of the State budget, even on the leadership of Mr. Paulo Portas, have already given some sign of this different attitude and I am sure that, under his leadership, this differentiation will be much clearer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u88	Answer me, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u89	I answer yes, Mrs Deputy, you don't need to be impatient. As the honourable Member has said, well, the Stability Programme should not be anything but the reflection of the National Reform Programme. I said it and I said it right. And so we have to stabilize the National Reform Programme. What we have presented were the general lines of the National Reform Programme and we have the CDS, all the forces of the Assembly of the Republic, the social partners and the society as a whole, to develop the debate on the National Reform Programme. We will hold these sectoral debates here where we will have a debate on the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, even before the final version will be adopted in the Council of Ministers and go to Brussels, because what we promise we will do is not hide anything, nor will the National Reform Programme, nor will the Stability Programme go to Brussels without Parliament first knowing them and discussing them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u90	I would like to address Mrs Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u91	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I will wait, but I have the biggest doubts, because, when the Banco de Portugal raises doubts about growth, when the Council of Public Finance tells us that it is necessary to cut EUR 5000 million in three years, when the Government has the opportunity to present the Stability Programme and does not do so, what I think is that this is a smoke curtain, but we will wait to see what appears and what is hidden in this Stability Programme. I would also like to mention one aspect, and Mr Prime Minister still has time to answer, has to do with fuel issues. I remember that in the State budget we had the question of fiscal neutrality on the table. on February 2, just to give an example, the gas oil was 1, 045 €, yesterday was 1, 16 €. My question is whether the tax will come down or whether the safes will fatten at the expense of the taxpayers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u92	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to exhaust all the time I have available, I will only say the following: the essential thing is price stability and what we have checked is that, by comparing March 15 to December 31, gasoline costs less than 4 cents what it cost and gas oil more than 1 cent what it cost. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u94	Mrs. Christian Assumption, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u95	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if that means that we are going to have fiscal neutrality for the taxpayer and that it will come down when we come down, we will certainly all be satisfied. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you one question on another subject, which has to do with banking supervision. Two days ago, another committee started in this Parliament on the fifth, which deals with this issue. We will endeavour to study bank supervision in depth, proposing changes in this area. There is one that implies changing the Constitution and which has to do with the form of appointment of the Governor of Banco de Portugal. I ask you whether or not Mr Prime Minister is available for a constitutional review, which certainly extends to other subjects, but which includes this aspect. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u96	You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u97	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, I spoke to you this morning as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, in which I was able to answer that question. As you know, if there is an entity that is not part of a constitutional review is the Government. But for no one to doubt what I think, I would like to remind you: the PS proposed last year before the end of the term of office of the then Governor, that the process of appointing the Governor of the Banco de Portugal should be changed. The majority then refused to consider this hypothesis in the first place. He got hurt and decided how he decided.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u98	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u99	There is one thing I can tell you, we will never defend, or rather, the PS will never defend, any constitutional review of man, to make a constitutional review that determines the resignation of a governor who is in office. And we say this with the will of, when we were informed of the choice, we had the opportunity to transmit to the then Prime Minister what we thought about the choice. But we believe that, in a rule of law, we must guarantee the stability of an independent authority and, therefore, it is not now that a constitutional review is made to replace the Governor who was appointed when they understood to appoint him. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u100	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs. Christian Assumption. Although the Prime Minister does not have much time to answer, he can and should of course use the time still available. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u101	Mr President, Prime Minister, of course any transitional rule solves this problem of not interrupting any current mandate. I had three questions to ask you. If I then understand how to respond at another time I am very grateful but, in any case, I will do so. The first question has to do with the Port Metro. How does it justify the reversal of a concession that was made, first by public tender and then by direct adjustment, in the course of this competition? And how is it justified to have laid it down later, then, without any public procedure, to extend a concession for another two years? [[Good question!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u102	The second question is: how much money do you have for agricultural funds? It is because the Minister for Agriculture has been present in the budgetary debate and has never been able to answer that question, which has to do with his National Reform Programme and which needs to be answered, to stop talking about matters relating to support for milk or pig farming. The third question is also linked to its National Reform Programme. As you know, valuing our territory also means valuing our sea — 97% of our territory is sea. Moreover, Mr Prime Minister, for a Council of Special Ministers on the Sea, invited the former President of the Republic to preside. The new President of the Republic, in his investment, referred to the issue of the sea as central, and my question is this: last year the Government created the Blue Week and brought 70 ministers to Portugal to discuss the blue economy and to create a dynamic of international affirmation on this matter. I see that Mr. Prime Minister is laughing, but don't laugh, because it's no laughing matter! My question is whether or not it's going to happen on Blue Week. Mr Foreign Minister has already told me that yes, but I want to know how many ministers are already confirmed, how the government will value and it is understood that it is relevant, together with the sea economy fair, to take this initiative to attract investment to our country and to affirm Portugal as a leading nation in the matter of the sea. [[CDS-PP applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u103	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u104	Mr President, I ask my bench to applaud but do not stand up, which is not the case for so much! [[PCP laughter.]] [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u105	There's an advantage here: whoever gets up won't be arrested! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u106	This time must be discounted in time for intervention by Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u107	Mr Prime Minister, today he presented here the general lines of the Government's proposal for the debate of the National Reform Programme. We are not going to work here until, in the coming weeks, there will be a number of agendas which will allow this debate to be deepened in the Assembly of the Republic. This is a debate which will not fail to be carried out in conjunction with the planned Stability Programme. One thing is good to remember is that the European Union intends to ensure its impositions under the so-called European Semester — an instrument of open interference and interference in the definition of the macroeconomic policies of the States — which has largely been the source of the serious economic and social problems facing the country and that the previous government, the PSD and the CDS, was an enthusiastic executor. The European Commission's report for 2016 already contains serious concerns and realizes that the way in which the European Commission wishes to continue to impose is the same as the problems we are facing today, and therefore the contrary to what the country needs, that of responding to structural problems affecting it, particularly at the economic and social level. Given the position we have stated regarding the whole framework of the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, its nature and objective, we reaffirm that, in the view of the CFP, what is first placed is the guarantee of sovereign development with a policy free of external taxes, the recovery of the public control instruments of essential sectors, the promotion of national development and that Portugal is able to produce at pace that cannot be those of the last decade and a half. A policy that responds to the problems of unemployment, precariousness, poverty, foreign dependence in the country and answers to the continuing annual transfer of billions of euros in interest of public debt, freeing resources and financial resources that can be directed towards public and productive investment, support for productive sectors and social development. These are issues that we believe should continue to deserve priority of our concerns and should be central to this debate. That is why we would like to know what the Government's perspective is on them and how it fits into the debate we are doing here today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u108	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u109	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, it is true that some passages in the European Commission report show the European Commission's willingness to pursue a path which the country does not want to pursue - and, more importantly, that the country needs not to continue. But we must also look at the report of the European Commission and identify what is written there — and that persistently the right has insisted on never reading — as the structural causes of the blockades of our competitiveness. in this report, it is said, for example, that the low average level of workforce qualifications inhibits productivity and competitiveness, explaining here that investment in qualifications is absolutely strategic for, if we want, solving a structural blockade of our economy. Emigration is said to be jeopardizing Portugal's long-term growth potential. And it draws attention to how this emigrant cycle is negatively affecting our growth potential. And it is there explained that one of the causes of this emigration is the strategy of low wages, of deregulation of labour law and precariousness, which has pushed, above all, the youngest and most qualified for emigration. It is also written that long-term unemployment is heavily affecting economic growth and the social situation, that indicators of poverty and social exclusion have deteriorated since the beginning of the crisis, that families with children have been particularly affected, that more efforts are needed, in terms of employment, research and development, in terms of reducing early school dropout, completion of higher education and poverty reduction. It is also said that closer cooperation between universities and companies continues to be a challenge to increase the employability of graduates in all sectors and to promote innovation. What we have to do is look at the European Commission's report on its diversity and, on the basis of the European Commission's own analysis, build on the strategy that conforms to the effective response to national problems. And that's what we've been trying to do with the National Reform Programme. And that's what we're going to do. If there is a problem of qualifications, it is necessary to invest in qualifications; if there is a problem with emigration, there is a need to combat the causes of emigration; if there is a problem with long-term unemployment, this must be one of our priorities; if there is a need for greater innovation, we need to promote greater business innovation; if there is a high level of corporate over-indebtion, we must invest in corporate capitalisation. That's what we have to do. And it's not a fatality. It cannot be a fatality that the only chance we have of dialogue with the European Commission is to follow the policy that has followed, that our people have rejected and that we do not agree to continue. That is an inevitability that we do not accept. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u110	You have the floor, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u111	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is comforting to hear you say that. And indeed, it is true; the portrait there, of this policy of exploitation and impoverishment that the Portuguese have witnessed and have been victims, particularly in the last four years, is dramatic. But what rests us not is the conclusion of the European Commission which, after making that diagnosis, says that the recipe is the same and that it will have to continue to be applied. Now, there is a contradiction here that will certainly be clarified sooner than later. Mr. Prime Minister, another question has to do with the following: we have already brought to these discussions the problems of the bank and it has already been shown that bank management has been characterized by a strategy that aims at the maximum and rapid distribution of dividends by large shareholders. As a result, private banks are increasingly turning to support the economy and society and increasingly oriented towards tax evasion and money laundering, continuing to speculate and squander the social utility of citizens' savings. Many Portuguese ask about how many more bank failures will have to happen, how many more billions of euros is needed for the Portuguese State to inject these banks, until serious and effective measures are taken to ensure that this fundamental instrument for the development of the country is placed at once at the service of the national economy and Portuguese families. However, it insists on defending a solution that, it is known, does not solve any problems, rather, it only creates conditions for new and more serious problems. The question I want to ask you has to do with the fact that you insist once again on selling a national bank, being announced to tomorrow a first round of contacts in New York, aiming at the sale of the New Bank. This decision, as we know, is not disconnected from the framework of submission to the taxes of the European Commission and the ECB, which defend the concentration of the so-called European financial market in half a dozen European megabanks. in the development of this process, it takes particular attention to all the issues for which the CFP has called attention, when the Single Resolution Mechanism was created, i.e. the consequences of the realization of the gigantic merger and centralisation of the banking sector in the European Union and the loss by the States of few or almost no control, regulation and intervention powers on the bank, which they still hold. What is further prepared for this operation of the sale of the New Bank is another step towards banking concentration in the hands of foreign groups, which calls into question the sovereignty of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u112	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u113	He was asking for some tolerance...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u114	To such tolerance, tolerance is now in place, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u115	The problem is maintained, already announced by the current administration, of dismissal of workers whose interests will be affected because they lose their jobs, but it is also difficult to develop the activity of a bank under the public control of the Portuguese State. Mr. Prime Minister, as we have stated, life has come to confirm that there will be no national bank unless it is public. And we don't say it to record future memory, because there is still time and solution. For us the solution to the defence of national interests is the realization of the nationalisation of the New Bank. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u116	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u117	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, of course, the stability of our financial system is something that we must all be concerned about, not being able to have the attitude that existed in the past, to push forward, to let go, as if the problems were solved by you. As we have seen, the problems have not been solved by you and every problem that has not been solved has cost the Portuguese very much. Therefore, we cannot let it continue to be so, it is necessary to act. The sector faces some relevant structural problems. The current situation, as a result of the economic crisis and the result of the fall in interest rates, poses cost-effectiveness problems, while increasing demand for ratios by supervisory bodies. And all of this actually leads to a dynamic concentration at European level of our banking system. In this regard, we must have a vision of what we want for our financial system. And the first priority must be to defend at all costs the one who is the necessary pillar of the stability of the financial system, which is a 100 % General Deposit Box and strongly capitalized to have conditions to act and be a factor of stability throughout the market. Secondly, we must avoid that there can be — using an expression by Mr President of the Republic — an exclusive area of nationality in the banking system as a whole. We must guarantee the diversity of players in the banking system, because this is a guarantee of competition, that is a guarantee of national independence, that is a guarantee of better service to our economy. The New Bank issue is a sensitive issue to which no one can close doors. Today, we have heard people, very suspicious of being close to or even neighbors or friends of the CFP, defending solutions identical to what the CFP defends with regard to the New Bank. We, who are also suspicious of the proximity to these people, say the following: we must be open-minded, see what are the solutions that exist in particular and, in the face of the alternatives that effectively come forward, make a decision, with a fundamental criterion, to choose the one that best protects the taxpayers from this approach that this was a cost-free solution for taxpayers, and to the one that best protects the stability of the financial system and the conditions of financing the national economy. These are our criteria for the decision. And the decision will be taken when there is all the data that enable that decision to be taken. Until then, let's keep our dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u118	You now have the floor, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u119	Mr President, Prime Minister, on the National Reform Programme, I do not know whether Mr Prime Minister noticed recently at the beginning of the debate that Mr Pedro Passos Coelho made a very interesting statement, referring to a programme with objectives that we are all, more or less, in agreement. I would like to point out this because it represents a notable advance. And it represents an advance because, if Mr. Prime Minister well remembers, the reform objectives of the previous government did not have that "more or less agreement" of any bench—of course, they had a total disagreement of all the banks. That is why we are moving forward here towards a potential for consensus on objectives, which I think is extremely important and should be pointed out. And why were we totally at odds with the reform objectives of the previous government? Because they relied on what this Program does not reveal, that it was the cuts in social support, the cuts in social security, the mass entry and strength of the private in social functions of the State as important as education, health or social security. Now, this is furnished with these objectives and it is important that this be pointed out. However, the Greens also consider that this needs to be discussed and we need to know how we got there. But this debate will certainly not be held only in the thematic debates that are called for. For example, Mr. Prime Minister, next week, The Greens have already scheduled a bill that focuses on a proposal to reduce the number of students per class. I do not know whether the proposal will be approved as it is presented by the Greens, but it is a basis for at least one path — or it is progressive — to establish this objective which is fundamental to the success of learning. That is what the previous government has done, to increase the number of students per class, those who have classroom experience say and reaffirm that it was an extraordinary mistake. So, you have to be amended, Prime Minister, and we have to realize, next week, how we're going to do it. But this National Reform Programme also creates a concern for the Greens that has to do with the fact that, for example, in valuing the territory, it does not strictly focus on biodiversity and nature conservation. I think it was very important to introduce this concept as an objective. And you know why, Prime Minister? Because if we introduce it and assume it as an objective—and this is linked to the appreciation of our territory and our natural resources and how we can manage this potential that we have for the security of the territory, because that is what biodiversity means—when we think of certain projects, we think of them in accordance with the objectives that are outlined. And this is where I want to get to the National Barrage Plan. It is that if behind thinking about a National Barrage Plan is also the concept of biodiversity and nature conservation, most likely our decisions will be different from those that were originally. Mr Prime Minister, in response to a question posed by the Greens in the previous 15-year debate, said that paragraph 1. This year's quarter...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u120	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u121	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, Mr. Prime Minister said that, no. 1. this year's quarter, a proposed reassessment of the National Barrage Plan was made. Today, you have already referred in response to another question, which in the next 15 days the Minister of the Environment will discuss this with the authorities. Mr. Prime Minister, it's not enough! The Greens want to be part of this debate and surely environmental associations also want to be part of this debate. Do not only with the autoarchs, Mr. Prime Minister, extend the re-evaluation of the National Barrage Programme to those who have always shown interest in this matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u123	... and eager to contribute to the effective valorization of our territory and not to its destruction. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u124	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u125	Mr. President, Mrs. Member, you are right! In fact, comparing this draft National Reform Programme with the National Reform Programme presented last year by the previous Government realizes that we are « day to night». It is indeed a great step forward, which also records, the way in which the parties that supported the former Government generally say in accordance with these objectives. The problem is, often the devil is really in detail. When we hear that the fight against school failure goes through the repositioning of exams, instead of having an evaluation process that is a useful tool in the training process of students, we are left with doubts whether they are even in agreement or only in accordance with the generic description that is then completely reversed with the concrete measures that will be applied. But we are going to have this open-minded debate and I hope that the agreement with the generic objectives can also be accompanied by the agreement on fundamental measures, because they lack stability beyond a legislature, so that we are not systematically changing what must be continuous. As regards the question of the reduction of the number of students per class, it is something, in our view, very important from the pedagogical point of view. We see it more as a measure of pedagogical character than a mere administrative measure of fixing a total number of students. It is a measure that needs to be implemented, in particular by prioritising priority educational territories, schools with higher rates of failure or dropout, the need to manage the whole of the classes, the hypothesis of the breakdown of the classes. This is an objective that we must pursue, in accordance with the various tools we have available to do so. I am pleased that the Greens present this diploma in the Assembly of the Republic, because it is a good place to develop, with the participation of the Government, this debate in order to reduce the number of students per class in order to improve the educational quality of education in Portugal. That's essential. I also support the honourable Member's view that in our National Reform Programme we should value the objectives relating not only to the defence of biodiversity — which appears to be quite developed in the chapter on the sea, but in fact should not be restricted to the sea — but also to the conservation of nature. Certainly, in this month, we will be able to add more of this axis to the pillar of the value of the territory, with the corresponding measures. The debate on the National Barrage Plan will not be closed only with the autarchs, we should not disregard them, and this is the stage of hearing. And then we will, as we have to do, have a public debate and, of course, a debate in this House of the Republic on this matter, in which we are right, will have a very active participation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u126	To put questions, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, when reading the general purposes of the National Reform Programme, we have found that they are a generalist extension of the proposals presented in the State Budget, in a classic and economical view that raises key issues to the NAP, especially in the environmental strategy. in the pillar focused on valuing the territory, we found that there is a bet on the national expansion of a circular economy. However, in Portugal, the path has been reversed to this strategic premise because we have maintained investment in the research of hydrocarbons — non-renewable resources. This strategic flop has been occurring since 1939, with the drilling of more than 170 wells, with expenditure of over 900 million euros in exploration operations and scientific research, without finding gas or oil. If the circular economy only maximizes its results when based on clean, sustainable and renewable energies, what is the consistency of maintaining the concession of oil exploration and exploration contracts in Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u128	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u129	Mr President, honourable Member, 15 to 15 days has raised the issue of exploitation and I now have nothing more to add to what I said 15 days ago. As for the National Reform Programme, the wager in the circular economy emerges not only in energy, such as urban rehabilitation, waste management and also in renewable energy, the latter inserted into a strategy for the insertion of Portugal into global chains and global interconnections. That is why we have opened a negotiation with Morocco with regard to the export of energy, which is why we continue to beat ourselves in the European Union to extend the already existing commitment to the interconnections of the Iberian electricity network with the electricity grid of the European Union as a whole, with a view to making better use of our renewable energies, with lower domestic costs and, in particular, at lower costs for the consumer. It will verify in the development of the measures — and certainly with the measures that the NAP will also propose to join the National Reform Programme — that we have the means to develop a programme that meets its concerns. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u130	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u131	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, even in the context of the enhancement of the territory, we have checked the urgency of transiting to a circular economy, post-discharge and post-fossil fuels. At the peak of oil, the energy independence of citizens calls for a government strategy that favours the decentralization of energy production and distribution. This decentralisation will reduce the cost of energy billing by freeing citizens from energy monopolies. The maintenance of energy centralisation, for example, through the full implementation of the National Barrage Plan, is another strategic flop with serious consequences for the environment and for the citizens' portfolio, which will pay an electric tariff of the most expensive in Europe over the next few decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u132	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u133	I will now finish, Mr President. in this sense, Prime Minister, and with the Government in order to implement innovative reforms, we ask: will it not be a priority to create real incentives and enforceable mechanisms that guarantee citizens, at home, the possibility of becoming energy independent?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u134	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our priority in urban rehabilitation is very focused on energy efficiency. One of the programmes that will be launched in this area, which we have designated as 'efficient house', aims precisely to finance investment in decentralised energy production for own consumption by financing, with the savings of that energy, its own implementation. It is one of the measures that we have and which, I believe, meets the concern that you have now expressed in this last intervention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u136	To put questions, by the PS, Mr. Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u137	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This National Reform Plan, as has already been highlighted in this debate, aims to contribute to the mitigation of the country's structural blockades that impede its competitiveness. This is the subject of this debate and not the other. This programme differs in many respects from the previous model, such as the political standards that have promoted or consolidated economic stagnation and accentuated the breakdowns of cohesion in the European area. It therefore presents proposals and intervention axes which incorporate many consensual motivations between the majority supporting the government, but it goes, or at least, seeks to go beyond these political borders. It is intended that its final version will result in a reformist commitment as wide as possible. The NRP should be seen as a challenge for all social and economic partners and operators, and should mobilise, with the greatest seriousness, the different levels of public institutions and political actors. We know that this can only happen with different intensities of agreement, but the essential thing is that everyone is looking for a maximum intensity of participation, including opposition parties themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u139	The challenge for an effective contribution is addressed to all those who support these or other reforms. The question, contrary to what the PSD has forgotten, is that in any case it is up to everyone to defend Portuguese interests in European dialogue and this defence is not compatible with the denial and destruction of everything that is done or proposed. The PS and the government do not need the favors on the right, but the country does not deserve their disadvantages. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the debate on budgetary guidance, the PS has left a challenge to the parties of the parliamentary opposition on the discussions around this Plan and of course — and in due course — of the Stability Programme, whose response could have already been given by the parties today: to engage, without methodological reservations and occasional partisan gains, in the construction of a Portuguese policy in Europe and a European policy for Portugal, which is the best friend of growth and investment, employment and equality. We sincerely hoped that the PSD would give a sign of its conversion to constructive policy. After all, they haven't taken advantage of this week to say goodbye to the "bottom-down" of the past that pursues him,... [[PSD protests.]] ... of the jealousy of the current government, of the speech about nothing, to renew his attitude, apparently meaning that old party does not learn other languages. [[P.S.'s applause.]] PSD Members are increasingly transparent, but only in the worst sense: it's like they're not here! And we're not happy about that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'm just talking about the PSD because the crab had a short life. The tied, it seems to me, got rid of the tug: he won the engine and already passed it on to him. Congratulations to the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u140	Don't go that way!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u141	It's a bit like the story of Tolan : stuck and the other boat continued. [[PS laughter.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the demands of our European integration continue to place very sensitive restrictions on us, even if we recognize that we are making one of the greatest efforts to reduce the deficit among the countries of the European Union, contrary to previous continuing failures, including the PSD Government and the CDS. This National Reform Plan is also presented in an uncertain context as to the evolution of the European economy and finance, as well as other variables of a political and conjunctural nature. And finally, everyone must be aware that the fragility of our economy and our social training, changes in the organization of work, as well as the negative inheritances in the financial sector and the weight of other burdens, are additional difficulties that weigh on the current diagnosis. The initial framework of this plan is therefore very much affected by the facts as well as by the indeterminations, which add to the usual resistance of the conservatism of certain European authorities, of which at least the European Central Bank has been released. It is therefore important, Mr Prime Minister, to make known and to know this starting point very well during these discussions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u142	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the PNR has another merit, in addition to its proposed content. It shows, as the Prime Minister here has pointed out, that the government is acting in harmony with a project that also comes from a reality that surrounds us. So it is: The lack of qualifications of the active age population is the greatest challenge facing the country. The European Commission alerts this disability at the Country Report of Portugal 2016. The trend over the past 4 years has severely aggravated this indicator with the breakdown, for example, of registered adults. Labour precariousness is another disturbing factor. Qualifying the Portuguese population is therefore the first pillar of the National Reform Programme. And the government says why and how. The level of investment in Research and Development is imperative to accelerate the internal and external competitiveness of our economy. The limited cooperation already mentioned between universities and companies does not value these and makes it difficult to employ qualified people. Investment in Research and Development fell with the previous government below the 2008 level. Promoting innovation in the Portuguese economy is therefore another priority. And again, the government says why and how. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Urban revitalization has a very important impetus in promoting local economies and energy efficiency has environmental and economic gains that can no longer be neglected. The economy of the sea is an opportunity not taken advantage of. For example, it is known that about one third of the housing park needs repair and that energy policy has suffered a significant reversal with the previous government. Valuing the territory is another objective that incorporates these and other dimensions. And the government again says why and how in this National Reform Plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The European Commission alerts '(...) the complexity of administrative procedures, as well as the lack of efficiency of the judicial system, the licensing procedures. Do not keep on seeking. ” There are also difficulties with access to finance by small and medium-sized enterprises, lack of clarity in public procurement or restrictions on access to certain highly regulated professions. Modernizing the State is another pillar of the PNR. And the government says why and how. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The decapitalisation of companies is one of the most central problems of our economy and employment. Despite the recovery of consumer and business confidence in paragraph 1. this year's quarter, marked today by the INE, and that the PSD did not want to talk,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... despite this, it is true that many companies do not have the ability to invest in access to credit or the form of satisfaction. The former government has fallen short of these dimensions, has despised our companies and the use of European funds. Capitalizing companies is therefore another design. We're already doing it. And the government has said why and is saying how. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is the European Commission itself that draws attention to social exclusion. In each month of PSD/CDS governance, 7000 people have fallen into poverty, of which 2000 children and young people. Day after day, access to health care became more difficult. Strengthening cohesion and social equality is the last, but the no less important strategic pillar of this National Reform Plan. And here the government also says why and how. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is all these past and future reasons that it is important to value...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u143	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President of the PS Parliamentary Group. It's because the clock just started counting it was over a minute and so after I started talking. But please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u144	Yeah! The Bureau will have to resolve that step.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u145	Overdue? The table doesn't have a watch here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u146	Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is all these past and future reasons that it is important to value, because otherwise we will not exceed what has prevented us from growing sustainablely, because doing more of it is even worse. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We could, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — and I will conclude — I have started early, but at least we will start four years later. With virtue and patience, you will have to demonstrate that this reformist path is the best way for the country and will serve the European Union well. Here we are, Mr. Prime Minister, to help Portugal on this. All of them? It was good for Portugal — wasn't it, Prime Minister? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u147	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u148	Mr President, Mr César, I would like to thank you, in your old friendship, for asking you three minutes to answer the three questions that Mrs Cristas has put, already after I cannot answer. First of all, I would like to say to the honourable Member that, as you know, I have loved your Blue Week initiative since the first hour, although in other functions. That is why we would never cease to continue what is good, and we will therefore continue with this initiative. I don't know if we can hit the hard record of having 70 ministers, but I also know that your main concern is not the accounting of the ministers coming to Lisbon,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u149	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u150	... its main concern is the capacity we have to do what is necessary, that is to put the centrality of the policy of the sea not only on our national agenda but also on the international agenda. And that is why we will have this event in June 2016. I also want to reassure you about the funds from agriculture. this year the State budget has more than EUR 25, 5 million than last year's State budget, which will allow us to fully implement what is envisaged in the RDP, thus continuing a growing that has existed: in 2004, 0 %; in 2015, 12 %; in 2016, 100 %. That is what we are going to do, that is to continue this growth rate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, as far as Metro do Porto is concerned, I assume that Mrs. ex-Minister did not accompany within her...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u151	I didn't walk inside, but outside!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u152	...because, as an illustrious jurist who is, he would not have conformed to that true catalogue of scams and illegalities that developed and culminated with a direct adjustment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The trick and the direct adjustment were such that the government did not have to reverse anything, contrary to what is said, because, when we took possession, purely and simply, the case had been returned by the Court of Auditors, which did not target that contract because it obviously violated Portuguese law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have now done what we should do. Yesterday, in the Official Journal of the European Communities, the previous notice of the Ministries of Finance and the Environment was published of the intention to open the public invitation to tender because the law obliges us to make the prior notice one year in advance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u153	That's great!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u154	So yesterday the announcement was published and we will be able to open the contest within a year. We can't do it before because the law doesn't allow us. But one thing we had to make sure: that the Port Metro would work, because we couldn't let the company go without being able to work. That is why we extend these conditions, and today it will cost less, with greater guarantees as to the maintenance charges on behalf of the concessionaire. And so, at the end of the competition, we will finally be restored to a stable legality, as we could have always been, if the previous government had done, on its own date, more than two years ago, what unfortunately only yesterday the current government has done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Carlos César, I follow you in your frustration about the difficulty of bringing to the present those who want to be gripped by the past. But we must be persistent and, above all, we must not be distracted. The country does not ask us to take care of the past, the country asks us to take care of the future. And it's from the future that deals with the National Reform Programme. On the one hand, we did not want to start with the diagnosis of the last four years, but we wanted to start with the diagnosis that the European Commission is making about what the structural problems in our country are today, and it is for these structural problems today that we have to find the answer. We cannot continue on this simple path of every government that simply explains that all the blame lies with the previous government. We cannot continue for another 15 years the trajectory of the last 15. Therefore, contrary to what the previous government did, which wanted to explain everything with the action of the previous government, we must concentrate not on what the previous government did, but on those who are the structural problems identified by the European Commission and who demand a response from the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we must do so in an open way, as we have done now: we have presented to the country what are the six strategic pillars we consider essential, the fundamental axes in which they unfold and a set of first measures. We intend in the parliamentary debate, in the debate with the social partners, in the debate with the society as a whole, to enrich this National Reform Programme. Even today, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia suggested here a new axis to be integrated into the pillar of the value of the territory. We are sure that there will be opportunity, capacity, to add and enrich this programme which must be a national programme. And I hope, because I am very optimistic, that even the party which, in the present day, has been characterised by the omission of its contribution to the debate does not give up, despite everything—after a Congress which will certainly generate a strong renewed dynamic—that, next week, it is already presented here, if it is not to look at the future, at least, sitting in the present time. It would already be an enormous step forward that we would have had in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-30.u155	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister on the National Reform Programme. Once again, I would like to extend my compliments to the honourable Members. Members of the Government. The next plenary meeting will be held tomorrow, Thursday, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: from point 1, the general discussion of draft law No 143 / XIII ( 1 ) is contained. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 28 / 2000 of 29 November defining and regulating the honours of the National Pantheon ( PS ). In point 2, the joint discussion of draft resolutions 117 / XIII ( 1 ) is followed. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend Community measures to defend the planting of the medroneiro and production of the medronho pendant in the interior center of the country, northern Alentejan and in the Algarve ( PSD ), 193 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends recovery of production and processing of medron ( PCP ) and 198 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the culture of the master and production of the midwife ( BE). in point 3, the joint assessment of the projects of lein.o 55 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Fight forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation ( BE) and 146 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Combats modern forms of forced labour by the tenth amendment of the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 to the fifth amendment of the legal regime for the promotion of safety and health at work, approved by Law No 102 / 2009 of 10 September 2009 and the third amendment of the legal regime for the exercise and licensing of private employment agencies and temporary employment undertakings, approved by Decree-Law No 260 / 2009 of 25 September ( PS ). in point 4, the projects of lein.os 117 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May 2015 establishing the legal system of specialized medical training with a view to obtaining the degree of specialist and laying down the general principles to which the procedure ( CFP ) and 145 / XIII ( 1 ) must be followed. ( a ) — In defence of medical training of excellence, ensuring the completion of the common year and access to specialized training for all physicians ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May 2015 ( BE). in point 5, the draft deliberation No 6 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Attribution of the title of Honorary Member to the Constituent Assembly of 1975 - 1976 ( President of RA, PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ). Finally, there will be regular votes at the end of the debate. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 5 minutes.]]
