ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I request the authorities to open the galleries. Since there is no record to be announced, we turn to today's agenda, the first point of which is the discussion, in general, of the projects of lein. 8 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Replacement of retired national holidays ( CFP ), 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restores the national holidays of the Implementation of the Republic on 5 October and the Restoration of Independence on 1 December ( PS ), 20 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Restitutes compulsory national holidays eliminated ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August ) ( Os Verdes ) and 33 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restoration of deleted national holidays ( BE) together with draft resolutions 8 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Planned revision of the suspension of religious holidays and corresponding civil holidays ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 51 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Review of the suspension of religious holidays ( PCP ), 55 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Restoration of deleted holidays ( BE) and 63 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the agreement with the Holy See for the restitution of religious holidays ( The Greens ). To open the debate, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor for an intervention from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: The former PSD/CDS Government, for four years, imposed on workers and the country a path of impoverishment, generalization of precariousness, worsening of unemployment and brutal degradation of working conditions and living conditions of thousands of Portuguese. He took on and achieved the goal of attacking and destroying the rights of workers who represented civilizational conquests, with successive changes to the Labour Code. Always for worse and degrading workers' rights, he took out four holidays, took three days' vacation and cut the payment of the extra work. Actually, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the former PSD Government / CDS, with this decision, offered the patronate a week's worth of work for each worker in our country. With this schedule of the Portuguese Communist Party, today we have the conditions to propose the replacement of the four holidays: those of 5 October, 1 December, 1 November and the Body of God. This proposal means the recovery of rest and leisure time for workers. It means the possibility of pointing out, with the necessary dignity, the dates which, from a political, historical and cultural point of view, are decisive in the history of the people and the country. But allow more, sirs. Members : It also enables workers to recover income. It allows, because it will oblige the payment of work on holidays as such and ceases to guarantee the payment of these working days as any working days. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago we tabled a proposal identical to what we are doing today; two years ago, PSD and CDS rejected the replacement of the four holidays. Today, with a new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, we are in a position to ensure the recovery of rights and the recovery of income. This is the contribution of the Portuguese Communist Party, that is the objective we assume, the goal of valuing work and workers, of building a better life and a more just country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u3	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Not long ago, four national holidays, two of them civilians and two of them religious were eradicated in this Chamber. This is indeed a double disregard. As has already been mentioned, first of all, what is on the table is the framework for labour rights and the right to rest for Portuguese workers. But worse than that, it is also a clear disrespect, even insult, to the collective historical memory that civil holidays represented. Indeed, the abolition of the celebration of the Restoration of Independence, the abolition of the celebration of the Proclamation of the Republic, made without any fear, made without any fear, made without any deep reflection on what this option meant, embarrassed this House. I even had the opportunity to say, at the time, that perhaps we should apologize to the statue of the Republic because this House would have stopped looking at it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u5	When they signed the Memorandum they had no shame at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u6	Today, perhaps for happiness, takes place in the Lost Steps, at the exit of this Chamber, an exhibition that invokes, precisely, the statue of the Republic and the values it represents. These symbolic issues are not only of mere importance, they represent our identity, the values that, as a community, we want to move on to other generations and those that characterize us as a people, as a State, as a Republic. That is why today, fortunately, we have this opportunity, in the context of a new correlation of forces, within a new reality that values the collective memory, to restore the two civil holidays and, at the same time, also to open the way for the replacement of the two religious holidays that were also eliminated, obviously reflecting what was the existing framework of rights before this amendment of the Labour Code. Indeed, in Article 1. that of the Constitution, the first five words of our constitutional text say the following : « Portugal is a sovereign Republic ». And what did this House do in the previous legislature? He no longer commemorates the fact that we are a Republic and no longer commemorates the fact that we are sovereign. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] And, precisely for this reason, today we rest what is respect, too, for values that are reflected in the constitutional text. And it's old stuff. As early as 1910, one of the first measures of the Provisional Government of the Republic was to establish a day to safeguard and commemorate the memory of those who proceeded to proclaim the Republic. And if it is true that it was not a measure taken in this Chamber, it was a measure, as I said, of the Provisional Government of the Republic, but what is true is that the Constituent Assembly had hardly a chance in this Chamber, in its act that was eminently symbolic but once again relevant because it affirmed values and principles, and had the opportunity to claim the Republic in this same Chamber. So, in a way, and not wanting to exaggerate, because there is no need for exaggeration either, symbolically, we are a bit to claim the Republic, which has been forgotten, placed on the margins, ignored, in your approach to the previous legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In conclusion, underlining the following: on the same day, 19 June 1911, this House approved a text that said two things: firstly, that "the monarchy is forever abolished"; secondly, "the form of government of Portugal is the democratic Republic"; and, thirdly, that "all those who, to depose the monarchy heroically, have fought to conquer victory forever, with godly recognition, to the memory of those who died in the same glorious enterprise". In memory of the conjurees of 1640, in memory of those who proclaimed the Republic in the Round, today the Assembly of the Republic apologizes to them all for these three years of interruption in valuing their memory and rests, with dignity, those who are fundamental principles of our Republic and our community. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u7	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u8	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Today is an important day for the Portuguese, because we are in a position to return another piece of everything that the previous government, the PSD and the CDS has removed. If we look back, what we see, without great effort, is that following the policies and options of the previous government, PSD / CDS, the people who work were subjected to a real martyrdom. In fact, with the previous government, people began paying more taxes, receiving less by the end of the month, working more hours per week, having less holidays, having less labour and social rights and finally having less public services. And as if this offensive against whom it works was not yet sufficient, the same PSD/CDS government still decided to eliminate four mandatory national holidays, two civil holidays and two religious holidays: the Body of God, Implementation of the Republic, on 5 October, Day of All Saints, on 1 November and the Restoration of Independence, on 1 December. With the elimination of these compulsory holidays, the former Government has put the Portuguese workers to work more than four days a year without any increase in terms of remuneration, which means that, with this option, the Government has favored only and only employers, despite the negative consequences that result for those who work, negative consequences not only at the wage level but also at the level of the rights to rest and leisure, further combating the reconciliation of the professional exercise with the family life of people. It should also be noted that the economic reasons which the PSD/CDS Government at the time referred to for the elimination of these four holidays have no credible basis. And they have no credible foundation from now on because all studies show, in a very clear way — indeed, what has always been evident to us — that working more for the same wage adds nothing in terms of productivity, being practically neutral its effect on the country's economy. Finally, the decision by the previous Government to eliminate four national holidays is still a clear symptom of the contempt with which the previous government looked at our culture and our history. It is therefore of all opportunity and justice for those who work, but also for our history and our culture, to return the four compulsory holidays which the previous Government has eliminated. To this end, the Greens Ecological Party now presents two legislative initiatives — a bill and a draft resolution. The bill seeks to restore the civil holidays eliminated by the previous Government, PSD / CDS, through Law No. 23 / 2012 of 25 June, i.e. the holidays of the Implementing of the Republic, on 5 October, and the Restoration of Independence on 1 December. And since the suspension of religious holidays, of the Body of God and of 1 November, was the subject of an agreement between the PSD/CDS Government and the Holy See, the Greens Ecological Party today also brings up a draft resolution to discuss today with the aim of recommending that the Government be careful and take all necessary measures to review the agreement with the Holy See for the replacement of religious holidays, which, in fact, should take place so that this year people and families can already enjoy these religious holidays suspended by the previous Government. Thus, conditions are created to restore more justice to those who work, to respect people and families. But the conditions are also created for us to re-respect our history and respect our culture. We are thus in a position today to take another step towards removing one more injustice, from the many that the PSD/CDS government imposed on Portuguese and, at the same time, to achieve another commitment we have made to the Portuguese and the voters. [[Applause from The Greens, the PS and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u9	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group and the CDS Parliamentary Group present to this House a draft resolution to recommend to the Government, and in close dialogue with the Holy See and with social consultation, the planned revision of the suspension of religious and civil holidays. Well, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, in this matter of holidays, and with regard to civil holidays, which essentially separates us from two issues: the first is the way this replacement of holidays is being decided; the second is the political significance of this decision. In 2012 the disappearance of these holidays deserved a broad consensus, especially in the face of the crisis in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u11	Consensive? Oh, my God! With whom? He's only gone with the bosses!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u12	And let me tell the Socialist Party Member that what we are ashamed of is not the holiday situation; what we are ashamed of was the bankruptcy that left us the Socialist Party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the question of holidays deserved a consensus in partnership, because it has everything to do with the economy, with the business world and with the productivity of the business fabric. Four years later, it is more than legitimate to talk about this situation. What is not legitimate, it is not coherent, nor is it responsible to speak of this situation and to resolve it without social consultation. To decide these issues on the basis of social consultation is a lack of respect for the social partners and all economic agents, it is a total lack of understanding of the problems that caused the situation that led to the suspension of holidays and a lack of understanding of the problems that may arise with this amendment, without any type of consultation. This is not the right way. It is, therefore, a wrong path and we understand that this issue should indeed deserve broad discussion and broad consideration. So, and in conclusion, I want to remind you. Members that the replacement of holidays was already a constant orientation of the law and was a constant orientation of the policy of the previous government, PSD / CDS. It must be carried out in the manner in which the initial decision was taken, i.e. through the intervention of the social partners with regard to civil holidays and through negotiation with the Holy See in the context of religious holidays. Do it, as you are discussing here today, the revelation of these principles can be legal, but it is not sensible, it is not correct, it is not consistent, it is not even responsible. But this has been the way that we are already getting used to this new majority. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u13	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The abolition of holidays by the right government has laid down three lies, three false arguments, which, in fact, are being reproduced here today. The first myth was that removing holidays was an imperative that Portugal had to redeem its guilt and atone for its sins because it was a country where little work was done and where there was more vacation. In fact, this was the speech of Chancellor Angela Merkel who treated the country, Portugal, as well as the other countries of southern Europe, as if it were a country of lazy, where little worked and who was destined to be a country of breeding in central countries. There is nothing more false than this idea, because the Portuguese work more than 324 hours a year than the Germans, more than 1 hour a day and, in 2011, according to an OECD study, Portugal was already the country of all the OECD countries where it worked more and which, in fact, led the list of unpaid working hours. So when it took a government capable of defending the country and its dignity, what we had was a PSD and a CDS that was the echo of the German government's prejudices over the countries of the south. The second lie is that the end of holidays resulted from the need to increase productivity. However, it is known that the increase in productivity does not relate to the increase in working time, which does not increase productivity by cutting wages, but by increasing qualifications or changing the organization of work. And it would suffice to hear the views not only of the UGT or the CGTP, but also of the presidents of the employers' confederations themselves. The President of the Confederation of Trade and Services of Portugal said: "There was no improvement in the economy and productivity with the abolition of holidays. The measure was implemented only to please the German Chancellor». The President of the CIP, an unsuspecting voice, said: « Productivity has not increased. We accept this ‘offer’...’ — the expression of the President of the CIP — «... of the government, because the government did not want to increase half an hour a day in the hours’. And the third myth that Mrs Clara Marques Mendes brought here was that there was a consensus in the country on the abolition of holidays. There was no consensus! There was no consensus among the workers, there was no consensus, as was demonstrated by the employers' organisations, and there was no consensus even on the right-wing benches—or have we already forgotten a petition organized by Mr Ribeiro and Castro, precisely against the abolition of one of these holidays?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u16	There are, therefore, two things that are clear in this debate. The first is that the basis for this decision, to withdraw holidays, did not sit in any study, in any objective or economic reason, is a purely ideological basis to devalue work and increase inequalities. The second thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that patriotism is to the right an occasional varnish for moments of emptiness and affliction, because, in concrete terms, when it was necessary to defend the country from the prejudices of Germany, when it was necessary to defend who produces wealth, who it is who works, what we had was a government that abdicated the Republic, abdicated independence, abdicated sovereignty and, above all, had as its only solution to offer bosses four days of work to the stock market. That is why today is a time of celebration for workers. First of all, because it proves the relief that it is for those who work that the PSD and the CDS are sitting today in the opposition benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u18	But it is also time to repair this usurpation of working time and this annulment of collective memory, honoring the Republic and restoring, above all, to the workers, the four days of rest which the former Government has stolen from them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u19	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this debate, I would like to underline six points. First of all, and for the sake of clarity, I would like to say that what the previous government did was to suspend four holidays — two civilians and two religious people. It was not deleted, it was suspended.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u21	Is that an irrevocable appreciation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u22	In Portuguese, and of the good, the words still have their meaning, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, and for those who say that this process did not deserve any reflection and was carried out without any consensus, as we have heard here, it is necessary to say that the suspension of civil holidays, for those who have forgotten, occurred following a tripartite agreement, obtained in social consultation, which provided for its elimination. Despite this, what the government managed was not to eliminate but to suspend. in an agreement, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who also provided for the re-evaluation of the suspension until 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u24	Of course, it was expectable, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this would be reassessed by a new social commitment and not by a unilateral decision of the Government or even of the parties that support that government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u26	Thirdly, I would like to say that the suspension of the two religious holidays resulted from a serious negotiation with the Holy See, according to the basic principle that, first, it would negotiate and only then legislate. First, there is room for diplomatic talks and only then progresses to announcements in the media.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u28	This requires respect for the international treaties and the obligations agreed with the Holy See. Fourthly, if the suspension of holidays was initially led to dialogue in social dialogue, the end of the suspension should also have been discussed in social dialogue. But no, that was not the option! With these new times, in the Socialist Party, where yesterday the apology of social dialogue was done, today it is legislated, without hearing anything or anyone, not even the social partners. Fifthly, this debate well demonstrates the huge run to the left, Mr José Moura Soeiro. It is that, by quickly and without rigour, everything resembles a sprint,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u29	Sprint was your race!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u30	... where the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens give way to initiatives that need to be corrected in the full period of public appreciation. Anyone who hears them, Mr. José Moura Soeiro, you or Mrs. Rita Rato, might even think that we would be before a late recognition of your parties or the importance of the Holy See, even if he could think that we would also be before a late recognition of the need and importance of complying with international treaties or, as it seems, only and only, with recognition of the lack of rigour of your own legislative initiatives. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Anyway, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in your legislative frenzy, have not even respected the mechanism of public assessment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u31	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u32	And that, Mr President, leads me to the sixth and final point. It is that by altering their initiatives, BE, PCP and the Greens have chosen to go after the Socialist Party, ignoring the contribution of the CGTP comrades.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u34	They ignored social consultation, ignored the contribution of the CGTP. But not everything is bad, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have learned that the parties on the left, the PCP, the BE and even the Greens, not only recognize the Holy See as they respect the Concordata and, more so, even worry, as we heard, about the holiday of the Body of God. Mr President, it is always a pleasure to hear a member of the Left Block defend, with great vehemence, what is the holiday of the Body of God! I cannot but tell you, because this is an absolutely extraordinary moment in this House. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is only regrettable how once again the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens disregard social consultation, which, from our point of view, is unacceptable. As for the CDS, our position is very clear: to renegotiate in 2016 in the social dialogue and with the Holy See, the gradual replacement of holidays. First, a civilian...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u35	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u36	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, renegotiate, first, a civil holiday, the 1st. that of December, and a religious, of course one who understands the Holy See so. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u37	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members : I understand that it is uncomfortable for the former majority to deal with simple things in a democracy, such as the fulfilment of the electoral programme, respect for what were undertaken before workers and before the country, the desire to value the protection of workers. It is that, in doing so, they effectively ignore...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u39	What about social consultation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u40	Here we go! It is indeed absolutely clear, firstly, as has already been demonstrated, that there is a myth about the effect that holidays produce on productivity. As if to have workers mobilized, committed, it was a factor to be disregarded, as if the well-being of workers did not count for anything in productivity, as if they were an obstacle, something that upsets, something that bothers, and as if the valuing of rest and the valuing of the reconciliation of family and professional life was not a factor that had been placed on the table in the discussion of labour law. But secondly, it should be pointed out that Portugal has never been out of the average or even far above the average in the number of holidays it had contemplated in its legislation, which is the second myth, the second wrong and false premise on which it sat this suppression of holidays. What really happened three years ago was a strictly ideological, punitive option, which ended up penalizing Portuguese workers, without any need and without any practical, useful effect, in what was intended to be valued.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u41	You have finished your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u42	I'm done now, Mr. President. Thirdly, it is absolutely false and incorrect that there is no appreciation of the mechanisms for hearing about changing labour legislation. They have been initiated and, in this legislative process, they are being taken into account and precisely the mechanisms are under way so that legislation can be amended, as in fact it results from both the Rules of Procedure and the legislation on this matter. Finally, there was no real suspension; there was a process of intentions, put at the end of the diploma that changed the Labour Code, saying: « In 2017, we thought about it ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u43	Until 2017!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u44	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u45	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is that if they really wanted to suspend holidays, they had limited themselves to adopting a rule that would suspend them for a certain period of time. That is not what they did, they expressly amended the Labour Code. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u46	For a second speech, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to record the indignation of the right-wing benches on this matter, simply saying the following: Members, if they are against them, vote against these initiatives. We will see, at the time of the vote, if they take that position. And I would like to confirm to the Member of the CDS-PP, Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, that this Left Block bench has, in fact, some values and principles that are sacred. One of the sacred principles for the Left Block is that workers have the right to rest and leisure. And another of the sacred principles for the Left Block is that we are against free work and unpaid work. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] And from this point of view, the leaders of the Church in Portugal have shown more sense and more respect for these sacred principles than the benches on the right. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u48	For a new intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost at the end of this debate, it is important to remember that we do not understand the startling of the new majority seats, when it is mentioned that there was a broad agreement. There was indeed a broad agreement. And the gentlemen. Members should read the social agreement carefully. The reasons for this suspension of holidays are clearly set out there. I'll say again: suspension of holidays! It is indeed that which was established in the law. And the review of holidays and their replacement were clearly foreseen both in the law and in the guidance of the previous PSD/CDS government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u50	For a second intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila: It is at least ironic to hear from the CDS a concern with the public consultation. The PSD and CDS Government presented a bill with a very serious amendment to the Labour Code, an amendment that represented a civilizational retreat. He collected dozens of contributions that said the withdrawal of four compulsory holidays was unacceptable and, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they did not take into account a line of public consultation of the bill — even one line! The gentlemen. Members like to invoke public consultation when for the CDS and PSD is a mere proforma. Workers' organisations have 30 days to speak. Mr President, the difference between the CFP and the CSD is precisely that workers' rights, their representative structures are not a proforma, they are an element and a dimension of the democratic regime and workers' rights are also a condition of economic and social development in the country. That is why we understand that there was no consensus. Mrs Deputy, it is at least ridiculous to invoke this argument. It is political ridicule that they want to raise on this issue. I could read all the opinions because all the opinions delivered to the Committee on Labour and Social Security are against the elimination of holidays, but I will read only one, which says: 'The abolition of four holidays, in addition to representing a manifest disregard for national history, tradition and culture, represented, above all, a violent face to the rights of workers, forcing them to work a greater number of hours for the same money, which, together with other measures within the framework of the organization of working time, embarrassed the work and undermined the principle of reconciling personal and family life with working life.' Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, give the piroutas they give, use the false arguments they use, will never get rid of the macula of having been the Government which has made the greatest face to the rights of workers, imposing a civilizational retrogression, which will forever remain in your hands stained by the attack on the rights of workers. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u52	You have the floor for one speech, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government welcomes the initiatives presented here, which are in line with the Government Programme and give an expression to the fulfilment of a promise of the majority represented today in this Parliament. There is nothing more serious for a democracy than disrespecting popular will. And today's aim, here in Parliament, is to fulfill an electoral promise, thus respecting democracy. This government's agenda is not just the recovery of income to improve the economic conditions of workers or relaunch the growth of the economy. The government is more ambitious, it aims above all to improve the quality of life of the workers, of the Portuguese, and that is also what is done with the replacement of holidays. It should be recalled that it was in a context of regression of labour rights that the holidays were abolished. That is why, too, we are pleased to see its replacement in Portugal today. For the Portuguese Government, holidays are not a luxury that harms productivity, they are moments of freedom, leisure, rest to which all Portuguese workers are entitled. Even after the replacement of these four holidays, Portuguese workers will continue to be in the universe of the European Union those who work the most hours. The replacement of civil holidays also means restoring our collective memory and, in the case of religious people, means respecting the very strong cultural identity that Portuguese have toward these holidays. On religious holidays, because they presuppose steps to be taken by the Government of the Republic, we wanted to inform the House that the contacts with the Holy See have already begun. The Holy See is in favour of the replacement of religious holidays and, soon after the overall final vote, the Government will exchange notes verbale with the Holy See, which will be communicated to Parliament so that it will still have the opportunity to amend the Labour Code not only with regard to civil holidays but also to religious holidays, and so that in the global final vote we can vote on the full replacement of all holidays that were abolished in 2012. So we will all be in Portugal, and in Parliament in particular, to do justice and to dignify work in Portugal and Portuguese workers. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u54	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u55	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u56	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the important Bureau for the conduct of the work, on the basis of a set of statements which have been mentioned here, in order to request you to distribute the Commitment Agreement for Growth, Competitiveness and Employment of 2012, where, for those who speak so much with their mouth full of social consultation, it is expressly stated that the social partners also participated in this decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u57	Mrs. Members, we turn to the second item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in the drafts of lein. 83 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Ensures the free flow of the bank base account ( BE) and 92 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the obligation of credit institutions to provide a deposit account to the standardised order designated as « basic account », and prohibits the collection of fees, expenses or other charges by the services provided under that account ( CFP ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr Paulino Ascension has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The commission to maintain accounts in order rose by 40 % between 2007 and 2015, according to a study by Deco. In a full economic crisis, with the withdrawal of the credit business, the banks charged the commissions to ensure their minimum levels of profitability. In the face of this concerted and widespread upward movement of the committees of the banks, the following question must be asked: where are the benefits for consumers of private initiative, free competition, open markets and privatization? Let me paraphrase President Cavaco Silva when he says that reality ends up denying the most entrenched ideological convictions. The Portuguese paid twice the bank's costs: they paid as taxpayers the bailouts and state aid and paid as consumers the insatiable profit bias of the banks, translated in these increasingly high commissions, which reach EUR 10 million per day. The amounts collected are abusive. Often they do not have clear correspondence to an associated service or are completely disproportionate to the level of that service. Banking performs a public service function, or, better, it should do, we understand. An account to order is an essential asset in the times that run. It is the State itself that requires ownership of an account in order for various purposes, in particular for the payment of certain social support. For the most part, the beneficiaries of social support are undesirable customers for banks, so the costs of maintaining accounts in such high order are a disincentive for citizens with lower incomes to open up a cut to order. The absence of a true system of universal, compulsory and committee-free minimum banking services condemns these beneficiaries of social support to pay a tribute to the financial sector, which is deeply unfair to us. In 2000, the first system of minimum banking services was approved without a compulsory nature and banks adhere to it or not as approved by them. At the end of 2014, only one in every thousand accounts were covered by this regime. In 2015, the new basic account scheme entered into force, to which only eight credit institutions joined and the annual cost of maintaining these accounts amounts to €75. This universal and free basic account project corresponds to a solution enshrined in several European countries, it does not have a great degree of originality, European countries which are consolidated democracies, such as France, Belgium or Italy. The new regime we propose here is to ensure that all citizens have access to an essential instrument to life in today's society, which is to hold a bank account and a debit card for their movement. By this way, we understand that a social exclusion mechanism is removed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u59	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The use of a bank account is less and less an option and more and more a need, and it is increasingly unavoidable for most Portuguese to have a bank account. The physical circulation of money is also increasingly replaced precisely by the use and execution of operations through banking institutions. This means that there is an increasing need for a bank account. at the same time, the low profitability of the bank in recent times, the result of the economic and financial crisis of capitalism, caused, firstly, by the bank itself, has made banks bet on the appropriation of parts of the savings of the populations, their customers, to compensate for their low profitability. This means that the customer not only entrusts his money to that institution, which uses it many times in a way that reads the public interest and which forces the State to inject capital into the bank to secure the citizens' own deposits, therefore not enough, that deposit and trust, as banks still have the ability to collect commissions, which they call maintenance committees, which is a eufemism for the citizen's deposit sheet, about that money that is entrusted to them. About half of the banking product — with low profitability at this time, it is true — is obtained, precisely through these committees, which do not correspond to operations; they simply correspond to a random price fixed by banking institutions practically under carteling. Therefore, what the CFP proposes today comes following a debate that has already been held in the Assembly of the Republic. I recall that about two years ago the CFP presented the need for a free and unpaid service by banks, which was then rejected by the PSD and the CDS, which led, however, to the issuance of a circular recommending the existence of a base account by Banco de Portugal. But it was a suggestion and did not impose your gratuity. Later the CFP has proposed a similar regime and today we again propose this regime, with a new Assembly of the Republic, not to suggest to banks that can market a base account with a freely defined price, but to say that, given that it is increasingly necessary to have a bank account for the execution of banal operations, then it is necessary and it must be mandatory for banks to have a base account service without charging fees on customers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u61	Mr Carlos Santos Silva, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again we are discussing an ideological option about a topic on which this Parliament has recently legislated, and well.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u63	And your ideological choice is to give money to the bankers!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u64	This Parliament, appreciably six months ago, allowed the rights of bank customers to be extended from the point of view of access to services, allowed all Portuguese citizens to enjoy a minimum bank services account, with the minimum conditions for using their deposits in the same way, fair with the best products and services offered by the bank. Therefore, it makes no sense this diploma which is discussed here today, even more so when it mixes « garlic» with « bugs». They mix bank accounts, i.e. base accounts, with minimum bank service accounts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u65	Have you read the projects? at least read the projects!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u66	... clearly representing a regression, forgetting that bank service accounts have been a right of citizens won over the years through this Parliament, which represents a clear regression of consumer rights. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u67	They do not present an assessment of the impact of legislation produced six months ago, nor do they say how the costs of these accounts will be borne, which goes against the situations of debit and credit cards that we have heard this week. The restrictions imposed by the European Union have led to a substantial increase in the price of the cards, including those of the General Deposit Box, which is a public bank, which will rise 20 %. So, nothing was evaluated, nothing was studied. It is clear that there are issues that are sensitive to us and we are available to discuss them in the field of specialty, such as the lack of economic exception for some citizens. in this circumstances, we asked the Banco de Portugal yesterday to clarify the impact assessment of the latest measures taken by this Parliament, which I would like to point out, by the radical Left. We clearly do not favour the policy of not paying. We are not available for citizens to pay the bill later. I know that for the radical left everything should be of stock, but one day of these, until the service of the distributor who leaves the bread at home ends up being taxed, because it provides an essential service—as you say, the banking service is also essential—and there is no production of a unit, because the producer is the baker and not the distributor. You have no doubt!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u68	That argument no longer fits!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u69	We will therefore clearly be with the Portuguese and those with the greatest difficulties. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u70	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue of bank commissions has been widely discussed and this has led to significant advances, particularly in bank service minimum accounts, and to which, for the first time this year, and during this month, banking institutions have to send their customers an invoice receipt with all the fees associated with their accounts in the previous year. And this has a meaning. The fact is, many times—and we have radically different views on competition—is that there was no competition in respect of committees, because there was no knowledge of the committees that were being carried out. This obligation, which we hope will be fulfilled this month — and certainly the CDS will not fail to make every effort to verify that the Banco de Portugal is in fact monitoring the fulfilment of this obligation — will allow people for the first time to compare the commissions charged to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u73	Is this enough? It may not be, but it's a first step, and it's important. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if we follow a path to ban everything, we risk that we move forward now, we ban committees on certain things, but we will never be able to ban them in everything and anything else. It is not reasonable that this is so, because there are services that are effectively provided. What is important is that committees are not disproportionate and are not abusive, and that is a fundamental point. In other words, it is not to direct everything, it is to ensure that there is real competition and comparability between committees in the banking sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u75	Secondly, and because I have heard here saying that this is what open markets are for, which is why privatization is for, I would just like to recall a detail which seems to have gone unnoticed by the honourable Members. proposers: there is already a public bank. The state already has a bank and the gentlemen. Members already support the government that runs that bank. Well, ladies. Members, perhaps it would be interesting, instead of universally dedicating the free base account, to experience that bank put it into practice free of charge. If, after all, the public bank solves all the problems, I wonder why this account does not exist in the bank that is already public and in the bank that is already State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u76	We defend that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u77	Perhaps this would allow competition to adapt and the committees, from this point of view, to fall substantially. It's the difference between making and saying. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u78	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Passos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To hold an orderly bank account is a very common instrument today, because it is of great importance in the financial management of the family and particular citizens. For many, it is even essential because it is by this way that they receive their orders and pensions or make small payments of basic expenses. Subjecting citizens to an annual expenditure on the order of tens of euros — in some cases it is up to €75 — for maintenance commissions of an order deposit account, which offers a small number of banking services, in order to be able to receive a minimum wage or a small survival pension is excessive and is not consistent with principles of social equality. currently, according to Banco de Portugal, live in our country two types of account to the order that provide basic banking services: the base account and the bank minimum service account. The main difference between them has to do with access and commissions. The base account may have several holders and the bank client may hold several deposit accounts in order, including base accounts. The credit institution shall lay down freely the value of the maintenance committee and the minimum amount of opening of the account. The bank's minimum service account, with legislative consecration in Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000, may also have several holders, but the customer can only hold this single deposit account in order. The annual maintenance committee for this account shall not exceed 1 % of the national minimum wage and a minimum opening value shall not be required. There is a need for the merger and replacement of the current basic accounting and minimum banking services schemes, uniformizing the services offered by credit institutions. Moreover, the recommendation of Banco de Portugal, through its Circular No. 24 / 2014 / DSC, stating that «the provision of minimum banking services is very important for the promotion of responsible financial citizenship » and calling for the sale of the basic account option by all credit institutions, is a sign of the uniformization and implementation of this option. However, this has not happened. Neither promotion nor financial citizenship have been responsible. And more worrying is that access to banking services has not been ensured by all citizens. The Socialist Party has always been guided by principles of transparency, proportionality and good faith. The proposals put forward by BE and the CFP are in line with these principles and what is already being done in other European countries, particularly in France and Italy. Thus, and considering that there are some aspects to be worked in Parliamentary committee,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u80	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u81	I will now finish, Mr President. The PS considers that the proposals under discussion envisage the creation of conditions for the effective realization of greater social harmony by facilitating access by all citizens to an essential instrument in their personal and professional daily lives. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u82	Mr Carlos Santos Silva intends to make a second speech, but according to the parliamentary practice the last intervention is made by the one who presented the initiative. But you have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we're still fighting everything. Even the Socialist Party itself has just said a set of things that have exactly to do with the past. We, from Law No. 66 / 2015, solved all the problems that the Socialist Party has brought to us. I will therefore give a review, since some of the measures taken last year by this Parliament are being bleached and, I continue to say, with the support of the left-wing benches, with the support of the Socialist Party to the majority that at the time governed the country. I would then like to say what are the most important measures. Banks were not obliged to offer the service of minimum banking services.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u84	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u85	I will finish, Mr. President. It was voluntary membership. We have made it compulsory for banks to offer this service to people. With regard to the lack of transparency, we made it necessary for banks to send their customers an invoice. Today, banks have to tell people how much bank service costs annually. This promotes competition and is healthy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u86	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u87	The account maintenance committees ended with Law No. 66 / 2015, my lords.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u88	Nothing's over!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u89	Banks can charge fees only when they offer a service. in this measure, they changed all the paradigms related to those that were your complaints over the years. They have been resolved by Law No 66 / 2015...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u90	You really have to conclude, Mr. Carlos Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u91	I'm done, Mr. President. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u92	For a second intervention, Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese know well, especially those who have accounts with more modest average balances, who pay commissions. As such, Mr. Carlos Santos Silva made a speech that shocks the Portuguese day-to-day, which systematically sees them out of their account, without any reason, maintenance committees for the simple fact that they have an account in order.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u94	Don't! It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u95	Mrs. Today, however, an important step is taken, also taking into account the intervention made by Mrs Ana Passos of the Socialist Party. It means, therefore, that conditions will be created so that, on the one hand, banks are not only the subject of a suggestion from the Banco de Portugal and, on the other hand, there are rules that have to comply with, as in fact, always should have happened. Still, I would like to say that it is unfortunate that the PSD and the CDS and, in this case, Mr Carlos Santos Silva, when he touches the interests of the bankers, come with a set of alarms saying that nothing has been studied. But has Mr. Deputy studied anything to cut the holiday and Christmas allowances to the Portuguese? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]] Have you studied anything to save banks with Portuguese money? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u96	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u97	Did you ask the honourable Member to study something when he was going to cut off on the holidays? Oh, my God! at that time, there was no need to do any studies, it was to cut the echo.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u98	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u99	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, from the CFP, yes sir, we fully agree. In fact, we have already proposed and we have already said that the General Deposit Box should play this role. However, it is not enough. It is necessary to legislate so that banks not only do what they want but also comply with the rules that should be imposed on them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u100	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Obviously this is an ideological position, as is the position on the right. Ideologies are that they're different. You understand that private banks in the free market are the best in the world, but reality completely denies that. The committees have risen together. I have noted Mrs Cecilia Meireles' suggestion that the public bank should play an important role in this matter. I am only sorry that you did not present this suggestion during the term of office of four and a half years of the government that you supported. To conclude, as proposer of this project, I would like to welcome the position of the parties of the current majority of Parliament, which allows us to bring to our legal order a very positive solution that benefits people's lives and reduces social exclusion mechanisms. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[At this time, he took the presidency of Vice-President José de Matos Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u102	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u103	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u104	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u105	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u106	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u107	Mr President, I request that the document containing the question posed by the PSD to the Banco de Portugal yesterday be distributed to all banks on the basis of the study of the impact of these matters on the legal-financial order and the measures taken by this Parliament in June 2015 and which are not yet evaluated. It will be important, however, for this Parliament to be aware of the impact of such matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u108	It's still in time!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u109	I would ask Mr Carlos Santos Silva to send this document to the Bureau so that it can be distributed to the parliamentary groups. Mrs. Members, we move on to the third item on the agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 521 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by the National Teachers' Union licensed by Politicians and Universities ( SPLIU ), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to establish a special retirement scheme for children's educators and teachers of basic and secondary education. For an intervention, Mrs Maria Germana Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet, first of all, the nearly 6000 signatories of this petition, whose first subscriber is the National Union of Professors Licensed by Politicians and Universities. The purpose of the petition under discussion is to create a special retirement scheme for children's educators and teachers of basic and secondary education. We recognize the motivation of the subject here for the sensitive issues that are in its genesis, namely the specificity, the requirement and the importance of the role played by the teaching class. The diploma which approved the Statute of the Teacher Career provided for a special retirement scheme for teachers of 1. the cycle of basic education in monodoc and educators of childhood. In 2005, during a period of socialist governance, this special regime was revoked, creating transitional retirement mechanisms for those teachers. Subsequently, there has been a strengthening of convergence and equity between the General Pension Fund and social security, thus ensuring the financial sustainability of social protection systems. The Signatories of this petition intend, on the one hand, to establish a pre-retirement scheme for teachers aged 55 and 32 and, on the other hand, a special retirement scheme for teachers at all levels of education, with full pension entitlement, with 36 years of service, regardless of their age, and 35 years of service for teachers under a single-doctoral scheme. Faced with this proposal, being the profession of teacher of vital importance for the country, in which teachers are subject to great physical, psychological and emotional wear, we understand that the petition should therefore be analyzed carefully and rigorously, because, when it comes to different levels of teaching, the teachers in question have different realities that we have to treat as such, in order to continue with consistent criteria that lead us to fair results, not creating inequalities or disparities between the various actors involved. In view of the fact that this statute applies to teachers who are part of the convergence social protection system and also to teachers who are part of the general social security regime, we believe that their amendment to the Statute applies only to teachers covered by the convergent social protection regime and not to teachers of the general social security system, it calls into question the principles of equity and legal security, principles which we consider to be fundamental to any legislative amendment. However, we cannot create false expectations regarding this claim, given the need to ensure the financial sustainability of the social protection schemes currently in force. The PSD cannot be precipitated in the treatment of this matter, as we have recently seen in others, in particular in the elimination of examinations of basic education, and the National Council of Education is now coming to make public the positive results of its application. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u111	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is my first speech, I welcome Mr President, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that this Parliament will be proficient and trustworthy. I welcome, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the authors and subscribers of the petition and highlight the importance of the active participation of citizens and various organizations in political life, insofar as they constitute acts of citizenship of undeniable democratic importance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u114	We all recognize the relevance of what is asked of this House and we know the importance of education and education as teachers of the development of society, but we all also find that the human landscape of our schools is more gloomy. And there you are, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! To this end they contributed to the harsh policies carried out by the previous government in the area of education, which caused serious disturbances in the functioning of the teaching system itself and which at nothing contributed to the efficiency of the school, nor allowed the necessary serenity to its proper functioning. We cannot blame ourselves that there are worrying problems and that there are teachers who reveal, in various settings, an almost complete physical and psychological exhaustion, almost always the result of permanent pressure that, coupled with lack of perspective and a growing difficulty in determining their near future, removes their energy and perseverance, so essential to carry out, with joy, one of the most noble tasks. The progressive aging of the teaching body of the various levels of education is also a reality that we cannot spread. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group well recognizes the growing demands of the teaching profession and is fully aware of the wear that teachers are subject to, which is specific to this profession, but also recognizes the source of knowledge that means the existence of teachers, in the active, with more than 30 years of service. We cannot and must not face this problem by creating new exceptionalities in the retirement scheme, but rather by adapting the professional exercise to the different phases of the teaching career. A word of recognition and trust from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to petitioners and all teachers in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u115	For an intervention, Mr Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP welcomes the teachers who are in the galleries, authors of the petition of the special retirement scheme for the teaching class, subscribed by thousands of teachers. Workers in general and particularly those of the Public Administration have been devastated by violent policies of various governments, exacerbated by the former right-wing government of the PSD / CDS. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, teachers, one of the most affected professional groups, have faced government after government, with the disqualification of their role in society and their professional devaluation. In fact, and despite the fights developed, teachers are victims of wage cuts, tax increases, devaluation and stagnation in careers, precariousness and unemployment. Their working conditions have also been deteriorating, particularly with regard to the increase in working hours and their deregulation, the increase of students by class and classes by teacher, unfair and ineffective competitions, etc. These professionals, due to the specificity of their profession, are exposed to great physical, psychological and emotional wear, which increases with the aging and stress they are subject to, which does not allow them to respond to the challenges they face due to lack of adequate mechanisms to cope with. The teachers of 1. the basic education cycle and the educators of childhood, who have always had the right to early retirement because of the monodocency regime in which they have always worked, have seen this prerogative to be removed by the PSD/CDS government, thus exacerbating the consequences to which this professional group is subject, in view of the specifications of the profession and the working conditions in which these and the other teachers operate. These and many other measures were no more than ideological options carried out by right-wing policies against public school and its workers and had a devastating effect on education, tearing, in its furious and blind troupel, workers and the public education system itself. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP reaffirms its defense of the public school, believes in the quality of its teachers and calls for respect for these professionals, through clear and clear improvement of their working conditions and their social and professional valorization. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u117	For an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting the more than 5700 subscribers of this petition, promoted by the National Union of Teachers Licensed by Polytechnics and Universities, which deals with a question that has long been discussed, namely, the retirement, in particular, of children's educators and teachers of 1. the cycle is now also raised the question of teachers of the 2. the e of the 3. the basic education cycles in Portugal. on the first note, I would like to say that not everything that is said about the recent past corresponds to the truth. With regard to what was said by the Member of the Portuguese Communist Party, she would like to say that it was not the PSD Government and the CDS that ended with the special retirement for teachers of the 1. the cycle and educators of childhood, this has already come since the 90s of the last century and was through a decree of 2005 that ended. As a result, since 2008 this Parliament has taken exceptional measures for teachers of 1. the cycle and childhood educators who entered into activity in 1974, 75 and 76 could enjoy this exceptional retirement. So not everything that is said here is true and that does not really correspond to the truth. But let's discuss the question posed by this petition. We in the CDS have long understood that the question of teaching and teachers is something that should deserve the greatest attention and concerns. First, the school exists because there are students and it is in the students that we focus on, it is in the students that we always put the first look and the second look always on those who, in school, are dedicated to teaching and training our students. As such, with regard to this petition, I believe that it should deserve our greatest attention, but there cannot be a situation of exceptionality, there must be an overall view of the Statute of the Teaching Career, from pre-school to secondary school. So, all the questions that have to do with the kind of teaching that we want, with the way each teacher does, at every moment of his or her career, must exercise his or her activity, with the question of reduction of leisure time, with the question of having or not, for example, in the case of teachers of monodoc, auxiliary teachers throughout his or her career and in his or her class. Therefore, it does not seem to us that this avulse measure can solve the questions of the teaching career, whether they are pre-school, 1. o, of the 2nd. o or 3. or cycles. There has to be a completely global vision and not only spontaneous. from there our position on this matter is that there is a wide discussion on this subject and the results can be poured into a review of the Statute of the Teaching Career and not only of the teachers of the 1. o, of the 2nd. o or 3. the cycles, but, yes, of all teachers of basic and secondary education. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u119	Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to greet and greet the petitioners and all the teachers who, in very recent times, have been the target of the most violent attacks by the previous government. In fact, the matter brought here on the pension scheme of teachers is a hot matter. The Statute of the Teaching Career approved in 1990 was the result of great achievements of teachers over many years and deserved a major attack by the previous majority PSD / CDS. In fact, the Statute of the Teaching Career establishes matters as important as the rights and duties of teachers, careers and rates of remuneration, continuing training and retirement, among others. There is no doubt that teachers have suffered, in particular at the level of retirement and the Staff Regulations, one of the greatest attacks. The teachers did not stand aside from the PSD/CDS government attack on workers in this country, a genuine social terrorism. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] If the Maria de Lurdes Government was not very friendly with the teachers, the PSD/CDS government was able to go much further and Minister Nuno Crato was soon named "public school cover" for the policies he took in relation to the teachers, in the specific case with regard to the retirement scheme.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u122	We all know that the teaching profession is very demanding, it causes a high physical and psychological wear, confirmed by national and international studies, which has an impact on pedagogical practices and on the quality of teaching itself. It is therefore necessary to establish a retirement scheme that takes these effects into account. The bottom line is to ensure that generational renewal is essential. Within the framework of major attacks on teachers, it is not acceptable for this class to work beyond 66 years and for more than 45 years. This situation is even more serious due to the deterioration of working conditions, which is the responsibility of the former Government. The increase in bureaucratic burden, many teachers with more than 10 classes, with about 300 and even 400 students, with a model of antidemocratic management, are very difficult conditions that cause a situation of stress, medical casualties, great suffering by teachers and the former government is the great responsible for this situation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this was the legacy of the former PSD Government / CDS. The Left Block will be prepared to, together with the parties that support this majority, take into account and study this aspect and present some legislative initiatives. The teaching profession should be considered with its own specificity and we should take into account that it is a burning matter. It is indeed necessary to practice a justice policy with regard to teachers and, of course, with regard to this issue of the retirement scheme. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u123	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer requests for a word on item 3 of the agenda. We turn to point 4, which concerns the joint discussion of petition No 523 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Vania Marisa Santos Azinheira and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to amend the curricular goals of 1. the cycle, and draft resolution No 62 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Suspension of curricular targets and opening a debate process for the definition of objectives for a real and deep curriculum reform ( CFP ). To present the draft resolution, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to say first and foremost on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, to greet the petitioners and to present the draft resolution of the PCP accompanying the petition. In essence, the CFP, from the outset, accompanies all the concerns that have been expressed by parents and teachers, both by teacher associations and, on several occasions in the Assembly of the Republic, the CFP has already had the opportunity to make clear that not only did it not follow how it rejected the introduction of these curricular goals, even above the inadequate and inadequate form of current curricula, and also the effects that they have produced, both from a didactic point of view and from a pedagogical point of view, in the teaching system. This petition also opens up the possibility for the Assembly of the Republic to consider which are the best ways forward, taking into account the new political reality that is being created in the meantime. The CFP presents this draft resolution taking into account and knowing that the examinations of 1. the cycle, at this time, was repealed and therefore, for reasons, the application of the goals itself is, in practice, non-existent. in order to safeguard what is the primary intention of the CFP Parliamentary Group when presenting this draft resolution, which is to initiate a broad process, open to the entire educational community and involved in the review of curriculum reform and for the possible re-evaluation of the need for goals that are integrated in these new curricula, the CFP amends the need for suspension, given that, in fact, it is already implemented, and proposes that this House recommend to the Government that it initiate a process that takes account of the various contributions and that it is essentially oriented not for the robotization and its training but for the training of Portuguese students, for the acquisition of knowledge integrated with the acquisition of skills and that it respect, of course, both the age group and the principles of pedagogy. For this, it is necessary to open a process that builds, with the contribution of all, with the knowledge of all, a profound, vast and democratically involved curriculum reform. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u125	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In my first speech in this House of Democracy, I would like to congratulate the Bureau, Mr President, and say that I am very honored to be here to contribute freely to working with everyone in our country's development. The petition, whose subscribers we greet and to whom we thank the participation, requests the reassessment of the goals and curricula of the 1. the cycle and, in turn, draft resolution No 62 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), presented by the CFP, recommends immediately the suspension of the application of curricular goals and also the opening of a debate and a reflection. After all, what's the point? Curriculum goals determine clear, rigorous and evaluable objectives that help teachers and provide information to parents and students about what is expected to know in each discipline and level. The goals correspond to an international curriculum trend, marked since the beginning of the present century, which has generally been practiced in European countries. In Portugal, the curricular goals, whose outline before the XIX government, were built with the prospect of increasing compulsory education and are unique for the whole country. It is essential to have a reference that serves simultaneously as guidance for the alignment of the actions of teachers, for the evaluation of children and young people and finally of the educational system. Is the evaluation of goals important or not? Our opinion is in this highly known context: evaluation is always very important! It is important to evaluate goals, it is important to evaluate students, it is important to evaluate teachers, to evaluate schools, to evaluate education. In fact, we are constantly being evaluated, but in education evaluation is structured in the process of learning and training. Having concluded a cycle of implementation of curricular goals, it is expected to carry out a serious evaluation, which ensures improvement, not from a fashion or fashion point of view, but from a substance of learning. The immediate suspension of curricular goals, proposed in the draft resolution, without presenting a consensualized reference that improves the current one, would, in our view, be a mistake with direct and immediate consequences for students, families and the system and, moreover, not requested by the petitioners. School manuals, forms of evaluation, classroom plans are articulated with the existence of goals. So suspending the goals would be to cause instability. As the President of the National Education Council, Professor David Justino said two days ago, «the situations are evaluated and improved». In education, where the results have taken years and errors cost a whole generation, it is necessary to resist the temptation to want at every moment to « make a revolution». Only with careful assessments and a stability pact can we support the development of what is most important: our children; our young people; our future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u127	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I greet the petitioners in the person of the mother Vânia Azinheira, mother of a student, for the presentation of this important petition with which we agree. The curricular goals, in the opinion of the Left Block, and not only crush children with their goals, kill learning, try to quantify the evaluation up to what is not quantifiable, try to reduce the evaluation to quantification. And often the goals are summed up to this: reading a text with a reasonably correct articulation and introduction at a reading speed of at least 55 words per minute. These goals generated a consensus, which was a consensus against, and the Association of Portuguese Teachers came to say the following: « The goals have scientific errors, are inadequate to the skills to be developed in 1. the cycle(...) ». The Association of Teachers of Mathematics also contributed to this consensus contrary to the existence of goals by saying: "It is impossible to meet these goals, they are an unacceptable thing. This is going to be the math teaching disaster." The Left Block considers that these targets are, of course, to review and must follow the destination of the examinations of the 4. the year, because they were born from the obsession with the exams. However, we agree with one thing: we need a global review that draws us from this conservative paradigm and we need to replace it with a paradigm in which the child, more than by the speed with which he reads 50 words, is evaluated by his ability to interpret and reflect on the 50 words he has just read, whatever speed it is. It is this new paradigm that the Government has already announced that it would present through a proposal, in an attempt to review what exists, in an attempt to leave this conservative path to enter a path of modernity in learning in teaching and also in evaluation. The Left Block awaits this government proposal with a very demanding expectation and, therefore, we will leave for that moment, the one in which we know what the overall review of evaluation and measurement methods, our opinion and, eventually, future initiatives on the important issue of curricular goals is. But now, and because it has been discussed here, on the opinion of the National Council for Education, I would like to say the following: the National Council for Education recognises in its report that Portugal is one of the only three European countries to have examinations in 4. year. The opinion of the National Council of Education and the statements of Professor David Justino have come to say, comparing the measurement and external evaluation, that the measurement is not taken seriously while the examinations are taken very seriously. I would like to compare this with another recommendation of the National Council of Education that has only a few months, Recommendation No. 2 / 2015, in which the National Council of Education itself said that the problem of exams is that they were taken too seriously and that, therefore, there would be an excessive concern with external evaluation, which causes problems in schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u129	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u130	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, this reflection is made. I think that no one has cared about either stability or consensus when he introduced these goals and these exams and now is the time to put back what is right and what is good for students and for public school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u131	For an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I should like to leave a greeting to the more than 10,400 subscribers of this petition, the object of which is to remember here is to request that the curricular goals for 1. the cycle is reassessed together with curricular programs. This is the petition. This request can, of course, be interpreted in various ways and on the part of the CDS we believe that the curricular goals and their programmes should be assessed constantly, should be in constant evaluation. So we can no longer agree with the one who is the object of the petition. It is because education presupposes having goals, it assumes having methods, it assumes having manuals, beyond, of course, of what is essential, that it is having teachers. The Portuguese Communist Party surprises us — or, perhaps, it does not surprise anything — is not to assess but to fall into chaos, it is to suspend everything, totally and immediately, to achieve no goals, no program, no curricula, no manuals and, perhaps, perhaps no teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u133	Administrative crossing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u134	In fact, the objective of the Socialist Party, by the programme presented here, is anarchy. Furthermore, it is not surprising that the draft resolution submitted by the Communist Party cannot gather support anywhere. The Association of Professors of Mathematics says that it does not agree with current curricula and goals, but also does not agree that they disappear and remain nothing, because there are manuals that have to be adapted and what is needed is that schools and teachers have at least stability. It seems that what the Communist Party wants is to eliminate the stability that exists at this time in terms of both mathematics and Portuguese teaching. The same position has the Association of Teachers, who, not agreeing to the issue of goals, does not want them to be eliminated. Therefore, what is now urgent to ask is what the Government has in mind on this matter. For now, we have only heard say: "Let's think, let's evaluate, let's study." It's not bad anymore. They already have at least one objective, which is to think, evaluate and study. This is also the recommendation made by the National Council of Education, which has been said for many days, for example in the examinations of the 6. it's 9. the years should be calm, if you should think, if you should evaluate, because they must continue to exist to have a method of measurement, evaluation, verification of what goals are, which are the programs, which are the curricula and which is the learning that students do, in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u135	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u136	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u137	Mr President, I ask the Bureau, as soon as possible, to distribute the amendment that the CFP announced in its speech to the draft resolution, but that the PSD and the CDS were clearly either distracted during the CFP's intervention, or decided to ignore, or already brought the speech prepared and forgotten that it needed to be adapted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u138	For an intervention, Mrs Odete João has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the subscribers of this petition which brought the debate to Parliament the curricular goals, which are essential to ensuring the quality of education. The petition clearly exposes the need and urgency to reassess the curricular goals for 1. the cycle, together with the curricula, and of the appropriate to the mental and cognitive development of students. The PS supports this claim and believes that a serious and rigorous evaluation must be made, but this need and urgency cannot precipitate avous decisions or create instability in the educational system. For this reason, we welcome the amendment of the CFP to withdraw the immediate suspension of the curricular goals which, to be maintained, the Socialist Party could not follow. Moreover, the pressure of the previous government, the way in which the goals were implemented, and the curriculum review produced a bad result. The team led by Nuno Crato, wanting to turn the public school into a filter at the service of its ideology, did not provide sufficient conditions or time for an extended and participated debate, did not respect or incorporate the contributions of professional associations, did not take into account the opinion of an independent body such as the National Council of Education. The resulting curriculum review could only be an amalgamation and confusion and, therefore, was the subject of criticism from the various sectors because it contradicted the guidelines of the Basic Law of the Educational System, by separating the disciplines into essential and non-essential, by minimizing areas of development such as expressions, in short by dismantling the overall training of students. Three years after this review, there are goals without programs, there are programs without goals, there are documents anchored in the national curriculum, however repealed. It's a mess! It's time to turn the page. Curriculum goals should be incorporated into a comprehensive strategy for the development of the national curriculum and should be aimed at ensuring quality education and ensuring efficiency patterns in school outcomes at different educational levels. However, the assessment of these same curricular goals and curriculum should be carried out in a participatory, methodical, systematic and informed manner in order to ensure greater coherence and increase its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u141	The ministerial team has already announced that it intends to invite professional associations and other social partners to participate in the scientific and pedagogical evaluation of guidance documents. This is the guarantee of an extended, weighted public debate, essential for the success of the results. For PS it is with sharing, stability and confidence that public school will once again be a space of opportunity and of combating social inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u142	Mrs. Members, having no further requests for a word on item 4 of the agenda, we turn to point 5, which consists in the joint assessment of petitions Nos 528 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the National Federation of Teachers ( FENPROF ), calling on the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures to moralize the use of public money, to put an end to the privileges of private education and defence of public school ( North Region ), and 531 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the National Federation of Teachers ( FENPROF ), calling on the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures to moralize the use of public money, put an end to the privileges of private education and defense of the public school of quality ( Region of Alentejo ), and draft resolutions 56 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Rationalization of contracts of association with private education ensuring the protection of public school ( BE) and 61 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By a public school that covers the needs of the entire population ( CFP ). To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The aim of the Left Block project is to stop with the waste of public money, with unnecessary transfers of money from taxpayers to private schools. One thing is to protect education, another thing is to protect business and it is time to distinguish and clarify once for all that is education and what is business. Sponsorship contracts with artistic education are education. Whoever wanted to end them and was owed EUR 15 million to artistic schools was the right government, it was not the Left Block, which wants to protect these schools. Making temporary contracts where there is still no public offer is to protect education. Funding private colleges leaving, alongside, a public school with empty rooms and teachers with zero hours is to protect the business, it is not to protect education. Changing the Statute of Special and Cooperative Education to allow for diverting public money to private colleges that operate in competition with public school is more than protecting the business, it is to be the boss of the negotiation. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you two examples of what business is. Let public schools, such as in Coimbra, close or operate 50% of the capacity when back funding private schools and classes in private schools is business. Or, as happened in the Queen's Caldas, being State Secretary of the Government of Santana Lopes and five days after the end of the term of office to authorize the construction of a college of the GPS Group, in which, then, to be a consultant, it is not to protect the business, it is to be a patron of a negotiated one. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It must be said that, while the construction of this GPS Group college in the Queen's Caldas was authorized, there were two public schools that were below their capabilities, one of which had a requalification of EUR 10 million of public money and which worked with fewer classes than those that could work, because the students were being diverted to the private college, authorized by the PSD State Secretary, who later came to be GPS Group consultant. Between 2011 and 2014 it is estimated that EUR 328 million has been transferred from the Ministry of Education to private schools located in places where there was public supply. Now, 328 million euros in places where there was a public offer is much more than what the Ministry of Education cut into social action in school, in education and adult training, in special education and, still, much more remained in the courts that the right government did. this week, the CDS chose to use a religious language to recommend an epiphany to these benches on exactly the same subject. I want to make sure that you understand what I'm going to say very well and so I will also choose to use a religious language: diverting EUR 328 million from public school to unnecessary contracts with the private sector was a real miracle for the owners of these private schools. It was a miracle, it was a jackpot.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u144	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u145	I'd like to ask a question to the right-hand side.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u146	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u147	I will finish, Mr. President. When classes are closed, when teachers are fired, when schools are closed, when support to public school students are withdrawn to, in addition, fund an 80 000 € class that in public school could be opened at zero cost, that is education or this is business? Your freedom of choice is a income that we all pay to the owners of private schools. Finally, I wanted to say the following: they assume true freedom. The real freedom is what the Left Block proposes: is that if the privates want to operate at their expense...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u148	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u149	...and we leave the public money to fund the school that is everyone's, public education, free and quality for everyone. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u150	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by registering the presence and greeting the teachers who are in the galleries, authors of the petition in defense of the quality public school, subscribed by thousands of teachers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the responsibility for establishing a network of public educational establishments capable of covering the needs of the entire population is, according to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u152	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u153	Has this responsibility been observed by successive governments in their educational policies? It will be to defend the public school to close more than 6500 schools in 1. the cycle of basic education and not equip the rest of human and material means? Will the quality of the public school be guaranteed with the dismissal of thousands of teachers, psychologists, education science technicians and administrative and operational assistants, replacing them with workers with employment-inclusion contracts, when they are providing permanent needs of the school? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these questions are answered by themselves, as they reflect the ideological options of successive governments, particularly accented in the PSD and CDS government with a total de-investment in education, weakening from death to public school, destroying it and preparing it for privatization. At the same time, what happened to private school? Since the public school was discredited, the former Government of the PSD and the CDS, using the lure of freedom of choice, favours the private school, directly and indirectly, transferring to this money that should be invested in public school. We are talking about the association contract even when there is public response capacity for the needs of the student population; we are talking about specific training offers only in private school, preventing their creation in public school, where, in fact, they close classes to be open in private; we are talking about the creation of simple family support contracts and family support development contracts, the so-called 'check-teaching', so much of the CDS's approval. Thus, to a certain extent, public funding was transferred to the private sector and public school was stripped of material and human resources to finance the private school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u154	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u155	However, it should be noted that the CFP does not advocate failure to comply with what is already agreed and we accept the existence of association contracts and sponsorship contracts where there is no response from the public school. What we advocate is that the Republic needs to make more and more private use of schools—it is the simple fulfilment of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u156	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u157	Possibility of the existence of particular education? Yes, of course, provided that he does not live exclusively at the expense of the State, he self-finances or covers real public educational needs. The PCP defends, as reflected in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, a public, universal, inclusive, free and quality school for all. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u158	Mr Amadeu Soares Albergaria has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin with the fulfilment of a parliamentary tradition and democratic respect, by welcoming the leaders of FENPROF, promoters of petitions now appreciated. I confess that, in preparing this intervention, I could not fail to recall the various petitions, in everything similar to those of today, which, diligently, the officials of FenPROF have drawn up and brought to this Parliament. With them, at each signature collection, at each hearing in plenary of the Education Commission, at each discussion in this Chamber, FENPROF led the construction of the narrative defeated in the polls by the Portuguese people, according to which the previous Government was apostatizing, by ideology, in the destruction of the public school, as if repeating untrue data, as if repeating alarmist numbers, as if repeating partisan slogans they turned into absolute truths. These successive petitions are perhaps the most perfect attempt to implement this propaganda strategy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in association contracts, and contrary to what is being said, and already here today, it has been said, the number of schools has decreased, the number of classes has decreased, the number of students has decreased, the expenditure per school year has decreased. If you do not believe in this dangerous spokesman for the destruction of the public school that is in the use of the word and is responsible for the education of two students attending it, please consult the report of the Court of Auditors which has monitored the financial assistance mechanisms to Portugal in the education sector and please do not insist on numbers that are not true. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] You assume that, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the final objective of these petitions and of these two draft resolutions is the extinction of private and cooperative education. This is VV. Ex. They want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u160	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u161	The FENPROF, the Left Block and the PCP want to interrupt the educational course of about 150 000 students. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] More: FENPROF, the Left Block and the PCP want to fire around 20,000 teachers and not teachers! I will repeat: they want to fire about 20,000 teachers and not teachers. [[PCP protests.]] The FENPROF, the Left Block and the PCP do not want to hear the educational communities where schools are inserted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u162	Don't say shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u163	Listen to teachers, employees, parents, students and autarchs and trust people and their institutions. But, Mr. President, what does the Socialist Party want? Do we know that we did not oppose the same initiatives as opposition, but now in the government, we remain faithful to its history, to the views of its former ministers of education or pursue the path of dismantling without alternatives in recent weeks, obeying the union agenda of FenPROF and the radical agenda of its government comrades? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u164	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u165	The PS has today the opportunity to say that it fights and that it is enough of these radicalisms; the PS has today the opportunity to say that the Minister sits on the bench of the government and not in the galleries of Parliament ;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u166	... PS has today the opportunity to respect its history. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, as a result of this intervention, the PSD will vote against these two draft resolutions and will do so in defense of the public school. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u167	Also for an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u168	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, I greet the petitioners, the FenPROF and the teachers, and I also welcome their citizen participation and the fact that they have brought this important issue to debate. A public network, as enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, in Article 75. , which « meets the needs of the whole population », is a constitutional obligation imposed on the State to meet all educational needs, being a direct and immediate corollary of the right to education, as a right to school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u170	The PS has always understood that the network of public educational establishments should be the main network of the system. We don't view it as an supplement to the private network, it can't be. The PS was always clear in this area, due to constitutional imperative and clarity and transparency in the defense of public school, which cannot be underfinanced, disqualified or emptied by ideological option, as it has happened in recent years and was evident in the discussion and approval of the Statute of Special and Cooperative Education, as well as of successive State budgets.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u171	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u172	For Gomes Canotilho and Vital Moreira « all the need for teaching must have a response in public education». They say that « Everyone has the right to public school. Private and cooperative education is free, but they must - constitutionally be an alternative or parallel solution of the public education solution». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have always respected private and cooperative education. We recognize its important role in Portuguese society over the last decades, which the Constitution and the Basic Law of the Educational System also recognize. Now, the terms of this funding, the criteria and the requirements, these, yes, deserve proper reflection and possible revision, in view of the changes that the public network has suffered in recent years, in terms of supply, of the new expansion to be made, where necessary, and of the current number of students. in this perspective, the PS and the current government will study the resizing of the private and cooperative education network, in order to rationalize it, which will allow channeling financial efforts also available to value the public school. In education, we defend, above all, the principles of stability, prior listening, confidence and policy monitoring, because in educational matters, « do not plant eucalyptus», it takes time. We therefore closely monitor the concerns of FENPROF, the Left Block and the CFP in the defence and strengthening of the public network, providing adequate human and material resources, the need to conclude association contracts where necessary, the reporting process to identify shortcomings and transparency and clarity in the system. [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] However, we do not advocate terminations or resolutions of existing contracts at all, since the implications and impacts, in terms of jobs, of students, of protection of contractual trust, which was made for a triennium, would generate instability, insecurity and unnecessary imbalances. We are sure that this is not also the wish of the proposers, as it was clear from previous interventions. In short, to finish, this whole process, because complex, lacks adequate evaluation and necessary study to trace the right path, in its time and always in search of the 'just form', a public school promoting equal opportunities and a public system of universal and general education. That'll be it! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u173	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the petitioners of both petitions by FenPROF, the North Region and the Alentejo Region, who, in essence, address the same theme under the heading « Moralize the use of public money. End the privileges of private education. In defense of the public school of quality». To these petitions are associated two draft resolutions, one from the Left Block, which proposes the progressive extinction of schools with association contracts, and another, more radicalized, from the CFP, which also proposes the termination of sponsorship contracts and family support contracts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I cannot find any rational explanation for this discussion at this time and only find an uninformed ideological agenda, which does not take account of the reality of these schools, nor of their legal framework, nor of their current funding, nor of their students and their results, nor of the teachers working in them. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Aware that I repeat, but also aware that this repetition is necessary in this House and is, above all, vital for these schools, it is important to clarify once again: that schools with association contracts are also public schools serving local populations, in the same way as state schools;... [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u175	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u176	... that, in the last PSD/CDS Government, an extensive renegotiation has already been made which resulted in the signing of multiannual contracts, ensuring to these educational communities the so-called value of stability, which has been requested for schools only recently ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u178	... which, in this renegotiation, resulted in a cut in the financing of more than 30 %, Mr. Members, and a reduction in the number of students by 20 %, which meant a brutal breakdown of costs, contrary to what the left, insistently and erroneously, states;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u179	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u180	... that these schools in many cases present above average performances in comparable situations. And, Mrs.Jana Mortagua, since we are on the religious motto, and taking advantage of the example she brought a few days ago, I remind you that the College of the Immaculate Conception in Cernache is 5. the school of the council, in basic education and, by now, saving her work, another school of the Society of Jesus, with association contract, the Nun’Alvres Institute, occupies the 2nd. the place, in the municipality of Santo Tirso. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u181	It is also very important to think that if these schools, for purely ideological reasons, were closed, then this PS government would be responsible for forcing the greatest collective dismissal of history — about 20,000 education professionals would not take place, at least directly, in the state system. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] It would be a huge dismissal of teachers, by the imposition of the left and by the imposition of FENPROF. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u182	A huge nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u183	I end up with another unacceptable paradox in which the PCP puts us. It's just, sirs. Members, we cannot with one hand shake the defense of a new and fairer system of financing specialized education, perhaps to the extent necessary, and with the other hand crush these schools, proposing the end of the sponsorship contracts that sustain them by 2020. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The extinction of this type of support for families in no way benefits other families or taxpayers in general. I wonder, therefore, the change in what and for the benefit of whom we are being forced to have this discussion now. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u184	Mrs. Members, we conclude the joint debate on petitions Nos 528 and 531 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) and draft resolutions Nos 56 and 61 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and, with this, the debate on all the initiatives scheduled for today. So we will start the voting period, so that I ask the services to act in favour of the electronic voting system and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. I would like to remind the honourable Members. Members who, when the touch screen does not respond, there is always the possibility to click, using the mouse. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot electronically register their presence, will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that it is considered to be present at the meeting. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records the presence of 223 Mr. Members, which adds the presence of PS Member Pedro Delgado Alves, whose registration was not possible, making a total of 224 presences, so we have a quorum for deliberation. Mrs. Members, firstly, we have votes to appreciate and vote and we will begin by voting No 13 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Candida Ventura ( PSD ), which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u185	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last Wednesday, December 16, the victim of cardiorespiratory arrest, died at Portimão Hospital, at the age of 97, Candida Ventura. When Margarida Ventura was born in Lourenço Marques, on June 30, 1918. Still a child moved with the parents to the Caldas de Monchique and, at the age of 11, he went to study in Lisbon. His approach to politics occurred during his university life, which began in 1937, when he enrolled in Historical-Philosophic Sciences at the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, the year he joined the Communist Party. He then became close to figures like Álvaro Cunhal or Fernando Piteira Santos (who he was going to marry with), and was active in academic struggles from 1937 to 1939, as well as in the demonstrations and strikes of 1941. In addition, he participated in multiple movements of the time: Federation of Portuguese Communist Youth, Anti-Fascist Academic Block, International Red Relief, Portuguese Women's Association for Peace and National Council of Portuguese Women. A woman of immense culture, wrote in newspapers and magazines (particularly in the newspaper O Diabo) and was a friend of the most striking figures of Portuguese lyrics and arts of the time. After the graduation in 1943, he went underground as a PCP official, a situation in which he remained for about 17 years, living a existence of serious dangers and harsh deprivations and where he used the most diverse pseudonyms: Rosa, Rosário, Joana and André. In 1949, he became the first woman to join the Central Committee of the Portuguese Communist Party. In 1958, he travels to the Soviet Union and it is during this journey that, as he will confess years later, there are serious doubts and questions about the very nature of the regime he was living there. On returning to Lisbon, however, he continued his work in hiding, until on 3 August 1960 he was arrested by the PIDE. Grateful, the tortures to which he was subjected led him to abort. In 1961, he was sentenced to 5 years in prison and 15 years in suspension of political rights. But in 1963, because he was in danger of life, he was granted parole. To deal with it, he left for Paris and from there to Russia. In 1965, he was established in Prague as a representative of the PCP and also took on the role of editor of the most important theoretical magazine of the communist movement, a magazine called the International Journal — Problems of Peace and Socialism. Responsible for the Portuguese communists living in the then Czechoslovakia, he became friend of prominent figures such as Artur London and Alexander Dubcek and participated in the attempt to reform and democratization of the communist regime there carried out, which became known for history as the ‘Prague Spring’ and was crushed by the Warsaw Pact tanks on 21 August 1968. Years later, in 1984, he will portray all his experience in the book, entitled The ‘Socialism’ that I lived — Witness to a former PCP leader, in which he will take note in particular of the reasons that led him to conclude that communism was not reformable and in which he denounced the situation in the countries of what Winston Churchill had called the ‘rail curtain’. He returned to Portugal in 1975 and, in 1976, abandoned the PCP and ceased to be a communist. In our country, she was a teacher and an employee of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He then looked at the Algarve, where he lived the last decades of his life. He also maintained political activity, having supported the Socialist Party and later came to support the first presidential campaign of Professor Cavaco Silva. at a time when relativism prevails and when the defense of interests overlaps, too often, with the fight for causes, the life course of Candida Ventura must be remembered and celebrated. For example, it leaves us with coherence, resilience, courage and self-sacrifice. For the commitment he has always put in the fight for freedom and civic rights. And, above all, by the firm and determined way of rejecting the dictatorship, it was the Portuguese New State or Soviet communism. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deepest regret over the death of Candida Ventura and presents to its family its most sincere condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u186	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 13 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) the PSD, which has just been read. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the CFP.]] The following vote: No. 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — In spite of the populations affected by the storms that have reached the Azores ( PSD ), which will also be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u187	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On December 14, the Azores archipelago was once again struck by the force of nature. The biography of the Azores is full of tragic natural events, where populations suffer material damage with consequences in their incomes and, unfortunately, at times, human injuries and deaths. The Azorians have counted for centuries in their generations pain and suffering by action of nature. They are victims of constant disasters and know well what it is to lose, in seconds, their heritage, their relatives or friends. They respect the forces of nature, they know that it is impious, but they live with it because it has always been present in the history of the Azores. It is part of the Azorian soul to persist and resist in these nine territories. You also know, the Azorians, that this wasn't the last time. Last day 14 was another day that marked the history of the Azores: one day when the sea swallowed the earth, it flooded some coastal areas of the Azores, registering several wounded and a human death. In this ferocity of the sea and the wind, the damage of commercial and fishing ports, the destruction of dwellings, public roads, agricultural holdings, including the death of animals, water and light supply networks and all that was on the way to these natural elements. The damage is significant and the losses are high. Public and private goods were drastically hit. It interests now, account for all the damage and prepare the necessary national solidarity. because of the terrible events and their effects on the lives of the victims, we could not fail to express our deepest dismay and solidarity to the affected populations and, in particular, to the family of the deceased person. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret and solidarity with the populations affected by these storms. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u188	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 13 ( 1 ). ( a ), the PSD. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on vote No 23 / XIII ( 1 ) shall follow. ( a ) — Despite the death of former Member Fernando Gomes Ka ( PS ), who will be read by Secretary Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u189	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last December 9th, Fernando Gomes Ka, a leading figure of the association movement and leader of the oldest associations of immigrants, Aguinense, who deserves the appreciation and respect for all those who accompany the struggles for the rights of immigrants and for the affirmation of the citizenship of Portuguese immigrants. Born in 1953 in Guinea, he always maintained his status as a Portuguese citizen, who always affirmed in conjunction with his Guinean status. He began attending the seminary at Torres Vedras and Leiria and Theology at the Catholic University, which he ended up not concluding, then attending the School of Medicine at the University of Lisbon. Contact with the difficulties and anxieties faced by immigrants led the association and political struggle for the rights of immigrants as a priority in their lives, but also against racism and the segregation of black people in Portuguese society. From there he dedicated his life to this fight, having been one of the founders and the face to the present of the Guineense Association of Social Solidarity, currently known as the Aguinense Association, which founded as other Guineans on February 17, 1987, committed to promoting and defending unity and solidarity among Guineans living in Portugal. Fernando Ka and his association had an important role to play in the emergence of the first generation of public policies on immigrant integration. Fernando Gomes Ka was also elected a Member of the Assembly of the Republic by the Socialist Party, in the Sixth Parliament, exercising his mandate between 4 November 1991 and 26 October 1995, and engaged in discussions on the situation and rights of immigrants. over the years Fernando Ka has been permanently involved as the problems of immigrants, racism and discrimination, not neglecting the size of providing concrete support in the most diverse ways to the most vulnerable immigrants, from food to legal support through permanent work of proximity. Over the decades it has been a demanding and critical interlocutor of the public authorities and institutions, notably the ACIME / ACIDI, the Ministry of Internal Administration, the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), in essential matters in helping immigrants in areas such as education and training of young people, health and food, clarifications to the population about their legal rights, combating racial discrimination and the process of legalization of immigrants in irregular situations for the realization of which they contributed to their action. Fernando Ka has been involved since early in the international social movement, as President of the Aguinense or Community leader, participating in international meetings and meetings with foreign delegations, in particular the Council of the Sub-Saharan African Communities in Europe (CCASSE), for which he has become Vice-President. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to Fernando Gomes Ka for the work he has done for the rights of immigrants and all citizens, without discrimination, approving a vote of regret for his death and expressing his feelings to his family and the Aguinenses Association, that he was the founder and ultimate leader. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u190	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 23 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), of PS. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 24 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Despite the death of the activists of the Kurdish movement Sèvê Demir, Pakize Nayir and Fatma Uyar (BE), who will be read by Secretary Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u191	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Three feminists and activists of the Kurdish movement were murdered on the night of January 5 in Silopi by security forces of the Erdogan regime following security raids on the pretext of the fight against terrorism. Servê Semir, 41 years old, member of the Democratic Party of the Regions ( BDP ), activist of the rights of the Kurdish people, feminist and organizer of the launch of the Feminist Caravan in Kurdistan within the framework of 4. the International Action of the World Women March, died following a security raid carried out by the forces of the Turkish regime. Giant ‘ M ’ woman, who never gave up fighting the oppression of the Kurdish people and for the defense of women’s freedom and rights, was, as a result of the self - sacrificing surrender to these causes, arrested for 15 years. He survived a 68-day hunger strike against the Turkish regime, but he never gave up. Their strength and determination has unfortunately proved to be too important a threat to the oppressive forces against which they have dedicated their lives. With her, two more activists of the Kurdish movement, Pakize Nayir, Vice-President of the Popular Assembly of Silopi, and Fatma Uyar, member of the Women's Liberation Union. Feminists who dedicated their lives to the struggle for another world, for a feminist, secular and democratic society where peoples can be free and sovereign. The death of these three women, who have done no more than fight for the legitimate civil rights of their people and for the emancipation of women, does not coincide with a coincidence and reveal the brutality of the Turkish authorities against the Kurdish people. The attitudes of the Erdogan government, of disrespect for civic freedoms, for human rights, cannot go without any reference, both for their brutality and for their repetition. It is no longer possible to continue not to take a position on the Turkish regime. We must fight for rejection of the use of terrorism to facilitate and legitimize attacks on populations. The loss of these women thus leaves the poorest feminist movement and the most gray world. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session on 8 January 2016, expresses its deepest regret at this sad event, pays tribute to the victims, their families and the Kurdish people and repudiates all attacks on freedom and human rights in Turkey as in any other country in the world. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u192	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 24 / XIII ( 1 ) a ), from BE, which has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The following vote: No 12 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Condemning for repression in Angola ( BE ), which Mr. Josés Ferreira will do in favour of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u193	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The process against Angolan civic activists, the title ‘ Process of the 15’, where Luaty Beirut appeared, began on June 20. The arrest of activists by the Angolan regime, during a meeting where peaceful forms of disobedience were discussed to the dictatorship of José Eduardo dos Santos, generated a civil society mobilization for freedom in Angola. In protest against the preventive arrest of activists, Luaty Beirão made a hunger strike that lasted 36 days, affirming the struggle for freedom and drawing attention to the situation of Angola's repressive regime. throughout this time protests and manifestations of solidarity have been generated that have multiplied throughout the world. These young people, who have been tortured and whose rights have been disrespected, have been detained for almost six months. Now, they were involved in lengthy court sessions and the trial trial has been dragged in time. The activists arrested reject the accusation and demand freedom, denouncing the clear lack of separation of powers, since the Attorney-General of the Republic of Angola receives direct instructions from the Angolan President. They manifested this will through a collective hunger strike, which began on December 10. As a way of responding to national and international political pressure for the release of political activists, the Angolan Public Ministry required activists to move to the home prison regime. However, this proposal does not remove the repressive charism of this whole process, which will remain until freedom is returned. It is necessary to stop and finish this dragged process that aims to intimidate, stop and punish those who criticize the governance of José Eduardo dos Santos, who has had direct interference throughout the process, giving orders to extend endlessly the hearings. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 18 December 2015, condemns the repression in Angola and is associated with requests for freedom for the activists detained ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u194	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP, with abstentions from the PS and the Greens and votes in favour of BE, the NAP and 7 PS Members (Alexandre Quintanilla, Inês de Medeiros, Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos, Pedro Delgado Alves, Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and Wanda Guimarães).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u195	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u196	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u197	Mr President, in order to inform you that, with regard to this vote, I will present a declaration of individual vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u198	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u199	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u200	Is it for the same purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u201	Mr President, it is to realize that, having abstained from this vote, I and the honourable Members themselves. Mr Diogo León and Mr Ivan Gonçalves will present a joint declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u202	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u203	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u204	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u205	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u206	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The Bureau shall record more requests for the use of the word, which I believe will be to announce the submission of explanations of vote. Mr. Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u207	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u208	Be registered. Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u209	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a declaration of individual vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u210	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Carla Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u211	Mr President, it is precisely for the same purpose to present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u212	It is also registered, Mrs. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u213	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present an individual vote on the subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u214	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr André Pinotes Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u215	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u216	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u217	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u218	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u219	Mr President, it is not to announce but to deliver a statement of vote on this vote and to request that it be distributed to the other banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u220	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u221	Mr President, it is to announce that on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Mr Pedro Mota Soares, Telmo Correia and others of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, will present a statement of vote on the vote of 12 and 24 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u222	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to vote No 20 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Congratulations for the 20 years of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries — CPLP ( PSD ). I ask Secretary Idália to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries ( CPLP ) emerged from the dream of the establishment of a community of countries and peoples sharing the Portuguese language, based on a historical heritage, a common language and a shared vision of development and democracy. The CPLP then assumed itself as a new political project whose foundation is the Portuguese language, historical link and common heritage of the seven founding States, which, despite constituting a geographically discontinuous space, have an identifying trait that is the common language. This unity factor has, on a global level, been based on an increasingly significant and influential joint action. The overall objectives of the CPLP are political dialogue and cooperation in the social, cultural and economic fields, involving particularly the areas of health and education, food security of the environment, language and its dissemination, and in political-diplomatic consultation, and at this last point has been given increasing expression to common interests and needs in multilateral organizations such as the UN, FAO and WHO. It should also be stressed that, in view of the size and scope of the Portuguese language in the world and the importance of the luminophone universe in the political-diplomatic level, in the mobility of citizens and in the economic development, it is expected that the CPLP will have an even greater role on the various stages and international forums. In 2016, the CPLP celebrates its 20 years of existence and the Assembly of the Republic cannot fail to associate itself with this important efemeride, taking into account the fundamental role that the organization has played in Portugal since 17 July 1996, the date on which the first Summit of Heads of State and Government was held in Lisbon. Thus, the Members of the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, approved the following: 1 — To welcome the 20 years of existence of the CPLP, recognizing the importance of the organization in the area of the Lusophony and the international strengthening of the Portuguese language; 2 — To highlight the efforts that have been made to deepen the historical and linguistic links between the CPLP Member States and to create mechanisms for genuine cooperation between them; 3 — To encourage further development of this cooperation to enable greater international visibility and the enhancement of the strategic value of the lusophone universe, both politically and economically; 4 — To place on the importance of incentives to mobility for citizens, businesses and cultural and educational organisations as a development factor of the CPLP and to increase cooperation between the countries which constitute it. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u224	We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 20 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), the PSD. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u225	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u226	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u227	Mr President, it is to indicate that, on this vote, the Left Block bench will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u228	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We then proceed to vote No 14 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Congratulations on the World Travel Awards World Award for the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( CDS-PP ). I ask Secretary Abel Baptista to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The tourist destination Madeira has long meant a quality tourist destination for Portuguese and international visitors. The most recent prizes confirm that. First it was the ‘Best Island Destination of Europe’ prize in 2013 and 2014. More recently, and in the face of a competition from destinations like Bali, Barbados, Crete, Cook Islands, Jamaica, Maldives, Mauritius, Santa Lucia, Sardinia, Seychelles, Sicily and Zanzibar, Madeira won the award of ‘ Golden Island’ at the World Travel Awards gala, gala known as the Tourism Oscars. The distinction deserves even more attention if we consider it to be allocated after an online voting period, in which all netizens vote. This is a choice that ends up rewarding the fate that receives the greatest sympathy of the people. Madeira, which has been dedicated to this sector for many years, ended up being recognized, with most votes on 11 December 2015 in Morocco. From this example of honor, which is intended to reward the tourist brands that have stood out in the tourism industry, it is considered victorious that entrepreneurs and workers who, with their efforts, have reached the ‘ Gold. ’ The Assembly of the Republic thus congratulates the Autonomous Region of Madeira and all its tourist agents for the recognition achieved at the World Travel Awards gala as ‘The Golden Island’ for the ‘Best Island Destination of the World’.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u230	We shall vote no 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), of the CDS-PP. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 16 / XIII ( 1. ( a) — Of condemnation and concern for the conduct of nuclear tests ( BE ), which will be read by Secretary Moses Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On January 6, 2016, North Korea announced a nuclear test with a hydrogen bomb. This is another test that cannot pass without condemnation, which accentuates regional tensions and underlines the danger of an arms race. The tragic experiences of Hiroxima and Nagasaki, as well as the subsequent situations in which the use of nuclear weapons was prominent, such as during the missile crisis in Cuba or in other cases, demonstrate that the world remains safer without nuclear weapons. The danger of the existence and proliferation of nuclear weapons is permanent. Nuclear weapons are a risk to the security of humanity and its proliferation must be combated, as we must fight for the dismantling of the existing nuclear arsenal. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, ratified by Portugal in 1976, lays down the international commitment of all States to carry out ‘good faith negotiations on effective measures relating to the cessation of the nuclear arms race(...) and nuclear disarmament, and on a comprehensive and comprehensive disarmament treaty under strict and effective international control’. Unfortunately, that has not been the way. In 2011, approximately $100 billion was spent on nuclear programmes worldwide, with only the United States of America spending $61,300 million. Between 2010 and 2020, governments around the world will spend more than $950 billion on nuclear weapons. These choices must be reversed and cannot pass without condemnation either. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses great concern and condemns the nuclear test carried out by North Korea, rejects the arms policy and affirms the need for a global commitment to nuclear disarmament'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u232	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We now move on to vote No 18 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Condemnation by the nuclear test carried out by North Korea ( CDS-PP ). To read the vote, Mr. Secretary Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: ‘Last Wednesday, January 6, the North Korean regime claimed another nuclear test. To confirm, it will have been the fourth time, in 10 years, that North Korea has carried out exercises of this nature. This test constitutes an indisputable breach of North Korea's international obligations, in particular United Nations Security Council Resolutions Nos 1718, 1874 and 2087. The decision and attitude of North Korea are, of course, a serious threat to peace on the Korean peninsula, as well as to regional and international security. Despite the lingering doubts about the credibility of the claim of the Pyongyang regime that it had successfully carried out its first test of a hydrogen bomb, the Organisation of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (TBTO) confirmed not only the registration of seismic activity in the region as it maintained that the results obtained are consistent with those registered in similar exercise in 2013, with the role of North Korea. The provocative and incendiary language of the North Korean regime again generated alarm in north-east Asia and accelerated international mistrust over the intentions of the regime. The region has increased alerts and no one is indifferent to the content of the threats made by the regime, characterized by the unpredictable and potential use of nuclear weapons, pointing as preferential targets the territories of South Korea, Japan and the United States of America. The international community, including Russia and China, has unequivocally condemned this behaviour. The Security Council, the European Union and NATO have put the matter at the top of their agendas and demanded its end and return to credible and constructive dialogue, especially in the context of six-party talks. in this context, the Assembly of the Republic strongly condemns its aggressive behaviour and the rhetorical escalation developed by North Korea, denouncing the nuclear test carried out by the North Korean regime as a violation of international law and stressing the importance of its term and return to diplomacy and international negotiations".
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u234	We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) of the CDS-PP, which has just been read. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] We turn to vote No 19 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Condemnation by the nuclear test carried out by North Korea ( PSD ), which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « North Korea announced this week that for the first time it has tested a hydrogen bomb, stating that this is justified by being essential for its defence in relation to the United States of America. by carrying out this alleged nuclear test, the Pyongyang regime violates a set of United Nations resolutions that expressly prohibit any nuclear activity or related to ballistic missile technology and brings another instability factor to the international system. This North Korean decision led to its condemnation by the generality of the international community. Until China, North Korea's main ally, stated that it strongly opposes the alleged Pyongyang nuclear test, adding that the test was carried out despite the external opposition. Beijing has even strongly urged North Korea to respect its commitment to denuclearisation and to suspend any action that could make the situation even worse. The NATO Secretary-General also condemned the test carried out by North Korea, classifying it as a clear violation of UN Security Council resolutions, as well as Pyongyang’s “incendiary and threatening rhetoric”. We have found, therefore, that the reaction of condemnation to this test was determined and quite consensual within the international community, showing the general perception that Pyongyang's decisions place the country as a threat to regional and international security. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, therefore decides: 1 — Strongly condemn the alleged nuclear test carried out by North Korea, insofar as it represents a factor of regional and international insecurity; 2 — Call for North Korea to abandon its military nuclear programmes and ballistic missiles in a complete, verifiable and irreversible manner; 3 — To urge Pyongyang to engage in credible negotiations on the country's denuclearisation programme.'
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u236	We shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] We turn to vote No 22 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Condemning the conduct of nuclear tests by calling for the denuclearisation of the planet ( The Greens ). I ask Secretary Idália to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Since the launch of two nuclear bombs by the United States of America on Hiroxima and Nagasaki in Japan in August 1945, which is known as the worst expression of the damage of nuclear weapons to human lives and all nature, to the territory and consequently to the development that is desired harmonious and sustainable. Dramas like this represent a heavy and shameful heritage for humanity and can never be repeated. Even so, the nuclear arms race and the strengthening of nuclear power have not stopped since, constituting very black pages in the history of our planet, to which we urgently need to put an end. This race has already represented more than 2400 nuclear tests, mostly carried out by the United States of America, but also, among others, by Russia, France, the United Kingdom, China and India. The United States of America holds the largest number of nuclear warheads and has contributed to some interference and military intervention across the globe, jeopardizing peace in many regions of the world. In the meantime, North Korea announced that on 6 January 2016 it carried out nuclear tests with the H ( hydrogen) bomb in response to the nuclear power of the United States of America. Whereas the development and deflagration of nuclear weapons have a devastating impact on humanity and the planet, not only by the immediate destructive power it represents, but also by its persistence over time, with devastating effects on life, health and the environment; Whereas each nuclear test represents an ecological attack of incalculable dimensions on the planet and constitutes a threat to world peace; Whereas Portugal is a signatory to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and is therefore also responsible for the international effort to build a world free of nuclear weapons; The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, shall: 1 — Condemning all nuclear tests, including those carried out by North Korea on 6 January 2016, and appealing to the end of such experiences; 2 — Condemn the development of nuclear weapons in the world, with the conviction of the need for effective non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the reduction of arsenal with a view to their elimination, in particular in the United States of America, holders of the world's largest nuclear arsenal and who simultaneously exert strong pressure in certain regions of the globe, with the presence of a vast military potential, including nuclear, contributing to the instability and escalation of threats to various sovereign States and to peace in the world; 3 — Call for serious efforts to promote dialogue between countries for the progressive denuclearization of the planet and the guarantee of world peace. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u238	Mrs. Members, with regard to the vote that has just been read, vote No 22 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) ( The Greens ), the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP requested that points 1 and 3 be voted on together, and point 3 be voted on separately. Let us therefore vote on points 1 and 3. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS, PS and CDS-PP were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u239	Mr President, I call on the Bureau to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u240	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u241	Mr President, I could not understand the content of points 1 and 3. Since the vote is not on the website, just by reading, I couldn't fix it. But it's just to draw attention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u242	Madam Member, attention must be drawn to the direction of the banks, because, as has already been explained, these votes may arise, provided there is consensus, far above the votes and those who have to be distributed by the Members are the direction of the banks. Let us now vote on point 2 of vote No 22 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the NAP and the PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] The following vote: No 25 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Of condemnation and concern for the escalation of tension on the Korean peninsula ( PCP ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u243	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The nuclear test carried out by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is another worrying development in the dangerous military escalation that is underway in East Asia. The current situation on the Korean peninsula has historical roots, particularly in the Korean War and the unilateral division of this country imposed by the military intervention of the United States, which has since maintained a strong military presence—including nuclear weapons—in this peninsula and region (as in Japan), fueling a permanent tension that is contrary to the interests and aspirations of the Korean people to the peaceful reunification of their homeland. The deepening of the militaristic escalation, in itself a threat to peace, can have grave consequences for the Korean people, for the other peoples of this region and for humanity. The resolution of the conflict on the Korean peninsula calls for steps towards the dismantling of tension and respect for the basic principles of international relations, such as the sovereignty of States, non-interference in their internal affairs, non-threat and use of force to resolve disputes, peaceful resolution of conflicts. The serious international situation and the dangers of the outbreak of a large-scale conflict make the demand and effective commitment of all countries to the abolition of all nuclear weapons even more urgent. Seventy years after the United States launched atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroxima and Nagasaki, with its hundreds of thousands of dead and the sequels that last so far, we are placed before the demand to stop the passage to the nuclear threat. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : (a) expresses its deep concern at the nuclear testing carried out by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and its repercussions on the dangerous escalation of tension on the Korean and East Asian peninsula; (b) reaffirms the urgency of the simultaneous and controlled abolition of nuclear weapons and the commitment of the Portuguese State in order to achieve this objective, in line with the principle of general disarmament established in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic; (c) calls for the development of initiatives which, within the framework of respect for the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, aim at the denuclearisation and demilitarization of the Korean peninsula and its peaceful reunification, recognizing the right to peace to the Korean people and contributing to the dismantling in this region.'
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u244	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 25 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) of the PCP, which has just been read. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u245	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u246	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u247	Mr President, it is only to announce that, with regard to this last vote, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u248	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Of condemnation and concern for the executions carried out in Saudi Arabia ( BE ), which will be voted upon after their reading. Mr Moisés Ferreira has the palace to proceed to the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The dictatorship of Saudi Arabia has carried out several human rights abuses. Also recently, 47 people were executed, slaughtered by the sword or shot. Several non-governmental organizations warn of the significant increase in the number of executions since January 2015 when King Salman arrived on the throne after his father died. In 2015, at least 157 people were killed, the vast majority accused of linking them to terrorist organizations. Amnesty International ( AI ), having condemned the executions, considered that fulfilling these death sentences ‘when there are serious doubts about the legitimacy of the trial, it is monstrous and irreversible justice ’. It was condemned, in particular, the murder of Nimr al-Nimr, the Shiite religious leader of Saudi Arabia, which occurred on 2 January 2016, opposing the Saudi monarchy who fought for free elections and who claimed that the words were stronger than violence. According to AI, ‘the assassination of al-Nimr suggests that Saudi Arabia’s authorities are using the death penalty in the name of anti-terrorism to settle accounts and oppress dissidents. ’ The executions contributed to increased tensions in that region and Saudi Arabia cut diplomatic relations with Iran. To all these concerns, there is still the unequivocal participation of Saudi money and arms in the actions of Daesh (the self-proclaimed Islamic State ) as well as support for the expansion of religious fanaticism. This situation cannot leave anyone indifferent and the behaviour of the Portuguese State with Saudi Arabia must be questioned. Even recently, in April 2014, the Deputy Prime Minister of the time, Paulo Portas, officially visited Saudi Arabia with a commission of 45 entrepreneurs from several companies, including PT, EDP, BPI, Unicer, Martifer or Teixeira Duarte, where he signed a protocol for the end of double taxation of taxes between Portugal and that country. However, it does not show that human rights issues have been addressed in this visit. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses concern at the escalation of violence and religious fanaticism in Saudi Arabia and condemns the executions carried out by that monarchy as well as the instability created in that region».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u250	Mrs. Members, we shall vote on vote No 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), BE. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u251	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u252	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u253	To announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u254	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u255	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u256	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, i.e. to announce that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP will present a declaration of vote on the vote that has just been taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u257	Mrs. Members, vote No 21 / XIII is followed ( 1 ). ( a ) — Condemnation of the death penalty and destruction of diplomatic structures in the Middle East ( PSD ). Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The recent decision of Saudi Arabia to execute 46 people, accused of incitement to terrorism and disobedience to the Saudi Royal House, among which was the important Shia cleric Nimr al-Nimr, generated a huge wave of challenge in the Arab world, especially among Shia communities, and even provoked protests against Saudi embassies in various parts of the world. The Assembly of the Republic, in line with the traditional Portuguese position against the death penalty, cannot but clearly repudiate these executions and, among them, that of the Shia clergyman, lamenting the instability that the same generated in that region. The tension between Riade and Tehran is a major concern for the international community, as it may even endanger the peace talks for the region in which these countries intervene actively. The division of diplomatic relations between Saudi Arabia and Iran following the attack and invasion of the Saudi embassy in Tehran and a consulate in Mashhad increased the hostility between the two countries. The attack on diplomatic structures is unacceptable in the light of international law and has even led the United Nations Security Council to condemn this violent action and to appeal to the Iranian authorities to protect diplomatic and consular property and its personnel and to respect their international obligations. In the face of growing cliché, it is important that Arab leaders succeed in adopting measures that will help to calm tension and strengthen security in the region. It is essential that dialogue and moderation be above verbal, physical or diplomatic violence. The Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary therefore decides: 1 — Condemning the execution of prisoners in Saudi Arabia, including that of Shia cleric Nimr al-Nimr, in line with Portugal's traditional position against the application of the death penalty; 2 — Condemn the attack and invasion of diplomatic structures, which occurred following such deaths; 3 — Call for restraint and negotiation between the parties so that it may be possible to resume the course of dialogue between the various countries of the region'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u259	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 21 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) the PSD, which has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u260	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u261	What are you doing, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u262	Mr President, it is to announce that, with regard to this last vote, we will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u263	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to vote No 26 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Condemning for the execution of 47 persons in Saudi Arabia ( PCP ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The year 2015 ended with the decision of Saudi Arabia to execute 47 people, including a prominent Shia clergyman, opposition to the regime, Nimr al-Nimr, and several other citizens, particularly young people, who participated in or involved in demonstrations that took place between 2011 and 2013 in that country and were crushed by force, as in neighbouring Bahrain, with the intervention of the armed forces of Saudi Arabia. The execution of these 47 people is not an isolated case in that country, only in 2015 were 150 persons beheaded by the Saudi Arabia criminal system, particularly for religious reasons. The Saudi authorities' argument that these executions are part of the fight against terrorism is a blatant lie. As stated by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Jordanian Prince Zeid Raad al-Hussein, some of the people sentenced to death were charged with non-violent crimes, adding to this the allegations and doubts, including by the UN Commission on Human Rights, about the conduct of judicial proceedings. The unacceptable hypocrisy of the Saudi authorities to invoke the fight against terrorism to justify execution is still denied by the fact that, already disseminated by various means and recognised in broad sectors, that a significant part of the financial resources used to finance and arm terrorist groups that embrace the Arab world — in particular those linked to the so-called ‘Islamic State’ — come from that country and that some of these groups have links to Saudi power centres. The executions that have now taken place are inextricable from a deliberate action of the Saudi system of incitement to religious and sectarian hatred in the Middle East region and, more than a provocation to Shia communities, constitute a deliberate strategy to undermine the fragile positive developments in the diplomatic field, aiming at the dismantling of the situation in the region in particular with regard to Iran and Syria. This policy of Saudi Arabia, which is indissociable from the plans aimed at sectarian reform in the Middle East, is also clearly evident in its action as a regional ironhead of the main imperialist powers, notably through direct military aggression to neighbouring countries, such as Yemen since March 2015, where Saudi bombings are already responsible for the death of 4000 people and for the destruction of cities and infrastructures in that country or for military occupation to protect regimes subject to foreign interests to the region, such as Bahrain, headquarters of the V U.S. Team. The impunity with which Saudi Arabia represses and disrespects the most basic human rights in its own territory and carries out actions that may have very serious consequences in the already extremely tense situation in the Middle East is not dissociable from the support that this regime enjoys with the main world powers, in particular the US and NATO, with which it maintains deep and privileged economic relations and holds multimillionaire arms supply contracts. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary: 1 - Condemns the execution of 47 persons by the Saudi authorities, including political opponents to the Saudi regime, including Shia cleric Nimr Al-Nimr; 2 - The Portuguese Government calls for a clear and unequivocal condemnation of an act that deepens the destabilization and logic of division of the Middle East region, the dramatic consequences of which include, inter alia, the destruction of countries, including the lay states in the region, hundreds of thousands of deaths and the wave of millions of refugees fleeing the war and its economic and social repercussions."
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u265	We shall vote for this vote, and the PS requested that we vote separately on points 1 and 2. Let us therefore vote on point 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Mr Hugo Lopes Soares asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u266	Mr President, to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u267	All right. Be registered. Mr. Hélder Amaral also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u268	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u269	Be registered. Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u270	Mr President, on my own behalf, I will also make a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u271	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u272	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u273	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u274	Mr President, since we have finished voting on the various votes, and since I did not at the time, I would like to say at this time that I will present a vote on the vote on vote No 24 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) on the death of women human rights activists in Turkey.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u275	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on diplomas relating to other important aspects related to our life here in Parliament. We begin by voting on draft resolution No 60 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Construction of a home of elderly people in the parish of Quinta do Conde, municipality of Sesimbra, Setúbal district ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u276	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u277	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u278	Mr President, that is to say that the PS Members elected by the Setúbal electoral circle will present a vote statement on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u279	We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Income Tax Code for Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November, transposing Council Directive 2015 / 121 / EU of 27 January 2015 amending Council Directive 2011 / 96 / EU of 30 November 2011 on the common tax system applicable to parent companies and affiliated companies of different Member States. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall vote on draft resolution No 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend additional Community measures for dairy cattle farming ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Greens, the votes against the NAP and the Abstentions of BE and the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u280	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u281	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u282	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u283	Be registered. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 57 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent initiatives for the defence and sustainability of the national dairy sector following the end of the milk quota scheme in the European Union ( BE ), which, the request of the PS and the CFP, we shall vote point to point. Let's start by voting point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN were rejected, votes against BE and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on point 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the BE and the PAN, and abstentions against the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 5. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 59 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the promotion of measures to defend national milk production ( CFP ) for which the PS requested that we first vote points 1, 3, 5 and 6 and second points 2, 4, 7 and 8. Let us begin by voting points 1, 3, 5 and 6. [[The voting was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] Let us vote on points 2, 4 and 7. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u284	Let us now vote on point 8. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall now vote in general on Bill No 86 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures the impermissibility and impossibility of execution of the mortgage of the housing property itself and permanently due to tax debts ( amends the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October ) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] A request by the PSD for discharge to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization is followed in the vote script, without a vote, for a period of 15 days, of Bill No 87 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Protects the household in the context of tax enforcement proceedings from the authorship of the Socialist Party. According to the Rules of Procedure, a parliamentary group may request further consideration of a text by a parliamentary committee provided that it obtains the author's notice. However, in this case, as the author does not give notice, this request cannot be admitted by the Bureau, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u285	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u286	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u287	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u288	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u289	Mr President, I would like to see whether the Socialist Party has justified its non-announcement. It's just, as far as we know,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u290	The Bureau does not have to do that...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u291	Mr President, allow me to finish my inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u292	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u293	As he said, we know from now on, the Socialist Party will make it possible, on the same subject, for the Commission to come down to a draft PCP law. Our request is very simple. Yesterday, we said that we have proposals, that we want to help improve a project that has errors...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u294	Mr President, you have no right to make an intervention on the pretext of an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u295	Mr President, I can exercise the statutory right to make a request. In fact, I don't know if I can then turn this question into an application, since I have not been given this rule of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u296	Mr President, this request is not admitted by the Bureau. We're not going to provoke a parliamentary incident with this. The Bureau shall not exceed the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u297	Of course we do, we understand...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u298	Of course it cannot exceed the Rules of Procedure. Only with the announcement of the proposing party. So we will not continue this parliamentary incident just to insist on a debate that has already taken place in this House. Understand the position of the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u299	I understand, respect and Mr President could do nothing else. The Socialist Party is that it should make a different decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u300	But the Bureau cannot give guidance to the parties to justify why they do the or b. It is not up to the Bureau to do this.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u301	We respect that. We just don't understand why and we think the PS doesn't want to solve the problems well, either it's political game, nothing more.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u302	Mr António Leitão Amaro, the work must continue. Mrs. Members, we continue to vote with the general vote on Bill No 87 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Protects the household under tax enforcement procedures ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. The vote on an application submitted by the CFP was followed by a request for discharge to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 88 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes a system for the impermenability of the housing itself and permanent, setting restrictions on the failure and execution of mortgages ( PCP ). Since this requirement is from the PCP itself, you do not have to request annunciation. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 89 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Suspends the penhoras and sales of own and permanent housing in tax enforcement processes and determines the application of a regime for impermissibility of such buildings ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u303	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u304	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u305	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President, without, of course, questioning the determination of the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u306	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u307	I would like to warn Mr President of the possibility of the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing also to be heard in this area and, as such, it would be within the framework of cooperation between committees, since it is a matter that is deeply related to the right to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u308	I believe that this issue should be discussed between the chairmen of the two committees. But there is no tradition of diplomas coming down to two committees.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u309	I know that, Mr. President. I'm just alerting.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u310	I believe that contact between the two presidents will allow this hearing if possible. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 52 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Bans banks from unilaterally altering interest rates and other contractual conditions ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 90 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — I have established the obligation of banking institutions to fully reflect Euribor's decline in credit contracts for housing and consumption ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u311	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u312	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u313	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u314	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 8 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Replacement of retired national holidays ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We then generally vote on Bill No. 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restores the national holidays of the Implementation of the Republic on 5 October and the Restoration of Independence on 1 December ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 20 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Replaces compulsory national holidays which have been eliminated ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, as amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August ) ( Os Verdes ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 8 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Planned revision of the suspension of religious holidays and corresponding civil holidays ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 33 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restoration of deleted national holidays ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 51 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Review of the suspension of religious holidays ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 55/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restoration of deleted holidays ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 63 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the agreement with the Holy See for the restitution of religious holidays ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u315	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u316	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u317	Mr President, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would like to leave a statement of vote following the replacement of holidays which simply surrounds : Long live the Republic! Long live independence! [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u318	Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on draft law No 83 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures the freeness of the bank base account ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The general vote on Bill No 92 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Determines the obligation of credit institutions to provide a deposit account to the standardised order designated as « basic account », and prohibits the collection of fees, expenses or other charges by the services provided under that account ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall vote on draft resolution No 62 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Suspension of curricular targets and opening a debate process for the definition of objectives for a real and deep curriculum reform ( CFP ). I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an amendment to this diploma by the resolution party and the heading I suppose everyone knows. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on a request by BE for the discharge to the Education and Science Committee, without a vote, for a further assessment for a period of 15 days of draft resolution No 56 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Rationalization of contracts for association with private education, ensuring the protection of public school ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We also vote on a request by the CFP for a discharge to the Committee on Education and Science, without a vote, for a new assessment, for a 15-day period of draft resolution No 61 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By a public school that covers the needs of the entire population ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 44 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Against the relocation of Triumph International by safeguarding all jobs and the fulfilment of workers'rights ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u319	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u320	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u321	Mr President, it is in order to announce that, on this vote, the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u322	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we now vote on draft resolution No 31 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the repeal of Regulation No 1 -A / 2011 on the regulation of the Code of Contributing Regimes of the Preventive Social Security System ( CFP ). As you know, the author withdrew paragraph 1 from the draft resolution within the Commission. The PSD calls for a separate vote on points 2 and 3 of this diploma. We shall therefore vote on point 2 of this motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on point 3 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions against the PS and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 52 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes the extension of the deadline for the change in the scale of contribution of workers to the green receipt ( BE ). [[When the vote was taken, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the Diaries of the Assembly of the Republic are under approval, 1. the series, paragraphs 11 to 15, for plenary meetings of 27 November and 2, 3, 9 and 10 December 2015. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mr Duarte Pacheco will report on the entry into the Bureau of a legislative initiative. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u323	Mr. President and Mr. Members, just to inform you that you have entered the Bureau, and it has been admitted, draft resolution No 68 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Standardisation of the application of the special retirement scheme for children's educators and teachers of 1. the basic school cycle of public education in a monodocnic system that completed the primary and early childhood education department in 1975 and 1976 ( BE), which lowers to 8. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-08.u324	Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 13 January, at 3 p.m., on the following agenda: from point 1, the joint debate on draft resolutions 49 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the new Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada ( PSD ) and 69 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — By requalifying the current and construction of new building of the Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada ( PCP ). The discussion of the projects of lein.o 18 / XIII ( 1 ) is followed in point 2. ( a ) — Replacement of 35 hours of weekly work in the Public Administration ( The Greens) and 7 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Replies 35 hours per week as a normal period of work in public service by amending Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June ( CFP ) and Bill No 180 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sets the duration of the normal working period of workers in public service in the Autonomous Region of the Azores ( ALRAA ). Point 3 will be discussed in draft resolution No 45 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures to finance specialized artistic music and dance schools to ensure their stability ( CFP ). Finally, Decree-Law No 182 / 2015 of 31 August, which defines the procedures for the regularization of the debts of the extinct House of Douro with the nature of public association, as provided for in Decree-Law No 152 / 2014 of 15 October[ Parliamentary assessments No 10 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( BE) and 5 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 38 minutes.]]
