ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Members of the Government, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, the first point of which is the urgent debate required by the Government on the enhancement of the territory, I will give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the file. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 157 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Transparency of Political Chargeholders and High Public Charges ( BE ), which falls to the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, 158 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Freeze the value of the propines for 1. o, 2. o is 3. the higher education cycles ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 159 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; draft resolutions 232 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthening public responses in the area of diabetes ( PCP ), 233 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Considers the construction of the new hospital of the Autonomous Region of Madeira as a project of common interest ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 235 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the regulation of the profession of gerontologist ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 236 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the qualification of physical education as a central element of public school ( BE ), which falls to 8. The Commission, 237 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government increase from three to five cycles of assisted drug treatment, shared by the National Health Service ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 238 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures to prevent and combat diabetes and intermediate hyperglycaemia ( PAN), 239 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government Public Management of José Luciano de Castro Hospital, Anadia ( BE ), 240 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government public management of the Hospital de Fafe ( BE ), 241 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government public management of the Hospital de Serpa ( BE), 242 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends prohibition on the use of glyphosate ( The Greens) and 243 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Advance travel of the President of the Republic to Mozambique ( RA President ). Three opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees were also included in the Bureau. The first opinion relating to PND-38 / 2015, of the Inspectorate General of the Internal Administration, is in the sense of authorising Mr João Pinho de Almeida ( CDS-PP ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the opinion on PND 38 / 2015, of the Inspectorate General of the Internal Administration, is to authorize Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila ( CDS-PP ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] Since there are no requests for a word, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u6	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the third opinion relating to Case No 195 / 13.3TELSB of the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic is to authorize Mr Pedro Passos Coelho ( PSD ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if there are no objections, we shall vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will move on to the first item on the agenda, which consists of the urgent debate required by the Government on the development of the territory. For an intervention on behalf of the Government, you have the floor, Mr Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, valuing the territory is one of the six pillars of the National Reform Programme (NRP ) coordinated by the Ministry of the Environment: the national territory, which we also look at with the sea that belongs to us, is a set of urban and natural resources that connect in a unique way and whose appreciation is essential to ensure national unity and its differentiation. Read in its summary, the appreciation of the territory has an essentially urban focus. It is natural that this is the case, both by the concentration of people and activities and by the greater convergence of investments in these spaces. But, as we shall see, the natural spaces also speak of this Program as well as of all the territories of low densities to which we commonly call interior. urban and metropolitan spaces emerge investments in the housing park, energy efficiency and mobility. More than 1 million housing buildings need interventions and the PNR integrates three major-purpose initiatives that complement urban rehabilitation, introducing a coherent public policy that democratizes access to housing in urban centres always with a very strong component of energy efficiency. In addition to speeding up the IFRU ( Financial Instrument for Urban Rehabilitation and Revitalization), which will channel around EUR 800 million in the recovery of buildings in the noble areas of major urban centres, the Casa Efficient program and the National Fund for Rehabilitation of the Building are new. Just because IFRU is intended for historic centres, coastal areas and other abandoned industrial spaces, that is, it has a geographical scope of necessary but restricted intervention, we feel the need to draw an instrument aimed at the entire territory that can, to the limit, be used residential fraction the housing fraction in order to promote the energy efficiency of the dwellings and reduce the bill of households. It is to this financing instrument that we call Casa Efficient and that will have as manager and adder the Portuguese Confederation of Construction and Real Estate (CPCI). Finally, I refer to the national fund for the rehabilitation of the building, an instrument dedicated essentially to the rehabilitation of public buildings, which has as its basis the Fund for Financial Stabilization of Social Security and which aims to guarantee the market for rental at affordable prices which ensures the democratization of access to housing in the center of cities. The management of the fund shall be the responsibility of the Fund, which already exists and is protected by the Ministry of Finance and supervised by the CMVM ( Committee on the Securities Market ). Each building will have to pass the isolated cry of its profitability. with regard to mobility, and always with the goal of decarbonizing the economy, the PNR designs a coherent programme that places on the development of rail transport at national level, in the construction of a single logistics window that facilitates the business and rationalization of transport chains, in a new concept of urban mobility that seeks to give an expressive qualitative leap, which it has been waiting for decades. New forms of collective transport management, an innovative and electrical taxi fleet, the expansion of the meters of Lisbon and Porto are good examples to highlight, as well as a new way of thinking, planning and managing that responsible the metropolitan authorities and the authorities. The circular economy will be an essential driver of development in a new way of planning, designing and producing goods and the main contribution of the Ministry of the Environment to job creation. We understand the circular economy as a sustainable value chain that begins in the design of products that use less resources and more reused or recycled materials and produce less waste. The Ministry of the Environment can take an active part in an initiative that is highly dependent on economic operators in various ways: by creating a platform that enables economic operators to know good practice, by promoting pilot experiences of agglomerating economic activities, including green taxation initiatives, by investing in the final destination of waste with techniques that promote recycling and its energy use. Finally, look at the territory in an integrated way and act on it not as a homeland of events but as an active agent of its own transformation. They correspond to new types of intervention integrated into the NRP, which, as a whole, will consolidate a new pattern of territorial competitiveness; the creation of the Blue Fund for the promotion of new activities linked to the economy of the sea; the development of new irrigation projects; the intransigent defense of our coast line by the biodiversity that it closes; the progressive removal of obstacles that prevent rivers from being free; a new look at the conservation of nature that recognizes people and their presence as a distinctive element of ecosystems. The activity of the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior (UMVI) will integrate and maximize the government's sectoral policies for a share of the territory so rich in resources. Finally, and in addition to the PNR, there is the guarantee that we will start the revision of the National Territorial Planning Policy Programme ( PNPOT ), which will for one year include new demographic trends, adaptation needs for climate change and, among other things, will be able to design an urban system appropriate to the new development needs of the country. I conclude by affirming the modernity of a reform program that fits and potentiates the dynamics of transformation of the national territory, recognizing the differences, but also the complementarity of urban spaces and low density spaces. This is a reform programme which also seeks to territorialize development in the conviction that, as a result, we will be closer to a society that is fairer and more decarbonized. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u9	We will now move on to the first round of requests for clarification. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Berta Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Making Portugal a more cohesive and competitive country, with effective equal opportunities for all citizens, wherever they live, must be a national objective. A country that can generate and fix wealth and employment, contributing to the construction of a more competitive economy, a more supportive society and a more balanced territory between the coast and the interior, between the continent and autonomous regions, growing sustainably and at one and only speed, is what we all certainly want. To this end, it is necessary to specify goals, define actions, determine responsible entities and execute a programme that promotes effective strengthening of territorial cohesion. Follow-up to the development strategy outlined, continuing to generate wealth and employment within the country and setting the economic value of endogenous resources in each area of the national territory is what is expected of those who favour the interest of Portugal and Portuguese. For this reason, and moved by the highest national interest, the PSD brings here today a set of proposals, thus seeking to continue to contribute, responsibly, to the cohesion of this great nation, which is Portugal. For us, the value of the territory is not to reverse the process of restructuring the water sector, praised by the European Commission itself and which has returned economic and financial sustainability to the sector and improved the conditions of the services provided. Valuing the territory is not nullifying the procedures for granting urban transport, penalizing taxpayers. The value of the territory is not to provide the metropolitan areas with more and more powers and competences to the detriment of municipalities and inter-municipal communities, which exercise them in a logic of greater proximity to the population. Valuing the territory is not ultimately interrupting the reforms that the country has successfully implemented and that need to be consolidated in order to produce more and better results. Furthermore, as Mario Draghi recently said in Lisbon, in a sequence of well-founded praise to the work carried out by the PSD Government / CDS-PP, it makes no sense to reverse the reforms undertaken and under way, and it is first necessary to preserve the results already achieved and accelerate the growth of the economy. The NRP cannot be a national programme of revisions, it must be a true National Reform Programme, second generation reforms, which promote the modernization and development of the country as a whole. For the PSD, valuing the territory is first of all to develop, integrate and articulate the various sectoral policies, ensuring greater coordination of the interventions of different actors, whether public or private, national, regional, intermunicipal and local, ensuring territorial cohesion and correcting imbalances. Valuing the territory implies the recognition of the structural specificities of each region and its complexities — demographic, economic, social, environmental and technological. In other words, to enhance the territory is to continue with the reform of the water sector on the basis of the strategy for the water supply and sanitation sector for 2020, promoting the sustainability and quality of services provided; to take on the protection of existing natural resources, valuing those that the country can enjoy sustainably, enhancing sustainable development; to encourage a circular economy, which not only allows job creation as a priority for the use of renewable sources of resources; to bet on green growth, continuing green taxation reform, in a framework of fiscal neutrality; and to choose water efficiency as a priority vector for the use of resources. Protecting and valuing our coastline and managing the coastal area in an integrated way is also to value the territory. To value the territory is to reduce the energy dependence of the outside and introduce sustainable production and consumption patterns, to bet on housing and urban rehabilitation policies, by introducing these matters within the regional competitiveness and quality of the territory,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u11	I ask you to synthesize, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u12	... is to create a status of the territories of low density and very low density, which achieves a set of positive discrimination oriented towards the fixing of persons. in this sense, and with the non-conformist spirit in the diagnosis, reformist in the solutions and optimist in the results, with the enhanced legitimacy of those who saw their majority electoral program and positively supported by the Portuguese and, above all, concerned with the future and the new generations, the PSD presents a resolution project with 39 measures, aiming to contribute to an effective appreciation of the territory. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u13	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Members are inscribed. Mr Renato Sampaio and Mr Luís Vilhena. Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are debating in this House a fundamental axis of the National Reform Plan, the enhancement of the territory, the National Reform Plan that closes genuine and authentic reforms, structural reforms that, implemented, will structurally modify Portugal, making it a modern, competitive and sustainable country. The PS has a very different view of the necessary reforms, unlike the previous government which confused reforms with simple austerity measures that brought the country back many years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are ambitious for reforms aimed at people rather than at economics which, in recent years, have led to the impoverishment of people and we want reforms centered on the Real Country, on progress and on development, where equal opportunities are a reality. The times of a salazarist vision that we do not want to return to are far away, a poor country and a rich state, although with the former government they had both become poorer. We haven't come here to make a report of what we haven't done in four years. We want reforms focusing on the proximity of public policies, on the decentralization and decentralisation of the State, on the enhancement of the interior, unlike the previous government, which closed public services and abandoned rural development. We do not want a Portugal centered in Lisbon, in which the rest of the country is landscape. We are very proud in the capital of our country, but we want a more cohesive, more supportive Portugal, in which each Portuguese feels and is of whole body, whatever the territorial space he inhabits. The National Reform Plan radically changes the development model and creates a new paradigm, focusing on people's valorization and territorial and economic cohesion, the competitiveness of cities, urban regeneration and the requalification of public spaces, combating climate change and promoting environmental sustainability. Decentralisation and intervention, with active policies for low-density territories, valuing the interior, are a priority for the PS and for the government and, therefore, we would like to see these policies here, in this debate, also deserve very special attention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u15	Mr Luís Vilhena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Minister, in this reform plan presented by the Government, of the six announced vectors I consider valuing the territory as the most important vector and that may possibly define a new development paradigm for Portugal. unlike the last government which, in the face of the international economic and financial crisis, was not creative enough to find a new development paradigm, the PS government now takes the value of the territory as a national design and puts urban regeneration, green mobility, the energy efficiency of the building and the circular economy on the main governance agenda. Only for this reason do I consider it highly worthwhile to place these matters with the emphasis they really deserve, but which they have never deserved due attention before. But these measures do not only have the gains that can be guessed in the quality of life of people. These measures may have a side effect on economic dynamisation, which is not only important, and urban regeneration operations are examples of this. After the abrupt end of the previous development cycle, which led to unemployment and forced thousands of workers from the construction sector to emigrate, what did the previous government do? He fell asleep at the wheel. He rested on the private initiative that, in a very clever and valuable way, found a philanthropist in the requalification of some built in the historic centers of the cities of Lisbon and Porto. Only that the private initiative, always welcome, is true, alone, is not enough for a global policy of urban regeneration. Public intervention plays a decisive role in the success of urban and landscape retraining plans, either through incentives and support for certain operations that combat gentrification processes, as well as, of course, in intervention in the public space that the private initiative will certainly not take into account. Mr Minister, I am not going to ask you any questions because this chapter seems clear to me, lacking only now to establish operational programmes to consolidate these objectives, but I am going to challenge you:...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u17	You have to launch the challenge quickly, Member of Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u18	... that these policies of valuing the territory not only remain by the large urban centers and reach the smaller cities, towns and villages, where the precious characteristics of the places are a value that we cannot abandon, on the contrary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u19	Mr Heitor Sousa, from the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand that the technical notes that the Government has made following this urgent debate constitute a significant step forward in defining policies and measures on sustainable mobility, on the decarbonization of the economy and cities and also on the enhancement of the territory and we cannot fail to point out this progress at the beginning of our intervention and to welcome the developments proposed by the Government here. But this should not make us ignore that, in the technical notes that have been distributed, there are some areas in which we need further clarification and, above all, we believe that there are areas that need to be improved and even valued. I am referring, essentially, in my speech, to issues relating to sustainable mobility. And, in line with the strategic objectives presented by the Government in its framework note, we believe that there are aspects of these strategic objectives that need to be better clarified. We want to highlight two of these strategic objectives and bring them here for discussion. The first concerns the integrated management of transport networks, either in metropolitan areas or in urban areas in general, and the second concerns the question of equity in access and social inclusion of sustainable mobility. With regard to integrated network management, one of the essential things to promote the integrated management of transport networks is the creation of mechanisms that force this integration and, as the Minister knows, one of the main mechanisms that can force the effective integration of transport networks in the metropolitan areas, the introduction of a single tariff system, which regulates all the provision of collective transport services in the metropolitan regions of Lisbon and Porto. At this level, however, in the case of the Metropolitan Region of Lisbon, we can talk about a total chaos with regard to the tariff regime. There is no single tariff system, there are more than 800 transport titles that are likely to be used in the metropolitan area of Lisbon and, with this complete forest, where no one knows well what exists to be acquired, it is clear that there is here a set of inefficiencies in the management of the transport system and the management of the companies themselves that promote and offer this transport system that cannot be ignored anymore. And from this point of view, we believe that the idea of a single compulsory tariff is an essential idea to promote such integration. Then another issue, which is no less important in this new concept of urban mobility that Mr Minister presented in his speech, concerns equity and social inclusion measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u21	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u22	I will now conclude, Mr President, but I just wanted to strengthen the role of collective transport as an instrument for promoting equity and social inclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u23	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u24	And from this point of view, it cannot be ignored that one of the ways in which the previous Government has adopted to socially exclude huge sectors of the society of public transport was to increase the price of transport in a stupid way so that a number of social sectors could not have access to such transport. That is why I would suggest to you, Minister, that this measure could be better worked out by the Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u25	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for the Environment, I listened very carefully to you, and I confess to you that I was disturbed — once again, I was perplexed. And that's because I hear your words, Minister, and I'm listening to a consultant, who gives clues, does analysis, opens scenarios, creates ideals. And the worrying question, Minister, is that you are not a consultant, you are Minister of the Government of Portugal and it is up to you to decide, execute, and not to theorize. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u27	That is to say, Mr Minister, it is up to you to govern. And, four months back, you only hear some vague ideas and you see nothing concrete. In this regard, and speaking precisely about valuing the territory and social cohesion, I would once again like to address the V.E.A. to talk more specifically about the water issue of the reform which came into force in July 2015 and which was the result of a work of about three years. Another reform that you criticise and that you're saying you want to reverse, without anyone ever understood as well as you want to make that reversal. The first question, Minister, has exactly to do with the development of the territory and social cohesion. It is that, before the reform carried out by former Minister Assumption Cristas and former Minister Jorge Moreira da Silva, there were 11 tariffs, 11 different water prices, with enormous damage to the interior and populations with less resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u28	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u29	With the restructuring of the sector, there were only 5 tariffs, thus harmonizing the price more, with clear advantage to the populations who need it most. Now, the Socialist Government is coming to say that it wants, again, 11 different tariffs. Mr Minister, this is exactly the opposite of social cohesion and the value of the territory. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u30	The second question I want to let you deal with the model. It is, Mr Minister, that no one has yet understood the model that the Government wants to implement in the water sector, nor has anyone understood the driving wire, which is the rational one of what you, here and there, is saying what you want to do. The idea remains that you are planning a reversal to the map, in the taste of many local requests that conflict with the general interest and that nothing good wishes. It is that the restructuring of the water sector, implemented by the previous Government, allowed, as I said, to balance tariffs in Portugal. But in addition, it also allowed the debts of the municipalities to fall by EUR 40 million. Similarly, with this restructuring, the path towards solving the serious problem of the tariff deficit has been reached, the annual value of this deviation of around 82 million per year has fallen to an estimate of EUR 27 million in 2016, i.e. less EUR 55 million. On the other hand, the debt of the water group in Portugal fell from about EUR 3000 million to around EUR 2400 million, i.e., it fell from around EUR 680 million. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u31	The cost economy, as a result of the aggregation, already saves about EUR 2 million per year. And all this, Mr Minister, without ever being concerned, without ever being questioned, the excellent quality of service provided or the exemplary quality of water for human consumption in Portugal. I conclude, Mr Minister, with this recurring question: what model does you intend to implement as an alternative to this one, which has only nine months of existence, but which has already given all the evidence of your success? What model does V.E.A. have in his sleeve, which could have even better results? So far, Mr Minister, no one has understood what the alternative is. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u32	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This debate takes place on the day immediately following the implementation of the PCP Parliamentary Days, which discussed the issue of combating regional asymmetries, for regional development. The districts of Vila Real and Bragança, like the other regions of the interior of our country, have been quite shaken by the right-wing policy, which has led to the de-investment, the impoverishment and depreciation of productive sectors, the destruction of jobs and unemployment, desertification, today facing these regions a dramatic problem in the level of demographics. Policies have led to the closure of numerous companies and various public services, such as schools, health services and courts. Policies that have emphasized isolation, which deny the right to mobility of the populations and to which not even the parishes have escaped, with the extinction of more than a thousand parishes, against the will of the populations and the authorities. We are tired of hearing, sometimes without account, several proclamations for the promotion of territorial cohesion, particularly by the PSD/CDS government, but what the reality is that PSD and CDS, instead of contributing to the elimination of regional asymmetries, have further aggravated them, following their political and ideological options. The interior cannot be just landscape, which obviously needs to protect and safeguard. The interior cannot only be for tourism. The interior has life, has people and also constitutes a richness and territorial diversity, which thanks our country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: For the CFP, as we have stated on our parliamentary days, the value of the territory goes through combating asymmetries; it goes through an integrated regional development policy, in all its dimensions, which takes into account, in particular, the use of the potentials of each territory, its resources and wealth, through the promotion of national production and the creation of employment; it goes through the protection of public services of proximity and quality and the guarantee of access to the social functions of the State; it goes through the conservation and protection of resources and natural heritage and the environment, ensuring its management in the public sphere (in particular, natural and protected areas, waters and waste); and it necessarily passes through a policy that plans the national territory in an integral way. in this context, and related to the territorial administrative reorganization, the question of the creation of administrative regions assumes strategic importance, giving realization of a true process of regionalization and decentralization, without the deresponsibility of the government of its tasks and competences and without questioning the universality of social functions. The CFP will present a legislative initiative for the replacement of the CFP. The appreciation of the territory requires the harmonious and balanced development of the national territory, both in urban and rural areas, requires the fight against asymmetries and inequalities, as a way to ensure better living conditions for the people and development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u34	Before speaking to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I wanted to ask the Members. Ladies and gentlemen standing up to go out or sit down. Please, Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens feel that it is not possible to talk about valuing the territory without talking about the fight against regional asymmetries and, therefore, about the objective of territorial cohesion. And the question is this: what does the Government consider it essential to do immediately to pursue the objective of combating regional asymmetries? It is that, from the perspective of the Greens, this should be a transversal objective. In fact, in order to combat regional asymmetries, we cannot use the same recipe that the previous government used, which did exactly the opposite, i.e. liquidated economic activity, liquidated the capacity and potential of rural areas, in our country, to develop, in particular, through the closure of a set of public services. It is that we know that people can only be installed if they generate economic activity and if there are public services that respond to the needs of care that people have — that is an unquestionable truth. We also know that human presence in the rural world is fundamental to combating the scourge or, at least, to the size of forest fires in our country. And we know that the depopulation and desertification of the country's interior is a disaster we have to fight. It is true that sustainable mobility is a determining factor in combating regional asymmetries. Clearly, rail transport is crucial as one of the least polluting transports to promote regional linkage in our country. And it is true that, so far, the logic of rail policy in Portugal has been to close railway lines — all contrary to what the country needs. Now, inverting this logic is also fundamental. But urban mobility in our cities is also a central issue. And the Minister for the Environment has already referred to this. however, The Greens consider the following: we must move on to the practical discourse. Now, around Lisbon and other cities in our country, very few kilometres away from these centres, there are areas where a real compulsory collection is required, from appreciably 20 hours—it cannot be, we must guarantee mobility for people! What's going on? People, as they have no answer to return home to collective transport, use individual transport. And then we're going to cry out: "Alas, alas, climate change! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And this is a challenge that matters to fight, it is true. But if we don't create alternatives to people, what do people do? And then there is a carbon charge on a cost that the person has to have for the use of his individual transport because he does not have the alternative of collective transport. Well, we have to be realistic about the issues. But as far as the carbon rate is concerned, it is a fundamental issue which is green taxation. Mr Minister, I assure you that the Green Taxation or any proposal for Green Taxation coming from this Government does not come with the aim of bringing out millions of euros to people, as proposed by the previous reform of Green Taxation in the previous Government, the sole aim of which was to take out 150 million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u36	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u37	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, as the Minister here exemplifies the creation of fees to discourage less friendly behaviors of the environment, I want you to say that you will also create benefits to encourage more friendly behaviors of the environment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u38	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Minister of the Environment, we have observed a constant concern of the Government with various sectors of society, seeking solutions that diminish the problems raised. However, such movements have not extended themselves to other areas which should deserve the same attention and concern in solving problems in our territory, in particular those related to the protection and preservation of nature, listening to the scientific contributions that alert us to the existing dangers. from our point of view, it is not possible to value the territory as long as we continue with policies to let the territory burn, let hunt throughout the territory, keep countless livestock in illegality throughout the territory and allow pollution and destruction of our lands and rivers throughout the territory, flood the last wild valleys with the construction of dams throughout the territory, drill the territory in search of fossil fuels that pollute the territory, and also do nothing to prevent a nuclear accident that may have grave repercussions throughout the territory. It has not been seen by the Ministry of the Environment, real concerns and concrete actions that demonstrate the clear intention to fight for the decommissioning of the German Nuclear Central, an obsolete equipment that has long exceeded its useful life time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u40	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u41	Mr Minister, what the NAP expects from an Environment Minister is that it is also an uncomfortable and challenging voice before the other interests, putting above all the defence of our 'common house', of our nature, of our territory. I shall end with the following question: Minister, will the Portuguese Government follow the example of the Japanese Government with regard to Fukushima, which has neglected all the repeated warnings that have been heard over the years?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u42	In reply, Mr. Minister for the Environment, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking you for your contributions. I should like to inform you that I will share the time that the Government has with my colleague Mr Deputy Minister. I begin with a set of reasonably fast and direct responses. With regard to Almaraz, the Portuguese Government has been very attentive, has been concerned, has written to the Spanish Government — of course, the Kingdom of Spain, through the Spanish Government, the responsible and the manager of the nuclear power plant, who has always responded to us in order to rest on what has happened in recent times and the very small incidents, on a scale of gravity from 1 to 7, were classified with zero degree. with regard to the direct question of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the answer is « yes », the reform of green taxation will necessarily have a set of tax benefits for all those who have behaviors that value the broad sense environment, which essentially value the energy efficiency and efficiency of use of any resource. Therefore, the answer is: unequivocally yes. with regard to the question which has been asked about the need for public policies which, in cities, ensure that urban rehabilitation is not only done for activities, that we much esteem, such as tourism, but, above all, for people and the lease market, the answer is in the programme itself which has been presented, with a diverse set of very concrete intervention instruments, those, which, instead of what we have inherited, are destined only to the historical centers of the cities, are clearly extended throughout the territory. The Casa Efficient program is a good example of an extended programme throughout the territory where fraction fraction, on the limit, preferably condominium condominium, building the building, can be an intervention that rehabilitates the built heritage and, in particular, guarantees a reduction in the bill of families with energy. Surely all these programmes renew the importance that the construction sector has as a very important sector to absorb some unemployment of less qualified professionals, and it is indispensable for cities. On the question of water and the three years of preparation of that which they call 'water reform', I would say it was three years—which are compared, in this case, to four months on our part—where, starting from such a misdiagnosis, it could not be possible to succeed in what they have done. And I only give three examples to show how the diagnosis was wrong. First, they confuse the water sector in Portugal with the Waters of Portugal, which is wrong. The Waters of Portugal is a very important company that performs its functions in the country essentially in the field of discharge, but the water sector in Portugal is much more than the Waters of Portugal. They speak in 4, in 5 rates, in 11 rates, but that's not true. In Portugal there are more than 300 water rates. Therefore, the question does not arise between 4 and 11. More: they continue to delude and say that water on the coast is cheaper than inside. It's fake! I don't know why they insist on this. If they had this perception three years ago, they could not have concluded differently. When it comes to the price of water, it is, of course, mentioned what people and businesses pay and on the coast water is more expensive than inside. Bridge! There is no doubt about this. When, in particular, in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, the water tariff sold to the authorities is increased, in your reform, by 40 %, that meant what? That those who paid much more would pay. I don't know how to make a difference between rich municipalities and poor municipalities. I know how to make the difference, as we all know, between rich people and poor people and I have no doubt that where the poorest people live most is in those municipalities which, according to your reform, are at risk of paying more than 40% of the water. In fact, another very clear example that they were looking at the wrong place is when they mention that in Portugal there is 40% of uninvoiced water. You're absolutely right. In some cases there may already be more than 40 % of unpaid water. And where are those 40 % of uninflated water? They are exclusively, or almost exclusively, in the municipal systems for which you have limited themselves to maintaining what existed. So, briefly, next Tuesday, I will have the greatest opportunity and I would like again, in committee, to be able to explain better what they say is still poorly explained, and I will say that our great focus is objectively to gain efficiency in municipal systems, is to add municipal systems so that they have at least 100 000 inhabitants, because otherwise it is not possible to be efficient. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u44	You have the floor, even in the time of the Government, Mr Under-Secretary Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a first note to value the intervention of all parliamentary groups in this debate on the National Reform Programme today focused on the theme Valorization of the territory, and to reflect how politically this difference is worth, for the first time for almost one month, throughout the whole of April, we can here, in the Assembly of the Assembly of the Republic, have the opportunity to discuss those who are the axes of true structural transformation of the country. This debate, in which we do not reduce the definition of our intervention framework for the period from 2016 to 2020 strictly to the debate on its financial dimension, the debate on deficit or debt, makes all the difference in how to address the topic of real structural transformation, which is necessary, and the importance of the mobilization of Portuguese society, of economic actors, for a genuine deepening of cohesion policies, of competitiveness, in a framework of greater equality of opportunity. The second note is to highlight the dimension of the value axis of the territory in this debate. Mrs Berta Cabral and Mr Paula Santos and Mr Renato Sampaio had the opportunity to state, in their interventions, the relevance of territorial cohesion, the relevance of matters relating to regional asymmetries within a framework of a true policy of valuing the territory. I welcome the late and posthumous way in which the PSD has come to this debate, after four years of promoting emigration, after four years of abandonment of the interior, after four years of destruction of the public service network serving the territories. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why it is so decisive at this time, to say, first of all, that the option of looking at territorial valorization points both to the promotion of a smart city strategy, a competitive medium city network, or to the enhancement of our maritime space, which also integrates the dimension of a country that has a strategic bet on the sea, such as that which is our bet on the peninsula façade, in that it is the appreciation of the interior, of the spaces that are closer to the centre of European space and of 6 million potential consumers that are in the neighbouring regions of Spain, on an axis up to 100 km. That is why the interior cannot be land of abandonment. in a strategy to create a network of citizen stores, in a network of public services of proximity, the interior is the priority for the government. in a strategy of job creation, mobilization, instruments of investment attraction, in a strategy of attracting new qualified populations, the value of success cases in the interior is a priority. That is why we advocate coordinated public policies that establish an intervention in which rural development, the commitment to competitiveness in low-density territories, the promotion of quality public services are a factor of equal opportunities and in which the use of digital means is not a abandonment strategy, explaining that everything can be resolved digitally, but rather a strategy that justifies that in what was traditionally called interior competitive structures that serve the whole country, which serve even international markets, can be put in place because the digital world must be a factor of equality and competitiveness. That is why I understand the awkwardness of the PSD, which came to this debate with four years' delay, after four years of destruction of the country and the interior. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Only when Mr President asked that the intervention be completed is that the PSD has come to state the 39 major measures which, out of time and posthumously, wanted to bring to this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u46	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u47	We are going to build a real debate about mobilisation by promoting the interior and competitiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u48	We will move on to the second round of additional clarification requests. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, reforming is not a reversal. Reverting is going back, it's going back to zero point, it's going back to zero stake, it's going back to the past. Well, if there's anything the Portuguese don't want to go back to the past. The Portuguese want to look to the future with hope. That is why, Minister for the Environment, reform cannot mean reversal. The appreciation of the territory is not reversed the reform of the water sector, which we have been able to do in the past, it is not reversed the reform of green taxation, it is not reversed the reform of urban rent. Valuing the territory, Mr Deputy Minister, is not achieved with a regionalisation headed like that which the Government intends to take forward by creating a country at two speeds, giving a voice to those who already have a voice, giving power to those who already have power, to the detriment of those who truly need it. Valuing the territory, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the prices of fuels cannot be deliberately increased. And then they suggest to Portuguese people that they use more public transport, knowing that the interior has or does not have public transport or they are highly deficient! [[Protests from the PCP and the Deputy Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] It is not reformed by reversing, it is not reformed by revoking. But also, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, it does not reform itself with a mere announcement of a set of generic intentions such as those presented by the Government in the National Reform Programme. It is so vague, it is so empty, it is so naked, it is so dismissed that we dare even say that this was a National Reform Programme presented to the country under the mode « beach». In order for the Government to be able to wear the country of reforms it needs, we submit to the Assembly of the Republic in the form of recommendations a set of concrete, objective and cross-cutting measures covering the most varied sectors relating to the enhancement of the territory. Yes, they are a set of measures consistent with our electoral commitments, which have been the subject of popular scrutiny, which have been validated positively and mostly by the Portuguese. It's good not to forget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u50	That's not it anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u51	Mr Renato Sampaio, these are measures specially targeted for the new post-Adjustment Programme context, are measures that corporate a second generation of reforms. Mr Renato Sampaio and Mr Under-Secretary-General, are measures that incorporate a second generation of reforms, which are only possible to achieve by virtue of the progress made in a recent past, which have saved the country from bankruptcy where you left it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u53	Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are measures that fall within the priorities defined annually for the European Union, they are measures that respond to the specific recommendations addressed by the European Commission to Portugal and, far more important than that, they are measures that respond to this great design, which is the enhancement of the territory that looks at the needs of the country and the Portuguese, and that is the only thing that really concerns us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u54	Mr Hugo Pires of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the National Reform Plan with regard to the enhancement of the territory. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Government on its initiative and the desire to discuss the future of the country. For a month, this Assembly of the Republic is convened to discuss this National Reform Plan and during the next month, we will realize what proposals the parties with parliamentary seats will make. We already realize that the PSD is presenting 39 proposals today. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira said that this is a National Plan of Reforms in "the beach" mode, but in "the beach" mode was the PSD so far, which has presented zero proposals for the State Budget and today appears with 39 proposals taken from the carton. If we look at the recent past, we realize that the last four years of governance have not been more than years lost from a strategic point of view, preferring the PSD and CDS-PP government a style of navigation governance in view, to push the problems under the carpet, not to go to the bottom of the issues and not to solve the lives of the Portuguese. That is why the document we are discussing today is so important, because we are talking about the future. And the future must pass by valuing our territory as the only strategic asset in which we have full availability, not depending on third parties for its valuation. We reject a development strategy with a rising coastline and an interior that runs by drag. That is why we need to have a new look at the territory. A new look is needed that enhances the Atlantic front, which represents a unique opportunity for Portugal to take a leading role in the economy and blue growth. We need a new look at our peninsula façade, rejecting the peripheral, formed and immobilist conception of the interior, but we also need a new look at cities, which play a decisive role as drivers of territorial competitiveness, innovation and economic and social progress. I highlight the themes of sustainable mobility, energy efficiency and urban rehabilitation. Today, and after many years of occupation of the little thought territory, it came to the conclusion, and well, that it was unsustainable to continue to build on the periphery by betting on urban rehabilitation. The path must necessarily be this: to rehabilitate the building, the heritage and the public space to improve the postcards of our cities and these territories are increasingly competitive. Alongside this strategic design, there is also the need to give a new impetus to a strategic sector, that of construction, which represents about 13 % of national employment and which has led to a very large machadada in the last four years, in which more than 150 000 jobs have been destroyed. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, our territory is a strategic asset of the greatest importance for the development of the country. Taking advantage of its potential by promoting a balanced, harmonious, environmentally sustainable economic development through a rational use of our endogenous resources and respecting future generations is the right path for a time that presents a new vision, for a time that presents a new ambition and for a time that represents a real transformation to Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u56	You have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are fully aware that the limitations of the public investment capacity that the country has clearly conditioned the extent of the National Reform Programme, that the history of the problems of planning the territory of our country, aggravated in recent years by austerity policies, would require. Despite these limitations, which are evident, governments are moving forward with important goals: reducing primary energy consumption, the greatest weight for the economy of the sea, also the greatest weight for the circular economy. They are important targets for the decarbonisation of the economy and the sustainable use of our resources. It took this time to refer to our concern about hydrocarbon exploration operations, particularly in the Algarve. We believe that investment in rail, one of the other goals of this Programme, rather than motorization and road concreteization, is indeed an essential objective. Urban rehabilitation, essential for urban quality of life, for job creation, for the encouragement of the lease market, instead of the senseless growth of urban perimeters with new urbanizations. For territorial cohesion and for the enhancement of the territory, we believe that a network of greater accessibility of public services is essential. It must be said that citizens do not access, particularly in the territories of the interior, to health, to justice, to education at the shops of the citizen. It's not enough. It is essential that it be effectively reverted, that the policy of the last government be reversed in relation to the desertification of the interior and the deprotection of citizens in the country. Revert isn't going back to zero stake, it's amending what was wrong,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u59	...and we have to take that reversal without any tibia. By the way, I would also like to say that we have not been able to decouple any measures in the PSD programme with regard to the regionalisation of the country. It is that the PSD does not want democratically legitimized decentralization measures in the metropolitan areas, nor at any point in the country. If not, we would be waiting for the PSD proposal for the referendum on regionalization of our country! We are waiting for this proposal, Mr President. Members of the PSD, and it is not worth us entering into demagogic measures on this matter. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] I would also like to say — as we are talking about revisions — that it is essential to reverse the concept of 'the interior territories' as a kind of territory through the communication and transport infrastructures, and nothing more.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u60	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u61	I shall conclude, Mr President. We need to value the territories, particularly those of the interior, in order to obtain this infrastructure network from a guiding criterion, which are the urban systems of the coast and the interior, the best way of articulating between urban centers and rural territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u63	Finally, Mr President, I would like to welcome and acknowledge the beginning of the revision of the National Territorial Planning Policy Programme, which is a major draft debate on our future and on the planning of the territory in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u64	I now give the floor to Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we put ourselves in the position of a citizen of the interior who is listening to this debate—which began with a huge expectation that we would be talking about its territory and, therefore, we want to realize that policies and measures in concrete will be taken into its territory—the truth is that at this time it must already be willing to flee its territory, since the debate we are witnessing here is a void of proposals that is only attenuated with an even greater void called the National Plan of Reforms, a document that, if it was blank, only with the title, was exactly the same thing as the statements on the appreciation of the territory that is contained in the Plan. I would say to this inner citizen: 'Well, I will have at least one public transport network...' — to such sustainable mobility — '... and I will have the same benefit as the large metropolitan areas or the large urban centres'. Then you're wrong! I would have that with the previous government! [[PCP laughter.]] What the Socialist Party did in six years, which was to increase the indebtedness of public transport companies by 50 % and to call into question not only real public transport as the sustainability of companies, was reversed. I would say: 'Well, it has been reverted to a more sustainable, more economical model, which will transform the whole country with access to public transport'. The reality is that you have already left the window out of 200 million savings only in administrations, which was the expected saving, but according to news — in such incoherence of the Port Metro, which is to sub-concession, which is to be public, but it is not, after all, because you will have in the same private management, you are only delaying the competition — you have already spent 49 million euros. That is, in four months you spent money without seeing anything rational, nothing efficient. I could even say that there is something else here and that the Block, the PCP and the Greens Ecological Party won at least more social pass, sub17, sub18, sub20, sub30, and out there. Don't! Mr. Minister said there's no money for that. But there was money to re-transport bottle to a very restricted set of employees from some companies!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u66	That's right! [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u67	What a pity I have to see the Block, which before I said it was necessary to do the whole fight and now, to be in shape, it's necessary to run from the whole fight! What a pity I have to see that the Greens Ecological Party and the Communist Party have forgotten such social passes and that, this time, they are doing so well done, so nice, forgetting the people who actually live in a totally unequal territory! Let us move on to what is essential for the interior: creating employment, protecting endogenous products, valuing their heritage, valuing their territory. That is to say, to pay back what has already been done, and well done, by some authorities. I can talk about micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u68	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u69	I will finish, Mr. President. I'm telling you, the ladies. Ministers had come to say that there would be a change for better than Portugal 2020, that there would be an increase in incentives for innovation and development, that there would be a specific assessment for small and medium-sized enterprises, that there would be a separate and faster evaluation, that there would be a real fight against bureaucracy for those companies that are inside and are going to take jobs, that are creating economies and that are far away from decision-making centres. This was provided for in the former strategic partnership agreement with the European Union and the Portugal 2020 programme, but there were no questions from the government on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u70	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u71	I shall finish, Mr President, by asking the interior entrepreneurs to be told that they will indeed have a partner and some help from the Government to strengthen the financing, to strengthen their own capital, to create the economy. Tell them something about it, under the penalty of the debate, to be completely useless. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u72	I now give the floor to Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the point of departure which has to be unmistakable in this discussion is that it is urgent to reverse these policies of abandonment to which the country has been voted and, at the same time, these policies of degradation in urban and metropolitan territories to which the previous government has led us and has emphasized in an unprecedented way. This central issue is discussed throughout the debate on the exploitation of the territory, particularly in matters of public services and, from the outset, mobility. It is that if, on the one hand, the daily situation, in vast regions of the country, is that there is simply no transport with the closures of railway lines, the disappearance of road services and even taxis, which has so often occurred within the country, and with a legal regime on public transport, which the previous government wanted to approve by imposing that the autrkeys were primarily handed over to their fate, on the other hand, the daily routine of transport companies in the metropolitan areas is a tremendous difficulty in operation and management, which is, in particular, the result of the infamous Decree-Law No 133/2013, approved by the previous Government, and which has brought unacceptable constraints to the functioning of the public sector companies and a brutal attack on their workers. In fact, even today, these workers and their organisations have been facing the Assembly of the Republic and have submitted to this House a petition with more than 5000 signatures to demand a concrete response from the political power to end this regime which causes so many problems at this level, to the people and territories concerned, in terms of mobility. That is why there are priorities that we must not fail to highlight in this matter, Mr President. Ministers. That is: to return to the populations the transports that have been taken away from them over the years; to reactivate, modernize, develop the rail network; to ensure mobility and collective transport as effective public service, not leaving local power abandoned to their fate in this matter, as did the previous government; to end these exorbitant increases in transport prices, which the previous government imposed on the populations and, from then on, to put back the passes for students, as were 4 /NP 18 and sub23 for all students in general and that the previous government withdrew students in an absolutely unacceptable way; to meet the need to end the constraints resulting from Decree-Law No 133/2013 in companies in this sector. at the level of green taxation, whose review is indicated in the presentation of the Program, it is also essential to break up with the options of the PSD and the CDS-PP. We cannot turn environmental taxation into a mechanism that penalises the majority of the population, those who have less and less can and do not have alternatives to benefit those who, above all, have the most investment capacity and who can take advantage of some of these measures. We left these elements of contribution to the debate, giving a voice to the people and to those who, yesterday morning, were with us in the Cachão, saying: « Transmit there, in the Assembly. Let them hear our voice! Do not keep on seeking. ” It ends with this abandonment that the people have been voted on and penalized by these right-wing policies, in particular those of the previous government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u74	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Parliamentary Group'The Greens' has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by saying to Mr Hélder Amaral that the parliamentary experience has already told me that when people start sending arguments or inventing things that do not correspond to the truth in order to grip them with what they would like to happen, the debate goes wrong. The honourable Member came here to point his finger at The Greens and said: "Oh, when we were in government, they were talking about the social pass and now they have never remembered the social pass again." Do not shake your head by saying yes, Mr, because you are literally lying! He knows, because he accompanied the work of the State Budget, that the Greens presented a very concrete proposal to resume the 4 /NP 18 and sub23 steps. And now, in order to boost your memory, I would like to say to the honourable Member that your bench has not voted in favour of this proposal from the Greens. You see, Mr. Deputies? So we need to take some care and some seriousness in the debate we do. The Greens believe that taking this step back is indeed a fundamental issue. in this case, we must not distinguish between the rich and the poor. Social policies are decisive, but, Mr President, it is not in the social pass that they are made, but through taxes, fair finances, where it makes people contribute according to their ability to contribute. What The Greens have said is this: to get used to the new generation of young people to the use of public transport, giving them an incentive through a cheaper social pass and giving them a good offer of transport, it is essential that this generation should not say: "Oh, I have to change my mobility for individual transport within a few years. Not at all! If this generation has a good offer of collective transport and an incentive to use it, it will not even want to make this change of mobility because it corresponds to its needs. And the Greens will insist, yes, on the start of the student pass. We will insist on this, because we consider it to be fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u77	Finally, Mr President, I would like to say the following: it is not possible to speak in valuing the territory without talking about an increase in our activity for the conservation of nature and biodiversity. When we talk about biodiversity, in its genetic aspect, ecosystems, species, we talk about security of the territory, we talk about a value of regulation of fills, pollution, climate regulation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u78	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u79	I'm done, Mr. President. This is to stop talking about all the value that biodiversity has to provide us with food, water, raw material. Defending biodiversity is defending the security of our territory and we need serious and more active policies for the conservation of nature and biodiversity. This debate must be held when we talk about valuing the territory. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u80	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u81	Mr. President, Deputy Minister, valuing the territory requires more than measures designed essentially for large cities. Territorial cohesion goes beyond measures for the production of regional endogenous products and the development of agriculture. In Portugal, there is a fire industry that has in the helicopter business a large state money scrapper : EUR 348 million was the amount shifted over the last 10 years to ensure this practice, 17 times more than is invested annually in fire prevention. These EUR 348 million, Minister, are the equivalent of what firefighter associations receive from the State in 13 years. As in the National Health Service, more financial resources are invested in remedial and palliative strategies, to the detriment of a strong and consistent bet on prevention. Who is interested in this business, who does not value the territory and populations? Minister: what measures are planned in the National Reform Plan to reverse practices with a clear commitment to fire prevention? Mr Minister, to conclude, I ask: when will the firefighters of our country, who are throughout the territory and promote territorial cohesion, be truly recognized, valued and supported and not only called to extinguish fires? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u82	In reply, Mr. Under-Secretary-General Eduardo Cabrito has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to highlight what is perfectly innovative and a sign of a new time: we are having this debate! The first difference that can never be forgotten is that you are here. Members who shared with me for four years the strange situation that was not discussed, there was not even a National Reform Programme and that the Stability Programme was presented at the last hour, but first in Brussels and then in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The debate we have had throughout this month, since, at the end of March, Mr Prime Minister presented here the general framework of the National Reform Programme, is a deep debate in which the six axes that form part of this National Programme are widely discussed here so that this debate ends on the next day 27, after collecting the contributions of all banks, with the approval of either the Stability Programme, or a final version of the National Reform Programme. That is why I also wanted to call the opposition benches for a debate on the future. It is this debate about the future that is needed here. It's not worth it, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue at the level of recurrent adult education. In fact, 107 is less than 123 — these basic arithmetic classes! It is not worth insisting on the PSD, because this is a basic reality and that is why, having been this option of the Portuguese, today are in opposition. [[PSD protests.]] The National Reform Programme values the whole territory, but the opposition benches did not hear any reference to autonomous regions. There too, in Madeira and the Azores, there is a national territory that integrates our priority of territorial valorization. of the opposition benches, I have not heard any reference to the potential of the sea economy. I am also surprised when I see Mr Hélder Amaral here saying that what we should do is simplify what was complicated by the previous government and reform Portugal 2020. In this respect, however, what we have found was European funds for use and the government's priority over 100 days has been to bring more than EUR 100 million to businesses. But the priority was also to open competitions in relation to local investment priorities, with close coordination with local authorities, in the field of education, for public schools;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u84	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u85	... in the field of health, for primary health care;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u86	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u87	...in the domain of heritage, for its recovery.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u88	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u89	But it is also surprising that resources are being mobilized here. Even in this matter, in four months, it was already possible in the Council of Ministers — that we had the honour of having been chaired by the former President of the Republic Professor Aníbal Cavaco Silva — to see the Blue Fund approved, which gave a new dimension to the priority of the sea economy. When we talk about simplification here, it is amazing that they have not noticed that the single port invoice is already working, after four years in which the Simple spirit has been totally abandoned. It is astonishing that the importance of rural development has not been invoked here, the partnerships either in a cross-border context of promoting rural space, the bet on a national regadio plan, which is the enhancement of a rural development strategy against abandonment, against forced emigration, against the despair of young people, against the fatalist vision of the interior. That is why the enhancement of the territorial area, both the maritime area and the island area, either the creation of competitiveness networks in the medium cities, or the enhancement of cross-border cooperation, where, in the Spanish neighbourhoods, there are 6 million partners, are a priority, a vision that looks at the future, which mobilizes economic actors, which creates an effective spirit of cooperation with companies, of partnership with local authorities, of valorising universities and politicians as factors of development of the interior and not of destruction of thought and of betting in research and development. That is why this National Reform Programme, which is being discussed here in six debates and which will culminate in the debate on 27, is that debate that never existed here and that has never been able to promote. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] That is why this absence proves your desertion both at the service of the Portuguese and the affirmation of priorities for the future of those who are clinging to the failure of your past. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u90	Since the government still has time, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Mr. João Pedro Matos Fernandes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I find it very strange when I hear the Members of the PSD and the CDS justify the choices they have taken — certainly legitimate, and also questionable, of course — in the light of the value of the territory. I think, in fact, it's very strange that this can be done. How can they, in the light of the appreciation of urban mobility, justify that which was the option by the sub-concessions of collective transport undertakings, when what happened in the four years prior to sub-concession was the loss in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto of 100 million passengers and the reduction by more than 20 % of the offer and, in the competition which is launched, a shot in the National Plan for Climate Change itself, which is also the responsibility of VV. Ex. — and that for the positive — when, among other things, are you obliged to have buses that can be bought to be gas oil and can be in second hand? It is therefore unimaginable that, in the light of the value of the territory, in the light of what is the sustainability of cities, you can justify the choices you have made. It doesn't make any sense! With regard to the concrete proposals which are in the National Reform Programme, one of them of great importance — which I did not talk about in the presentation, and which was necessarily summarized — that of flexible transport, which will be on the ground even before the end of summer, is precisely designed to ensure, at low costs, the possibility of, particularly in areas with low population density, of having a collective transport offer from what is already the existing taxi network and transport companies in those territories. But there is no doubt that both this program and the program we present are very concrete programs in what, more than its objectives, are the projects that integrate it. When we talk about the organisation of the public, public and road transport sector, we naturally talk about the decentralization and approximation of those closest to the territory, in their management, and assume that in two years we will buy 500 new buses powered by gas or electricity. When we talk about the need to involve taxis in what is the new urban mobility standard, we make it clear that what we want is that 1000 of these taxis, of course without direct support from the state but through the Juncker plan, can come to be electric taxis. When we talk about the expansion of the metro network of Lisbon and Porto — and still today we were pleased to participate with Mr. Prime Minister in the opening of a new metro station in Lisbon — we talk about, starting in 2018, in three years, building 9 km of metro line in these two metropolitan areas. And, changing the subject, when we talk about active policies of use, for example, of protected areas, where we also want to bring energy efficiency and urban rehabilitation, we talk about rehabilitating nearly 15 000 m2 of public buildings that are abandoned and abused in the same protected areas. Therefore, it is with great pride that we present ourselves before you in the sense that we have built a very plural programme, there are many subjects that pass through the valuing of Portuguese territory. There is certainly the urban approach to our proposals, because that is where the great environmental issue is being gained at the moment, and we have no doubt that we are all in agreement, which is that of climate change, but at no time is we depreciated any of the areas we have under our care and we believe that this programme, which we are presenting today, is a good summary and a great stimulus to, on the one hand, open up the debate and, on the other hand, have a different policy and a policy in which the territory is an agent and not a homeland where things happen, or not. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u92	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the debate itself has ended, you have the floor for the closing speech, Mr Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the conclusion of the third of six debates in the Assembly of the Republic on the National Reform Programme, today dedicated to the enhancement of the territory, I would like to greet all the banks for their contribution to this debate and affirm what is a serious commitment from the Government, looking to the future : to value this concentration of parliamentary work in a deep work strategy around the six axes around which we structure the National Reform Programme. This is because, in fact, it is the first time that the Assembly of the Republic is called upon to devote a broad space of its parliamentary debate to the collection of contributions and the discussion of the National Reform Programme. This is a strategic policy document which will see, in its financial dimension, the stability plan also deserve a debate here in Parliament on 27 April. Today, as in the other debates, we discuss the policies and reforms that we propose, to value our territory, is the subject that we are debating in depth today, a subject that is a priority for the government. A government that sees the sea as a factor of national identity and the economy of the sea as a bet on the future. It is time for Portugal to take leadership in the blue economy and growth by transforming the huge potential already existing into real growth and employment guided by the principle of sustainability. This is surely a government that does not have the fatalistic view of the interior, such as the previous PSD / CDS government, a peripheral, conformed and immobilist conception of abandonment of the rural world. No, this government promotes a strategic design for our interior, central to the Iberian market, of the use and exploitation of resources and the conditions of the territories, of modernization of the productive fabric and of the rural world, from the outset, promoting a correct and balanced planning of the territory, creating urban-rural similarities and enhancing energies, inter alia, through connections between medium cities and projects supported by scientific institutions and knowledge production. Finally, and not less important, it is necessary to ensure that low-density territories are resettled and re-sustained. The creation of the mission unit for the appreciation of the interior and the fact that the Government has taken stock of its first 100 days of action in Idanha-a-Nova has precisely an objective and is the symbol of a priority given to a national programme for the territorial committee, involving all levels of public authorities, highlighting cooperation with local authorities, essential actors in the enhancement of the interior. That is why the strategy of administrative simplification and the commitment to modernization, decentralization, both regionally, for the democratization of regional coordination committees, both in the enhancement of inter-municipal communities, either by decentralizing new competences for municipalities, in a true contract of trust, or by valuing the fragesias as an element of proximity governance, are essential in this strategy of appreciation of the interior. This is the government that promotes decentralization and connection to the territory, a territory that we want to consist of sustainable and intelligent cities, where the promotion of urban rehabilitation is the priority, promoting the circular economy, which involves the entire value chain and the entire economic cycle. This is the government that promotes territorial cohesion, which promotes strategies that involve both the coast and the sea, both the interior, cities and the real world, enhancing synergies and increasing competitiveness in a sustainable context as a development factor, safeguarding natural values, promoting biodiversity. Only then will an effective territorial cohesion be achieved based on genuine sustainable development. This is a debate that cannot be brought back to the past, it is a debate that has to build on a relationship of trust with the territories, a relationship of trust with the ability to create knowledge, to promote innovation and development and to look at the interior as a space of competitiveness. It is for this debate of the future that we convene all parliamentary groups of the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u94	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we finish this urgent debate, I will give the floor to Mr Hélder Amaral to exercise the rule of law of defence of personal honour. You have the floor, Mr. Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u95	Mr President, in addition to having spent four years listening to the word « theft », the word « mind » was used, « lying ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u96	I didn't say I was a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u97	After « steal», « liar » I can no longer accept, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u98	Are you referring to an intervention by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u99	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u100	« Liar», no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u101	Mr President, sometimes I may not express myself in the best way. I can sometimes be somewhat strict, but even if I do what the Greens Ecological Party knows well, because it has been here for many years now, if there is something I cannot accuse you of, it is to present the same proposals in all legislative sessions or in all legislatures. It would therefore be an error if it did not recognise that it presented the proposal. What I said was that the proposal was not approved for lack of funds to the detriment of another for which there have already been funds, namely free transport for some officials from some sectors of public undertakings. That's what I said. What happens is that this Member and this bench, when they make proposals and are not approved or accepted in the Budget, we vote against. What happens on the bench of the Greens Ecological Party, which submits this proposal, as others will present in the future, perhaps for Your Line, is that when you see that your proposals are rejected, and belongs to the government or supports the government, you have no courage, nor consistency, to vote against the Budget, and you have not voted. Therefore, if there is inconsistencies on my part; if there is a lack of rigour on my part... Now, « liar», surely, Mrs Deputies, with all sympathy, knows that I am not, and knows that I do not use language that is not correct or that is not of parliamentary pleasure. So you'll never accuse me of that. It's just, Mr. President. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u102	In order to explain, if you wish, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, which is available for this purpose for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u103	Mr President, I think I will be faster, but thank you. Mr. Hélder Amaral, we have known each other for a long time, and we already have enough parliamentary experience to know that there are certain things that are not said in the Assembly of the Republic. You have never heard me say or call 'a liar' or 'a liar' to a Member or a Member, because that would be about a personal charge, and we are here to discuss politics. Therefore, to discuss politics before the statement of a certain Member, I think that I have the legitimacy to say that it does not correspond to truth or that it is an untrueness, which is exactly the synonym of saying that that is a lie. This is not offensive, Mr. Deputies. If I had called it a liar, what I didn't do, I think it would be an offense. Now, to have said it was a lie, I think it is perfectly reasonable in parliamentary language. What I realized is that the honourable Member has said, but it is in the Ata, is that the Greens, like other parties, have forgotten, they have never spoken again about the social pass. And what I have tried to prove is that this is not true, so we put forward a proposal in the budget of the State. But of course, I did not want to offend anyone, we are obviously only in a political debate, and the political debate is also held with claws. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u104	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's close this point of our agenda, with claws,... [[Laughing.]] ... moving to the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 211 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — by maintaining the management of the hospitals of Anadia, Serpa and Fafe by their respective Mercy ( PSD ), 239 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government Public Management of José Luciano de Castro Hospital, Anadia, ( BE ), 240 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government public management of the hospital in Fafe ( BE ) and 241 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government public management of the Serpa hospital ( BE ) and generally of the projects of lein. 81 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Reversion of José Luciano de Castro Hospital, Anadia, to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ), 82 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Reversion of the Hospital of São José de Fafe, in Fafe, to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ) and 84 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Reversion of the Hospital de São Paulo, in Serpa, to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ). To present draft resolution No 211/ XIII ( 1. ( a ), Mrs Laura Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u105	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by quoting a person who is very close to the Socialist Party: « The Mercy performs a work of complementarity and cooperation. I want to leave here the recognition of the Mercy for the action they have developed over the years with Health." Mrs. Members, this phrase is not today, this sentence was said five years ago by then Minister of Health Ana Jorge, in March 2011 when the last government of the Socialist Party signed a set of cooperation agreements between the State and the Mercy. The PSD Parliamentary Group submitted a draft resolution recommending to the Government that it maintain the hospitals of Anadia, Serpa and Fafe under the management of their Mercy. Mrs. Members, the purpose is exactly the same as five years ago: to design the health system as a diverse whole, but only concerned about the well-being of the citizens. The PSD, Mrs. Members, consider that the return of hospitals to the Mercy allows the obtaining of important health gains to the populations and the cooperation agreements of the hospitals of Anadia, Serpa and Fafe only prove this. Otherwise we'll see, ladies and gentlemen. Members, comparing the care activity of hospitals between 2014 and 2015, that is, comparing with the first year under the management of local Mercy, what do we verify? Regarding Fafe hospital, for example, we found that medical appointments ranged from 4700 to 7700 and that the surgeries in the same period ranged from 1080 to 1550. Now, regarding José Luciano de Castro Hospital, Anadia, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we see that the results are even more expressive. Otherwise we saw: the consultations in 2014 were 10 800 and in 2015 they increased to 22 500. What about the surgeries? The results are truly overwhelming: if in 2014 Anadia had less than 500 surgeries in 2015, it went to nearly 1700 surgeries. This, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are not just numbers, they are thousands of people who have received medical and surgical health care, thus seeing their right to protection in concrete health, even above, with less waiting time. But does this matter to the left-wing parties? Oh, my God! Looks like no, sirs. Members, because, if they were interested, they would have been careful to inform themselves about the real improvement of the responses before presenting initiatives, questioning people's right to health. We therefore see only the proposals of the PCP and the Left Block sum up, unfortunately, to one word: prejudice! Pure prejudice! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u106	Prejudice is what PSD has!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u107	I shall finish, Mr President, by voting for the Socialist Party and its Government to be able to put the interests of the Portuguese above the ideological, radical agenda of the PCP and the Left Block, because, Mr. Members, the patients do not deserve to be instrumentalized in the taste of occasional political arrangements. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u108	To intervene on lein.o 81 / XIII projects ( 1. ( a ), 82 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and 84 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), presented by the CFP, has the floor of Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have just heard Mrs PSD talk about the benefits of the transfer of hospitals to the Mercy, but the Member cannot be more mistaken because we still receive information about what Mrs Faffe has just said about the benefits of the Fafe hospital. And according to this information, the population that is now served has to make even more distances to carry out complementary diagnostic examinations for the hospitalization of the medicine. Moreover, it says that the alleged emergency services are operating without complying with what is stipulated in the legislation, that is, without laboratory for dry chemistry, without an emergency room. More: says there is a limitation in the administration of medication to patients. These are indeed the benefits that these users have had. Mrs. Member, what the PSD and the CDS-PP did was not to prejudge the public interest, nor the interest of these patients, nor even of their professionals, because 20 professionals from the Fafe hospital did not even pass into mercy. With regard to the Serpa hospital, there were workers to whom mercy should have paid extraordinary hours, something which the government has already assumed is the responsibility of mercy to pay, and is not paying. Mercy is not giving these rights to workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u110	It's a shame! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u111	This is the interest that the PSD and CDS have defended with the return to Mercy. But, Mr. President and Mr. Members, what the PSD does today, with the presentation of these three initiatives, is to set up a measure that only harms users, professionals and the National Health Service. It is clear to strengthen and restore the public response in these three hospitals that the CFP presents these measures. Mrs Deputy did not even read the projects we presented, because they are not limited, solely and exclusively, to the reversal. What our projects also provide is the strengthening of valences and responses and the safeguarding of workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u112	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u113	This is what we have presented here, that is why we have worked, that is what strengthens the National Health Service and the public response and not those that were the political and ideological options that the PSD and the CDS-PP made regarding the National Health Service, which was gradually emptying, weakening, gradually the public response to then hand it over to the private. Yes, Mrs Deputy, it is a delivery, it is a privatization, regardless of the nature of the companies and entities that received them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u114	To intervene on draft resolutions 239 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 240 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 241 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), submitted by BE, has the floor of Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Health Service is a fundamental milestone in Portuguese democracy and is a fundamental axis for the construction of a more just society. We do not exaggerate if we say that in Portugal there is a pre-National Health Service and a Paíspós National Health Service. Pre National Health Service: a perfectly insufficient care coverage; very weak health indicators; enormous infant mortality. It was the country of tuberculosis and other very serious diseases. in the post-National Health Service, all health indicators have improved dramatically. Therefore, there is no reason to go back, there is no reason to return to the country pre-National Health Service, even though this is what the PSD has tried, in the last four years in the government, when it has invested in the National Health Service and when it has tried to pass numerous hospitals for private people, especially for the Mercy. But the project that the PSD presents here today remains curious, because it is, despite everything, a much more feared project, of « hot sandwiches», almost saying: « Please do not question the agreements that were made with these Mercy! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The PSD, which had every certainty that getting the state from the administration of hospitals, from the provision of health care, was the way, now says: "Well, the government has asked for an evaluation of these hospitals, but, careful, it is necessary to subject, contemporize, put this in perspective! You need to keep in mind that it's only been a year. Watch out! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I think the PSD is no longer so sure of the advantages of privatization of the National Health Service, is it? Oh, my God! He's even afraid of evaluation! But you're right not to be right about the advantages. You're absolutely right, you know why? Because there are no advantages. Look at the process that was—and still well— interrupted in the Hospitals of São João da Madeira and Santo Tirso. It was cancelled because the public interest was not guarded and because the passage to these hospitals imposed a loss of valence and reduction of staff. There are no advantages! There's only ideological prejudice against public service! It is an ideological plan of the right against the social sector of the State. That's all you're getting, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I would like to take advantage of the debate to answer three questions: the Fafe hospital went to Mercy, a continuous act was fired more than a dozen professionals. Is this the advantage? Oh, my God! Is that how they save money in the National Health Service? Oh, my God! Redundancies? Oh, my God! Serpa Hospital: there was a study that said that the Serpa hospital had under-utilized capacity and that it was necessary to invest in order to fight the waiting lists. The PSD/CDS-PP government did that? No, you didn't! Why didn't they? Oh, my God! Why didn't you invest in the Serpa hospital? Oh, my God! For a policy of 'the worse, the better'! To justify delivery to privates? Oh, my God! Say, Mrs. Deputy, if it's because of that. Finally, we went to the hospital in Anadia, Mrs. Deputy. Today, if you go to the Anadia hospital website, you will find price information on the first page. Enter this item and see that prices are a series of private consultations that are operating within Anadia hospital. Well, Anadia’s hospital went to Mercy and, after a month, it was already running a private health business. There inside Anadia's hospital! [[PSD protests.]] Is that why the hospital went to mercy? Oh, my God! Was it to encourage the private health business? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] Don't you think this is a conflict of interest? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PSD Member Laura Monteiro Magalhães.]] You don't think this is an issue...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u116	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u117	... the provision of health care to the users of the National Health Service? Oh, my God! Say, was it to do the business that happened to the Mercy? Oh, my God! For that, Mrs. Member, the PSD cannot count on the Left Block. We are here to defend the interest of the users and not the interest of the private. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u118	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u119	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u120	Mr President, the Member of the Left Block accused the former Government and the former majority of the PSD/CDS that supported it, in connection with this mercy process, to make a negotiation. I wanted Mr. Deputy, as the holder of a sovereignty body, to detail or complain to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Otherwise, you're being intellectually dishonest and, more than that, you're committing an injury crime, which I hope is...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u121	Mr. Member I apologize, but you are not making an inquiry to the Bureau,... [[He is, he is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u122	He's not. The honourable Member is making an intervention on the content of the debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u123	I'm not, no! [[He's not, no!]] [[He's not, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u124	... as far as all legitimacy is concerned, but as far as the work is concerned, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u125	Don't you? Oh, So, Mr President, do you confirm that the Bureau's position on accusing other Members, through a political decision, of being negotiating is admissible? Is that your interpretation, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u126	No, sir, that's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u127	So, details, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u128	If you understand that the expressions used have hurt your bench,... Mr. João Piinho de Almeida ( CDS-PP ). - No, that's not it! They hurt the Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u129	... you know you have a regiment figure so you can exercise the right of defense. It is not the case that an appeal to the Bureau does not imply making an indirect inquiry to the honourable Member who has just intervened, as you know.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u130	Excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u131	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u132	Mr President, they have not, at all, hurt my bench, I think they have hurt the role of a Member. They have hurt the Assembly and this, with due respect, should be yours to defend. That is why I made an appeal to the Bureau. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u133	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Trying to resume some serenity... [[Serenity?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u135	... and confer dignity on this debate, I would like to say that the subject under discussion today, although with counter-sensual proposals, is of the greatest relevance to us. For this reason, we wanted to start with where it is due, for a tribute and for the recognition for all the work done by the Portuguese Mercy and other social sector institutions, not only in the field of health but for all that they have done by the Portuguese, and we understand that this reference should indeed be made here, because Portugal is deeply indebted to them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u136	Having said this, we should frame this discussion and remember that the negotiating process we are talking about today, between the State and the Union of Portuguese Mercy, aims at the return of several health units—I repeat, the return of several health units—
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u137	They had been stolen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u138	... that, before the state intervention, in 1974, belonged to the Mercy, in a heritage that was built over the centuries. Therefore, we have made it clear that in this process of return there have been and remain values for us central and unequivocal and that they relate to a model of health care with the sharing of responsibilities between the National Health Service and the social and private sector, with a complementary provision based on care of proximity to the citizens, in greater accessibility to them and in efficiency gains. This is, in fact, well enshrined in the Basics of Health Act, the Basics of Social Economy Act and our Constitution. It is worth noting that we are not moved by any ideological prejudice and, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no good and bad prejudices, there are prejudices. I repeat: to us, we do not move any ideological prejudice and we have as a clear priority the provision of the closest and best health care to the citizen, regardless of the sector that serves them. We recall that, however, a working group was formed that studied this problem of the return of the services of the Mercy and that had as corollary the publication of Decree-Law No 138/2013, with the consequent definition of service portfolios and effective contractualization. I don't think this has been a process around the law or with dark details, it's clear what was achieved. And therefore, in this agreement, drawn up from this decree, the State maintains, and maintains, the role of supervisor and regulator and there is an obligation that the contracts established involve a reduction of at least 25 % of the overall expenditure for the National Health Service. These assumptions were clear and clear gains in terms of efficiency and efficiency, which led to a return process that started about a year ago. So I abstain here from detailing efficiency gains for the three hospitals...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u139	You've wasted your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u140	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, I just want to remind you that, in the case of the three units concerned today, the reduction of charges would be for the Ministry of Health in the order of €4 000 000. I insist that this is good management of public money. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u141	Having said this and to conclude by thanking you for your understanding, Mr President, what we really wanted to make clear here is that we would like to see the concern for the best health care for the citizens and not a impulse for a reversal of good reforms in this process. Good reforms cannot be reversed. We are for transparency, for the best and most effective health care, in compliance with the laws I have already referred to here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u142	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u143	I'll finish. Therefore, we understand that the management of the hospitals of Anadia, Serpa and Fafe should be maintained with their respective Mercy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u144	For an intervention, Mrs Marisabel Moutela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are again discussing in this plenary the question of hospital management by the Mercy, concerning draft resolutions submitted by the PSD Parliamentary Groups, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block. I begin by referring to the draft resolution of the PSD, to say that it initiates its foundation with a call for attention to constitutional principles and standards, called attention that during the debate was extensible to the CDS-PP. In this respect it is important to say from now on that the Socialist Party does not receive any calls for attention to constitutional principles and standards. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, we note this concern that has now been demonstrated, so much more than during the four years of governance of the PSD and CDS-PP noted that we effectively had a Constitution, so many were the unconstitutional standards that they produced and here they approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u146	Well remembered! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u147	We know that the Constitution orders universal, general and trendly free access to health. More: For us, the National Health Service is a social imperative and is part of our ideological matrix,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u148	... and the government has already demonstrated it when it reverted measures, in particular with regard to moderate rates, implementing the exemption and its reduction and sharing in the transport of chronic and insufficiency patients. We do not have any prejudices about the social sector, and we have already demonstrated it with regard to the creation of the continuing care network, the management of which is given to a large number of entities such as Mercy. But we have always been very clear: the participation of the social sector in the provision of health care will always be complementary. And this participation will always be evaluated objectively, participatoryly, transparently and casuisticly. We've always been very clear. The maintenance or reversal of this type of management will be subject to three conditions: the guarantee that the contractualization will reduce the cut in expenditure by 25 %; the involvement and coordination with local populations and authorities; and the safeguarding of the interests of employees and employees.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u149	You've wasted your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u150	We will look forward to the Joint Committee's conclusions so that we can decide whether or not to reverse the situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u151	For a second speech, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We heard from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group that what the previous government did was to return buildings belonging to the Mercy. The CDS-PP has forgotten, omitted, to say that throughout all these years the National Health Service — the State — paid rents to these same Mercyes. More, sirs. Members: the Government, the State and the National Health Service have made extensive investments in these same facilities and equipment and have now returned to waste and tray to mercy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u153	It was 4 million air! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u154	That is why, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to say more. Here we have spoken about the benefactories that have been done. I would like to read what was stated at the Luciano de Castro Hospital, in Anadia : between 1992 and 2012 this hospital benefited from a very significant set of works of benefit and remodeling that covered different services and valences. And now those who are benefiting from them are not, in fact, the National Health Service, but the private ones.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u155	You've wasted your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u156	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that in fact, what the PSD and the CDS-PP did in the previous government with that measure, with that decree law it was to privatize...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u157	O Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u158	... the National Health Service, was to reduce the public response, was to address the rights of users and professionals of those hospitals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u159	Mrs. Members, the assessment of draft resolutions Nos 211, 239, 240 and 241 / XIII ( 1 ) is concluded. ( a ) and generally of the projects of lein. 81, 82 and 84 / XIII ( 1. ( a). Turning now to the next point in our agenda, we have to discuss draft resolutions 201 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends strengthening measures to combat diabetes ( PS ), 197 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide continuous insulin infusion therapy ( SPCI ) for all children up to 10 years of age ( BE ), whose title was replaced by the authors, 232 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthening public responses in the area of diabetes ( PCP ) and 238 / XIII ( 1. (a) — Recommends that the Government implement measures to prevent and combat diabetes and intermediate hyperglycaemia. To present draft resolution No 201 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) the PS has the floor of Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, four draft resolutions are being discussed today, which are converging and even complementary, with a view to strengthening measures to combat diabetes. Diabetes, as you know, is a disease that massively affects Humanity, and it is expected that in a little more than a decade it will reach 600 million people in the world. But, if worldwide, forecast is overwhelming, we are not at national level to rest either. The data presented by the latest report of the 2015 National Diabetes Observatory reveal a prevalence of diabetes for the population between 20 and 79 years of 13, 1%, i.e. more than 1 million people. But the problem is that this more than 1 million people are not diagnosed; 43% of these people are not diagnosed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there is any doubt as to the relevance of these projects, these doubts fall before this data. Doubts give rise to a certainty: the affirmation of the diabetes problem as a national priority intervention programme. It is recognized that intervention should start with primary prevention, aiming to delay the disease, and only after secondary prevention, i.e. treatment. Early diagnosis is intended to prevent the progression of the disease and the late complications that weigh so much on the health of Portuguese and also on the funding of the National Health Service. The Government Programme established a new ambition for public health, from then on, through national programmes for literacy and self-care, preparing and supporting informal providers in home care. Health literature, understood as the ability to make informed decisions about health in everyday life, is a nuclear reference to this programme, insofar as it provides essential capabilities for self-care, because, like the honourable Members. You know, diabetics are self-medicating. last April 7 we celebrated World Health Day in the Assembly of the Republic and there we also converged with the central theme of the agenda of the World Health Organization : diabetes. Unfortunately, the negative effect of austerity was also reflected in the health of Portuguese. There is vast evidence that periods of economic, financial and social conditioning translate into more disease. This is what we want to reverse. And because we think diabetes is a silent epidemic that can and should be combated, we have prepared a draft resolution, with about 10 recommendations, of which we want to emphasize that we welcome the conclusion of the cooperation protocol with the Coffee Industrial and Commercial Association for reducing the amount of sugar in the packages and also the Gulbenkian report, A Future for Health — we all have a role to play. The issue of diabetes deserves, in our view, a welcome for this involvement of civil society and the scientific community. Knowing that the Minister of Health is already at the stage of implementing measures to strengthen the fight against diabetes, it is never too much to remember and recommend again, through this draft resolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u161	To present draft resolution No 197 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, there are about 1 million people between 20 and 79 years of age with diabetes. In addition to these, it is estimated that more than 400 000 people have the disease, although it is not yet diagnosed. That is what many have already called'silent epidemic' and, despite silence, very serious. It is serious because of the high number of people affected by associated diseases, the loss of quality of life that represents and the premature death that causes. Diabetes is the main cause of blindness, renal failure and non-traumatic amputations. In children and young people it can lead to numerous development problems. Diabetes represents the loss of about nine years of life and is the cause of 4,000 deaths per year in Portugal. It is a very serious problem, further compounded by the lack of prevention, the diagnosis, often done late, and the difficulty in controlling the disease, particularly in controlling the peaks of hyper and hypoglycaemia. The Left Block therefore agrees with many of the measures proposed today in this debate, since the promotion of healthier eating habits and lifestyles, as a form of prevention, from the promotion of population screenings, even articulating health centers and pharmacy. Given that diabetes can be asymptomatic for several years, early detection is therefore very important. We also agree with the promotion of literacy in health in a way and as a way to better control the disease. However, we believe that further answers are needed, especially for cases of type 1 diabetes, hence the Left Block presents the legislative initiative we are discussing today. Type I diabetes, being an autoimmune reaction, is often manifested in early ages, with many children and young people with this disease. People with type I diabetes need to give insulin several times a day in order to control glucose levels. It is not enough for these people to have a better diet or exercise regularly, because the control of the disease also has to be done by insulin administration. The insulin continuous profusion system, commonly called insulin pumps, is a very effective treatment for the control of type I diabetes. By regularly monitoring the level of glucose and by continuously releasing insulin, this therapist avoids the existence of peaks of hypo and hyperglycaemia, thus allowing better quality of life and better control of the disease, also avoiding serious co-morbidities and health complications in the future. Insulin pumps should begin to be used at early ages so that the person gets used to it. Thus, children and young people are the preferred target of this innovative therapy. For all this, the Left Block proposes with its legislative initiative the provision of insulin pumps to all children up to the age of 10 and the future extension of this therapy to other age stages. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u163	To present draft resolution No 232 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Strengthening public responses in the area of diabetes of the PCP, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Diabetes is a disease that affects more than one million Portuguese people between the ages of 20 and 79 and has a set of associated complications that affect the quality of life of patients and have high personal, social and national health services costs. A diabetic is a risk patient for the development of other diseases — circulatory, renal, visual, muscle, among others. Because it is a disease of high morbidity, prevention and early diagnosis are fundamental elements. Unfortunately, the national programs for monitoring various diseases and also the diabetes program were victims of the disinvestment in the National Health Service that has been operating in recent years, particularly victims of the shortage of professionals. Evidence of these difficulties is, for example, the diabetic retinopathy screening program, which, from 2013 to 2014, had a global reduction of 17 % in the number of screenings performed. In view of this problem we discussed, today the PCP presents a draft resolution with recommendations based on the principle that, in health, prevention is always the best way to achieve gains for users and better efficiency for the National Health Service. These recommendations cover the levels of primary, secondary and tertiary intervention, by combating risk factors associated with the disease, increasing early diagnoses, moving immediately to treatment after diagnosis and promoting, respectively, the rehabilitation and social reintegration measures of people with diabetes. in the field of prevention, it becomes essential to promote healthy lifestyles and for this are necessary programs developed in conjunction with the Ministries of Health and Education and local authorities, among other vocations to encourage the adoption of healthy food and to participate in activities in school sports and popular sports. With regard to early diagnosis, it is essential to correct the deficiencies in the screening of diabetic retinopathy so that the program reaches as many people as possible, creating the conditions for timely treatment of detected situations. in the course of treatment, it is necessary to strengthen the funds for the participation of the continuous insulin profusion system, known as an insulin pump, in order to reach the largest number of patients, especially children who have medical indication for this. The commitment to disease prevention and health promotion is closely linked to the necessary strengthening of human, technical and financial resources in the field of public health, which must be recognized and valued, particularly in the strengthening of health professionals, in the Directorate-General for Health, but also in the establishment of multidisciplinary teams. Investment in health is essential to ensure the quality of life for citizens and to strengthen the sustainability of the National Health Service and therefore it is necessary to strengthen structures and means so that national programs can be properly implemented, in this case the diabetes-oriented program, fulfilling the constitutional right to health. The PCP does not abdicate from valuing the health and structures dedicated to it and with this project it once again contributes so that this is possible. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u165	Mr André Silva, from the PAN, has the floor to present draft resolution No 238 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Citizens : Following China and India, today we will debate the third most populous country in the world, diabetes. The data are clear: there are currently 371 million diabetes patients in the world and at least 280 million people at high risk of developing. In Portugal, the estimated prevalence of diabetes in the population aged between 20 and 79 years was 13%, i.e. more than one million Portuguese in this age group has diabetes. More: about 40% of the Portuguese population between 20 and 79 years of age has diabetes or intermediate hyperglycaemia, which corresponds to some surprising 3, 1 million individuals. In addition to the suffering caused by this disease and the costs associated with its treatment for itself, diabetes also has a profound impact on the National Health Service. In 2014 diabetes represented an estimated direct cost of EUR 1550 million, an increase of approximately EUR 50 million compared to last year, representing around 1 % of GDP and around 10 % of health expenditure. According to the Directorate-General for Health, through the Manual Guidelines for Healthy Vegetarian Food, published in July 2015, and the recent Manual Vegetarian Food in School Age, published now in April 2016, « populations with high or exclusive consumptions of products of plant origin are less likely to contract chronic diseases such as obesity and diabetes » and « a dietary pattern based on products of plant origin or a vegetarian diet generates as various benefits, namely the reduction of the risk of diabetes ». More than taking a palliative action regarding public health and the management of the National Health Service, it is up to us, as a society, to educate for a new way of being and consuming. The NAP assumes that one of the main contributors to the reversal of this epidemic trend goes through education and awareness-raising for healthy nutrition based on products of plant origin. We therefore recommend to the Government, among other measures, that, under the coordination of the National Programme for Diabetes, promote actions and information campaigns aimed at raising public awareness of the importance of adopting healthier lifestyles, in particular by disseminating good food practices, including through vegetarian food, as a way of preventing and reducing the risk of diabetes. We have the courage to do more, but above all better. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u167	It made the presentation of the projects under discussion, now has the floor of Mrs. Angela Guerra, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The four draft resolutions currently under discussion present a set of recommendations to the Government to strengthen measures for the prevention, control, response and treatment of diabetes. As you all well know, a draft resolution was submitted by the PSD and the CDS, approved unanimously in this House and published in the form of a resolution by the Assembly of the Republic on 5 August 2015. this diploma resulted in a set of more than 10 recommendations and proposals ranging from information actions to the population to the promotion of organizational models that promote integrated management of diabetes in the SNS, including at primary health care level, the ARS (regional health administrations ), ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ) and ULS ( local health units ) ; strengthening of multidisciplinary screenings and consultations ; holding protocols with local administration ; strengthening in educational teaching establishments of education programs, healthy food information actions, promotion of physical activity and approval of legislation that discourages the consumption of foods and poor drinks in nutrients and with high sugar content; banning the marketing of this type of food to minors, including restrictions to their advertising, among other things. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fight against diabetes is everyone's responsibility, in which each person must start by helping himself to have healthier lifestyles. This means that the adoption of healthy eating habits, weight control and regular practice of physical activity are, in fact, aspects that depend on the individual himself and that undoubtedly contribute to the reduction of risk factors of diabetes. We all have this conscience and we know that this is the way forward. But in particular, with regard to the diplomas under discussion today, in addition to our understanding that many of them go in the same direction as this House has already approved about eight months, so we are in agreement with them, there may be a need to safeguard, by making a different recommendation, the draft resolution of BE which proposes the provision of a therapy with a continuous profusion system of insulin for all children and young people up to the age of 14. However, what is not achieved is, in view of the known prevalence rates — 0.13 % up to 14 years old — that the proposal is absolutely discriminatory, and it is imperceptibly not to include the age group of young people 0 to 19 years old, where the prevalence rate is higher — 0.16 %. As far as the diploma presented by the CFP is concerned, and as far as the proposals in particular are concerned, it has already been said about the others, because they are absolutely similar. with regard to the explanation of reasons, which this bench has already used to us, we will only say that any good faith that the recommendations could contemplate is absolutely withdrawn by the sectarian and demagogic approach introduced to it by the PCP bench. It is therefore our understanding that only eight months back on approval by this House of the resolution already announced is the time of the government to regulate and implement the broad recommendations listed there and duly explained, with the certainty of something, Mrs and Mrs. Members: In 2014 there were 150 new cases of diabetes in Portugal each day. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u169	Mrs Teresa Caeiro from the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS generally welcomes the set of intentions of the projects under discussion today. Reiterating a little what Mrs. Angela Guerra has said from the PSD, the truth is that we need to withdraw from these initiatives some sectarianism that we find in the various expositions of motives, but, in fact, this is a subject that can only summon us all of us all the time. In fact, as Mrs Maria Antónia Almeida Santos mentioned here, diabetes was a nuclear theme of the World Health Day evocative ceremony last April 7. I take advantage, on behalf of the CDS, to warmly welcome the tireless work that has been developed by the Association Protecting Diabetics of Portugal, and also the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, which has succeeded in reaching an agreement between the various partisan forces in the direction of a future for health. We are all summoned to this appeal. There are several reasons, and all appropriate, that justify precisely the choice of diabetes in the last commemoration of World Health Day. in fact, diabetes is simultaneously a sign of the triumph of science about the disease and an example of the main challenges society and health policies have to face. It is a sign of the triumph of science because over the last century this disease, with a huge rate of mortality and morbidity, can, as long as properly assisted, be a chronic disease and those suffering from it can have a long life with quality and well-being. As mentioned above, numbers are scary because about 13% of our population, among children, young people, adults and older people, suffers from any form of diabetes. In order to meet these challenges, in an interconnected way, we have access not only to health care and therapy without obstacles but also to adequate prevention and information – as has already been said, literature on health – that enables successful choices on a daily basis. We must achieve an early diagnosis, particularly through specific training actions among health professionals, especially general and family medicine, and adequate monitoring and monitoring of the disease. I am saying again that diabetes is a chronic disease but it does not have to be fatal, provided there is a conjugation of public and private, collective and individual wills, and, to this end, it is decisive an appropriate and permanent articulation, i.e. in the words of the World Health Organization — and this will be a free translation — to increase prevention, to strengthen care and to intensify monitoring. As has already been said here, the various initiatives — removing the sectarian side and the fact that they are repeating what has been unanimously adopted in a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic just eight months ago — therefore, redundancy — complement each other and, in a way, once again draw attention to this serious and often so silent problem. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u171	As there is still time for a second intervention, Mr João Ramos has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just wanted to make a reference to the allusions made by the PSD and the CDS to sectarianism. There were four political parties who presented projects in this Assembly of the Republic and we are here discussing proposals, and there were two who decided to come here to accuse others of sectarianism. So we're talking about sectarianism. We understand that it is necessary to strengthen the National Diabetes Programme at the level of support structures, financial resources and human and material resources. It is important that these programmes be strengthened. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] It is important to say that the programme for the participation of insulin pumps was created and given with money but then there was no change in these funds and therefore there are no financial conditions to share their distribution to those who have medical information to use them. I would like to conclude by saying — and this is also important — that the incidence of diabetes, such as poverty in Portugal, has been increasing. Now, diabetes is a disease associated with both eating habits and lifestyles, and both have a close relationship with what is the financial situation of citizens and families. Therefore, measures that improve the living conditions of Portuguese are also important measures to contribute to combating this disease. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u173	Mrs. Members, we turn to point 4 of today's agenda, together with the assessment of draft resolutions 180 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government vote against renewing the use of carcinogen glyphosate in the EU and the implementation in the country of this prohibition of use ( BE ), 195 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government oppose the renewal of authorisation for the use of glyphosate in the European Union and prohibit its use in Portugal ( PAN ) and 242 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends prohibition on the use of glyphosate ( The Greens ). To present draft resolution No 180 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), by the authorship of the Left Block, I give the floor to Mr Jorge Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block took the initiative to present this recommendation to the Government with a vote against the renewal of the use of the glyphosate carcinogen herbicide in the European Union and the prohibition on the use of this herbicide in the country. Do so at a time of international confrontation on this matter. It is growing aware that the use of glyphosate, having been multiplied by 260 over the past 40 years, is today a problem and a symbol of the consequences of the development of intensive agro-industry, of the use of genetically modified organisms in agriculture and also, from the point of view of urban management, of the consequences of austerity, of fiscal restriction policies, which facilitate and promote facilitation solutions, such as the intensive use of herbicides in the planning of green spaces. In March 2015 the World Health Organization classified glyphosate as a probable cancer. Glyphosate is a poison, with a brutal impact on ecosystems, eliminating plant species, algae, bacteria and affecting birds and mammals, entering the food chain and throughout the environment, contaminating it. Glyphosate residues are detected in beer, in products of intimate hygiene consisting of cotton, human urine and breast milk. The Portuguese Medical Order considers the inaction of successive governments in this area unacceptable, especially since it is the World Health Organization itself that binds glyphosate to the type of lymphoma that grows most in Portugal, with more than 1700 cases each year. The European glyphosate license expires on 30 June. It is known that Italy, the Netherlands, France and Sweden are opposed to the continuation of the licence for the production, marketing and use of glyphosate in Europe because there are, and these countries present, practical alternatives, both for agriculture and for urban spaces. A month ago, the decision to renew the glyphosate licence in the European Union for more than 15 years was postponed, precisely at a meeting of experts from 28 countries where the majority were not meeting to allow it to be renewed. Lobby's in the field! Even today, when we are discussing here, a resolution in the European Parliament has already been voted on restricting the use of glyphosate in urban areas and recognizes that in gardens, parks, green spaces, this product must be removed from use because it is a contamination factor. But unfortunately the Monsanto lobby and the producers of this herbicide is in the field and unfortunately despite the reduction in the extension of the licence for seven years, it has been able to impose that licence as a recommendation to the European Commission. The next summit is on May 18 and 19, and the Left Block has already asked the Government what its position will be at that time which can be decisive in stopping the use of glyphosate and opening up ground to alternatives. Today, the defenders of this herbicide use, as always, the economic argument, to replace knowledge with chemicals, to replace the labour force with poisons. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a re-editation of the arguments of the defenders of the use of DDT in the 1960s: effectiveness and price, always at the service of the DDT, to refuse caution, to postpone change, to block adaptation to concrete, positive practices that prioritize public health and the environment. Half a century later we all bring in the body, still today, the DDT residues with which humanity was contaminated by intensive use and which are transmitted from generation to generation by breast milk. We must learn from the mistakes of the past. at this moment, Europe repeats them. It is time to finish this practice, it is time for Portugal to have a correct position on the elimination of glyphosate use. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u175	To present draft resolution No 195 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), by the authorship of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Dear Citizens : Glyphosate is a broad, non-selective herbicide that applies after the plant has emerged from the soil. It is one of the most widely used herbicides in world agriculture, associated with situations of accidental and professional poisoning. According to the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary, between 2002 and 2012 the use of glyphosate in agriculture more than doubled, witnessing a growing trend in recent years. Herbicides, in addition to their toxicity, have several other negative effects, highlighting the decrease in soil biodiversity, which contributes to a significant decrease in the activity of bacteria and beneficial fungi to plant development. Glyphosate has already been detected in routine analysis of food, air, rain water and rivers, urine, blood and even breast milk, and several studies have been developed over the years that demonstrate its danger. The World Health Organization, through its specialized structure IARC — International Agency for Cancer Research, based in France, declared Glyphosate in March 2015 as « likely carcinogenicity for humans ». following several studies, this classification means that there is sufficient evidence that glyphosate causes cancer in laboratory animals and that there is also direct evidence for the same effect in humans. Other studies also analyze their negative impact on male fertility. According to the statements provided by the current bastonário da Ordem dos Médicos, José Manuel Silva, concerning all known information on the impacts of glyphosate on health, and I quote: "All these data and the lack of others, should lead to a careful reflection on the future of glyphosate, in particular, and of chemical risk management in the food field in general. The worldwide recognized precautionary principle states that, in view of clear evidence of negative impact on health or the environment, the absence of definitive scientific evidence should not prevent the implementation of minimizing measures. Economic interests cannot and should not be imposed on the moral imperative of protecting the health of the population". Already in November 2014, on the proposal of the NAP, the city of Lisbon, in its municipal...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u177	You would like to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u178	... — I shall finish, Mr President, by adopting a recommendation to the House to end the use of glyphosate in this city. However, the draft NAP resolution recommends that the Government implement the precautionary principle and vote against the renewal of the Glyphosate license in the European Union for more than 15 years; prohibit the marketing and use of glyphosate in Portugal, replacing this herbicide with other methods, manuals, mechanicals, biological methods or thermal methods, similar to what has already happened in some country authorities and, lastly, promoting the realization of an analysis programme to surface water, to verify the presence of glyphosate residues. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u179	To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today propose to the Assembly of the Republic and, therefore, to the other parliamentary groups, the adoption of a recommendation to the Government to urgently promote forms of clarification, in particular, to farmers and local authorities but also to the general population, on the results related to the effects of glyphosate on human health referred to by the International Agency for Research on Cancer, of the World Health Organization. On the other hand, the Greens propose that the Government urgently pursue the prohibition of glyphosate use. We also propose that the urgent proposal and the intransigence of defence be taken into account so that such an interdiction be given at the European Union level. We therefore consider the Greens to be an imperative to stop the renewal of the Glyphosate license by the European Union. Finally, we propose that, essentially, small and medium-sized farmers be supported in the transition phase for the use of other alternative, glyphosate-free means. In fact, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these proposals become all the more important as we know that when we talk about glyphosate, we speak of a herbicide that is extremely dangerous to human health. That is what the World Health Organization expressed. We are talking about something harmful to health and the environment and, at the same time, we are talking about something that is widely used by this world outside and also in our country, with great particularity. It is a very widely used herbicide, on a large scale, in intensive agriculture in general but also for domestic uses, being still very often used in cleaning public roads and in water lines, to control infestants. On the other hand, we also know that this herbicide is deeply linked to genetically modified organisms. The more transgenic, the more glyphosate. It is not by chance that multinational Monsanto sells both glyphosate and transgenic varieties, and the generality of the transgenics are worked to be tolerant of the herbicide glyphosate. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with dangerous options for health and the environment. And then it's always the history of the habit: as it doesn't kill in time, but it's causing problems to several generations over time, due to continued exposure to glyphosate, it reaches a certain height and there's always someone who concludes that there's no direct relationship or proof of a direct relationship between huge cases of cancer and the widespread use of glyphosate. But the World Health Organization has already awakened the competent entities to this effect and has already determined that we are talking about a cancer substance. Therefore, we, as political leaders, have an obligation to act. And we have an obligation to act not only at the national level but also at the European Union level. The Greens, as soon as they knew about the determination of the World Health Organization — if any of the Members and any of the Members. Members recall — they immediately put the matter into a debate with the former Prime Minister in a fortnight, and mentioned their concern, asking the Government to act in relation to the danger of this herbicide, so widely used in Portugal. The Prime Minister then stated that he considered there was no evidence that there could be contamination and that there would be an investigation into the matter. It is almost like those who say: "There is not so much to do, nor are we going to give ourselves a great deal of work to do". Because we believe that this is not a proper application of the precautionary principle and that those who have political responsibilities before such an alert have an obligation to act — and to act firmly.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u181	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u182	I will finish, Mr. President. And one of the first things to do is properly inform the population. in the previous Legislation, we also presented a bill to ban the use of glyphosate, but PSD and CDS, unfortunately, did not disenfranchise this initiative, voting against. Here we are, in this legislature, re-presenting the bill, in the conviction that there may be conditions for it to be approved. That's how we want it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u183	I shall now give the floor to the other parliamentary groups. Mr. Luís Pedro Pimentel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate promoted this afternoon by the extreme left, through these draft resolutions, is partial, populist and demagogic, because, with these initiatives, it is not intended to discuss, study or deepen what is really involved, which is to suspend, or not, this systemic herbicide, glyphosate. On the contrary, what the left proposes is the simple prohibition of a chemical, without weighing scientific opinions. He is not interested in the evolution of science or the conclusions of the latest scientific studies, because he has pre-defined prejudices. What we see here today is the left handover to populist agendas. We see the left against the interests of the country, our farmers, our agricultural production and the sustainability of our agriculture. The importance of this subject required, above all, more and better arguments. After one year of the first debate in this plenary on the same subject, I believe that it would be necessary for the parties proposing the initiatives to review the grounds advocated and, at least, a serious follow-up of the situation at international level. But what happens is that the proposal is the same: to prohibit glyphosate at national level, even after the recommendation against the specialized and credible entity for this subject, which is the European Food Safety Authority. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the immediate prohibition of glyphosate without it being in the other Member States of the European Union, what would it bring to Portugal? First, it would break confidence in the European institutions; second, it would exacerbate the costs of our farmers' context in relation to the other European partners; and thirdly, it would result in the worsening of the agri-food balance, with the decrease in national production to be offset by the increase in imports of cheaper food produced in traditional systems. in this context, will it be crucial to work on alternatives to the use of glyphosate before its voluntary prohibition in Portugal? Does the far-left understand that the country is prepared with alternatives that dispense our farmers with the use of this herbicide? Will the Government be in a position to reject the use of this substance, as it is defended here to do so? in the PSD, we consider that the topic is serious and that it should be analyzed with responsibility, weighting and sensitivity. As we have done in the past, we continue to argue that the position of the Portuguese Government should be responsible and weighted, in collaboration with the competent European authorities, respecting the technical and scientific opinions. Considered relevant and of the greatest importance, this subject must be addressed and studied in full detail by credible and certified entities, but above all without populism and alarmisms. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u185	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss concerns about the application of a herbicide, glyphosate, marketed with the best known name of Roundup. Concerns about the application of chemicals affecting agriculture and other activities, such as cleaning public spaces, have been growing. They are subjects that can seriously affect the health of populations and, in some cases, such as glyphosate, experts have already confirmed these possibilities. Technological development and pressure to produce more and more in less time, in a profit-maximizing perspective, has been impacted on production. It is enough to recall what was the position of the former PSD/CDS government, specifically its Ministry of Agriculture, always available to value agribusiness, the production of superintensive character, always reducing family and small-scale agriculture, tending to be more friendly to the environment. This model is stimulated when the country's ability to control the application of these products is diminished in parallel and its effects are monitored. The Advisory Committee on Pesticides and the Committee on Toxicological Assessment of Phytopharmaceutical Products were set up in 1994 and cancelled by several governments, with the argument that monitoring of these matters is the responsibility of the European Food Safety Authority. This, associated with the de-investment in the State Laboratories, without the ability to fix new researchers and, in some cases, without money to pay reagents or even water, leaves our country in a situation of complete fragility in the face of these problems. They are thus free to operate multinationals such as Monsanto, Syngenta or Bayer, who sell the products and seeds of plants resistant to their products. That is to say, they are on their way to complete control of the production process, adding to this their appetite for patenting life as if they had created it. The way these companies operate leaves producers without alternatives and the fact is that the immediate ban on these products places producers before them to be without an alternative to control pests and weeds that threaten their crops and their profitability. This is as serious as the lack of alternative methods in pest control. For example, the last legislative amendment on the subject of the former PSD/CDS Government forced a small farmer to take a very long course to apply fitophharmacs, in some cases to two or three trees, but ignored and completely annulled the integrated support system that was being developed. The production and use models of the territory that have been installed have serious sustainability problems and are dependent on the ability of the chemical industry to develop new products to solve problems created by products of the same nature. It is the greed to overcome sustainability and respect for environmental values. And this is having immediate costs and it will have extraordinary costs in the future — environmental, health, economic and sovereignty costs. It is therefore essential to intervene to guarantee our rights as citizens and as a country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u187	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Danger and risk are two concepts that are related but that are different. The danger is an intrinsic characteristic of a product; the risk is the probability of suffering damage resulting from that danger. And as likely it is, it depends on how much exposure we all have at risk. I understand that left-wing parties have difficulty realizing this difference,... [[Thank you very much!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u189	...but she's relevant and can't be careless. And this is precisely the big difference between the evaluations made by the International Agency for Research on Cancer ( IARC ) and the European Food Safety Authority ( EFSA ), and EFSA is the official entity of the European Union. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, after reading these draft resolutions carefully and listening carefully to what you are saying. Members here have said, I cannot fail to note some points which I think are relevant to this analysis and which have been very conveniently forgotten here, which once again reveals the fulfilment of an ideological and demagogic agenda of the parties on the left. First, all these projects relate the use of glyphosate to genetically modified organisms. But in Europe — and therefore also in Portugal — Mr President. Members, there are no genetically modified organisms resistant to glyphosate. Therefore, this is not an argument for the prohibition of glyphosate in Portugal. These projects also claim that the Order of Physicians defends the suspension of this herbicide, but ignores that these statements by Mr. Bastonário were made prior to the EFSA report. Thirdly, the Greens and the NAP projects do not even refer to EFSA, i.e. the European Food Safety Authority, which is to be heard in the first instance. The Left Block actually refers to the European Authority, but to assert that it ignores the position of the World Health Organization, in an already usual disrespect by official regulatory institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u190	I have information!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u191	Fourthly, none of the parties reported the study carried out by the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment, a study prepared by Germany was the country-rapporteur for glyphosate and which corroborated the EFSA conclusions. The precautionary principle, in this case, Mr. Members, it is recommended that decisions be made on the basis of recognised scientific data and not on the basis of ideological prejudices. The NAP refers, for example, as one of the arguments for not renewing the authorisation of glyphosate use the existence of accidental and professional poisoning. But there are no toxic-free plant protection products, such as no toxicity-free medicines. Even a simple medication for a headache, if it is not used at the right doses and we will take the packaging only once, will have bad effects on the body. Therefore, if in the use of medicinal products we should take only the recommended doses and follow the prescriptions of a physician, in the same way the use of phytopharmaceuticals — which, for those who do not know, are the remedies of plants — can only be done by properly trained applicators and must follow the standards for the use of the packaging, in particular the purpose for which they are intended.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u192	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u193	I will finish, Mr. President. Glyphosate is the herbicide most commonly used in Portugal because there is often no alternative, neither technical nor economic, for a large majority of crops. It is also essential for the practice of various types of soil conservation agriculture, which is a friend of the environment and which protects the soil structure, combats erosion and reduces carbon footprint. I shall finish, Mr President, with doubt. This same topic was discussed in the European Parliament on Monday, where it was voted and approved by a majority today the renewal of the authorisation to use glyphosate, on which the Block on the Left very conveniently only referred to the part of interest to it. In view of the position taken by the Portuguese Government for this vote, it will be interesting to see how the'management' in Portugal will work, since the'management' in the European Parliament has not worked. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u194	For an intervention, Mr Francisco Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The search for more sustainable development models represents one of the greatest challenges for mankind. Currently, and with regard to agriculture, there are several models that support their multifunctionality, these models that include, among others, subsistence agriculture and biological production models and which culminate in more intensive forms of agro-industrial exploitation, which use, in a binding manner, the use of various technologies and incorporates several innovative solutions, including transgenic organisms. The role of the agricultural sector within our economy is unquestionable. in fact, if its role as a creator of wealth and employment is natural, also its role as a preservation of the environment, as a occupation of the territory, as an obstacle to desertification and buffering of social crises is relevant in our society and, as such, must be valued. We know that the relationship of agricultural activity with food production is intense and that the increase of the world population, with the consequent need to produce food goods, are two factors that must be associated with the intense consumption of herbicides in today's agricultural practices. Portugal is no exception and the use of glyphosate reaches significant levels that we should not ignore. But we cannot ignore that its sudden ban would pose serious problems of competitiveness to our agriculture, particularly in more intensive production sectors. This debate should therefore not be confined to the agricultural sector. A holistic view of the topic has to take on an interrelationship with public health issues across relevant aspects of food and environmental security, in addition to economic factors that also need to be included in this equation. It is therefore in this matrix of multiple variables that our political evaluation should be carried out, taking into account all the scientific knowledge that has been produced on the subject, which, as you know, is not unanimous and this parliamentary debate once again has proved it. We should value all the positions that various European countries, official entities and various non-governmental organizations (NGOs) have taken on the subject in writing and assume that issues related to the identification of carcinogenic agents and the increasing occurrence of multi-resistant bacterial strains should be considered as very relevant and that more attention should be paid to. We have found that the position of WHO ( World Health Organization ) is not consistent with the reading that the European Food Safety Authority ( EFSA) makes about glyphosate and activation of the so-called precautionary principle. We should commend the associations of farmers, who advise their associates to make regular, rational and conscious use of the various pesticides and encourage them to adopt integrated protection practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u196	The time available is running out, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u197	I conclude now, Mr President. It is also necessary to highlight all our municipal chambers and parish councils that decided to exclude the use of glyphosate in their territories by using mechanical, thermal and biological means as a more sustainable alternative. We must highlight the seven priorities that the European Commissioner responsible for the areas of health and food security has taken up for his mandate and which includes the review of European legislation on pesticides. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is in this diversity of positions that we must place ourselves, realizing more and more that there are no absolute and immutable truths in today's world. however, while science does not present final answers, what we should demand as citizens is the deepening of mechanisms that guarantee food biosafety, one of the main guarantors of the sustainability of our planet. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u198	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of our work, I request Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, Mr. Abel Baptista, to proceed with the reading of the minutes relating to the results of the vote on 8 April for the election of representatives of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group and the Left Block Parliamentary Group in the National Education Council. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u199	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote for the National Council of Education is as follows: « On the eight days of April of two thousand and sixteen days the representatives of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Left Block Parliamentary Group were elected in the National Council of Education. The result was as follows: Voters — 180 Votes 'yes' — 96 White votes — 53 No votes — 31 in the legal terms applicable and in view of the result obtained, they declare themselves elected as representatives of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Left Block Parliamentary Group in the National Education Council the following candidates: Actual: Porphyrio Simões de Carvalho e Silva Manuel Fernando Rosa Grilo Suplentes : Maria Odete of the Conceição João Mariana Fernandes Avelãs To note the present was washed up, which will be duly signed. Deputies Scrutinadores, Pedro Alves — Diogo León. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-13.u200	Our agenda has been exhausted, and I will announce tomorrow's agenda. The plenary session will begin at 3 p.m. with the following agenda: urgent debate, requested by the Government, on innovation of the Portuguese economy, to be followed by the appraisal of draft resolution No 113/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government legislate to allow the Portuguese Environment Association to share tasks with SEPNA in the context of environmental crimes, in particular by training and certifying its agents so that they can collect evidence that has a legal framework ( CDS-PP ). Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, even before closing today's session, I would like to remind everyone that, in the context of the commemorations of the 40 years of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, it will immediately take place in the Lost Steps, the play at this first hour, for which everyone is invited. Good afternoon and thank you all. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 13 minutes.]]
