ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u1	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we get to the agenda, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. Law No 31 / XIII was introduced ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrates a transitional scheme applicable to IRS income declarations for 2015, which allows the option for joint taxation in declarations delivered outside the legally provided deadlines, which falls to 5. the Commission. The projects of lein.o 303 / XIII were also entered ( 2. ( a ) — Reinforces rights and income and ensures the right to collective bargaining in the business public sector by repealing the serious rules of Decree-Law No 133 / 2013 of 3 October ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 304 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns ), eliminating the benefit of the exemption of Municipal Property Tax ( IMI ) for political parties ( CDS-PP ) and 305 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amendment to Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June defining the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the continental territory ( PSD ), which falls to 1. the Commission. Finally, draft resolutions Nos 474 / XIII ( 2 ) were introduced. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government of the Republic take urgent measures to cover the damage caused by the wave of fires in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PSD ), 475 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Start of retraining works in the secondary school of trucks in the school year 2016 / 2017 ( PCP ), 476 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to strengthen fire fighting support mechanisms in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the populations affected by the August 2016 disaster, 477 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — A policy to defend nature at the service of the people and the country ( PCP ), 478 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of measures to safeguard national milk production ( CFP ), 479 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the conclusion of a national cooperation agreement between the Central Administration of Health Systems, IP, and the Association for the Protection of Diabetics of Portugal for a period of five years in accordance with Article 2 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). Article 3 ( 2 ). Article 8 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). o, all of Decree-Law No 138 / 2013, of 9 October ( PS ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 480 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Urgent rehabilitation of high school trucks ( BE ), 481 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that it provide military means to the territory of the Autonomous Region of Madeira which currently carry out monitoring, search and rescue missions with capacity to intervene in the fight against forest fires ( BE), 482 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make available to the competent municipal, inter-municipal and multi-municipal authorities access to the mechanism established for the automatic allocation of social energy tariffs as a contribution to the adequacy and improvement of the social water tariffs approved by them ( BE) and 483 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — On means of support to the Autonomous Region of Madeira with regard to forest fires ( The Greens ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is first of all an urgent debate required by the PSD on investment uptake and economic growth. Secondly, Decree No 31 / XIII is to be re-appreciated — The first amendment is made to the Statutes of the Public Transport Society of the Port, SA, annexed to Decree-Law No 202 / 94 of 23 July, and the eighth amendment to Decree-Law No 394 -A / 98 of 15 December, amending the bases for the concession of the light metro system of the Port and the Statutes of the Port Metro, SA. Eventually, we shall vote for this diploma, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, we will generally discuss Bill No. 30 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System adopted by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August and to Bill No 274 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 49 / 2014 of 27 March regulating Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System ) and establishes the regime applicable to the organization and operation of judicial courts ( PCP ) together with draft resolution No 460 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of priorities for reforming the new judicial map ( BE ). Let us then initiate the urgency debate required by the PSD on investment uptake and economic growth. To open the debate, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u4	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, who saw them and who saw them! It is the most appropriate comment that happens to me when I look at management and I hear about investment, growth and deficit. Who saw them and who saw them! That's really it, without taking or putting. Until a year ago, what were the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block saying? They said that it was essential to promote economic growth, that the deficit was a garrote that had to be abandoned, that we had to bet mainly on public investment to relaunch the economy and bring Europe into line. Who saw them and who saw them! Today, they're the same. What changed was speech and political practice. Was public investment scarce until 2015? Well, it was. But today is much more rare. To compensate for its deviations, the government cuts, cuts, cuts in public investment. And your assistants, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, what do they do? Let's see and shut up. Economic growth was only 1.5% of GDP in 2015? What they were saying, then, VV. Ex. who are sitting there, more and more to the left? That was a short, meaningless growth. And what is the growth today? It is in the order of 0, 9 %, i.e. half of what they predicted. And the gentlemen. Do you understand that this is enough? What does the government say? Mind. Pretend it's all online. And what do your assistants say about the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block? Put them on. Let's see and shut up. [[PSD applause.]] in the past, the deficit was a terrible garrote and those who tried to reduce it were a dangerous neoliberal, with short sights and economic thinking. That's what the opposition of that time said. Reaching power, the Socialist Party and its helpers, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, did not take time to change. Now, the only thing they talk about is the deficit, the only result that mobilizes them is the deficit, the only concern that consumes them is the deficit. I am glad that they have become the virtualities of reducing the deficit. Welcome! Before late than ever. Only there was no need for them to kill public investment at once and liquidate the economy, at the expense of more taxes, a strategy of reversals and retreats and, above all, at the cost of less credibility and less confidence in Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is clear to everyone today that the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block have changed their speech and changed their practice. Everything, just and alone, because they went from opposition to power. But more serious than that is that the new strategy of the government and its helpers is failing roundly and leaving dangerous consequences for the future. Let us see: firstly, the strategy has failed to expect it to be the consumption of families to be 'pulled' by economic growth. It's a brutal failure, without pain or pity. And the biggest failure is the fact that families do not consume because they are afraid of the future and, above all, because they are afraid of the effects that government policies can have in the future; Secondly, this brutal failure is accompanied by a very dangerous consequence: this government and its helpers, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, killed any idea of an immediate alternative strategy, because they killed private, national and foreign investment. This is the most perverse consequence of the action of management. They started by scrapping signed contracts; they went on, back with the word, and broke commitments on the decline of the IRC; they went on, scrapping the idea that there would be no more tax aggravating and, after all, moving on to more a tax on real estate. when they spent their lives breaking contracts and commitments, the government and its helpers, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, ended up breaking confidence in Portugal. It's always like this: whoever doesn't keep the word, it doesn't offer confidence. Therefore, entrepreneurs do not invest. They're afraid, they're standing back, they don't trust, they don't believe. Therefore, there is no investment, neither national nor foreign. We are, in this particular, through the streets of bitterness. Therefore, you have failed twice: you have failed in the strategy that you chose to bet on consumption and have failed because you have killed any alternative strategy based on the attraction of investment, national and foreign. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u5	But what is even more serious is not your political failure. The grave thing is that your political failure has consequences in people's lives. Fewer investment today is less economic growth in the future. Less economic growth is less employment, less purchasing power and less social justice. That is how illusions are generated, and that is how policies are no longer sustainable. Mr. President, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The Socialist Party and its helpers are setting up a Maniqueist vision, that the creation of wealth is an enemy of the elimination of poverty. It seems to be a sacrilege to undertake, to have savings and heritage, when these savings and heritage also result from work and merit. The goal is to have a society based on a smaller common denominator? This is a vision that destroys the economy and societies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u6	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u7	I conclude now, Mr President. Today, there can still be the illusion of «morning singing», but it will not be for long. After all, as everyone knows, only the wealth created can be distributed and today, unfortunately, the country almost does not create wealth. This is the historical heritage that management is accumulating. One day, to try to survive, they still divorce each other. The truth, however, is this: with divorce or without divorce, VV. They will be judged by your failure and the failure of your policies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u8	Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese economy is growing. GDP grew further in the second quarter, leading to a high growth review by INE. Non-financial companies' investment grew 7, 7 % in the first half of the year when one year was growing to 1, 1 % — repeat, 7, 7 % growth of non-financial private enterprises, a growth seven times greater than that which was happening one year ago. In the second quarter there was a net creation of 89 000 jobs and we are having a record year, with a growth of more than 10 % in tourism. In short, the Portuguese economy is growing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This does not make sense of a defeatist, negative speech. It makes sense, yes, a speech of those who want more, of those who demand more and say: «The Portuguese economy is growing, we want it to grow even more». [[P.S.'s applause.]] After almost a year in which the GDP growth rate has been slowing down — the GDP growth rate in 2015 was lower in the second quarter than in the first quarter in the third quarter than in the second quarter, it was lower in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter; it was actually slowing down, and that is what it means to be slowing down — although it remained with positive growths, as it is today, but after a slowdown, we had an improvement in the second quarter towards the first quarter, which gives some hope for acceleration. And the third quarter data are also positive, giving also indications that there may be an increase in the rate of growth, but still a lower rate of growth than we would like. The data published today in the World Economic Forum's Competitiveness Report are data that concerns all of us, of course, but it is data that, if we were to be critical of someone, they would be CL in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Those who read the competitiveness report with some attention realize that the data used in this report are 2014 and 2015. For example, the competitiveness report points to a worsening factor in competitiveness with the decrease in the number of students in higher education, something in which Portugal retreats six positions, but 2014 data are used that compare negatively with 2013 data. I think that in 2014 this government was not yet in office. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Data from public debt, deficit and various other indicators are generally either 2014 or 2015 and are not all negative, thanks to God, as the recorded score does not decrease. But, in fact, there is a backlog of some positions, which repeats the backlog already checked in the previous year, and I think that, in relation to the 2014 and 2013 data-based report, it is even more difficult for this government to have some responsibility. I would like to point out four signs of confidence that have been ignored, perhaps because of a lack of time, in Mr Luís Campos Ferreira's speech. The first is the increase in foreign productive investment. If we compare the first half of 2015 with the first half of 2016, what we have is a 70% increase in investment in industry. I repeat: we have a 70 % increase in investment in the manufacturing industry. We're talking about productive investment that creates capacity and creates jobs. Investment increased 70 % in industry and increased net foreign direct investment in several other services — for example, increased 60 % in real estate — i.e. increased in all sectors except in one sector. What was the only sector where it did not increase foreign direct investment? It was in the telecommunications sector, because in the first half of last year there was the purchase of PT by Altice, which represented a huge entry of money in Portugal, yes, but it was a huge input of money to buy existing assets, and therefore it did not immediately create jobs and more productive capacity. This was the foreign investment that has characterized the last few years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u10	They want to know about it! That doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u11	Foreign investment in the first half of this year was productive investment and the increase of 70 % of foreign investment in the processing industry is a good sign of this, and there are several new concrete projects starting, such as the Continental one, like Bosch or Renault, announced yesterday, of 150 million. Renault announced yesterday, Mr. Luís Campos Ferreira. You should come back, then. In addition, there was a 7 % increase in investment by companies, which has already been mentioned, and the increase in job creation, 89 000 jobs, was also a positive factor, such as the huge acceleration in demand for structural funds also had a positive effect. The only investment that really dropped was the public. There you are. Members are right, public investment has fallen, but I think they know the competitive procedures to launch public investment and realize that, to launch public investment, it takes time. [[PSD protests.]] I'm going to give an example of public investment that we're going to launch, probably from next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u12	Minister, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u13	I will now finish, Mr President. We will launch EUR 100 million of investment in energy efficiency based on funds from the PO SEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use), funds that were blocked because of the lack of transposition of a directive. It has led the previous Government more than a year to send decrees that were rejected and we, in four months, negotiating with the European institutions, have been able to conclude this and we will now launch lines for investment of EUR 100 million in the Public Administration, an investment that will not only create jobs and have multiplier effects as it will reduce in time, energy efficiency and public expenditure. That is how the economy is relaunched. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u14	in this first round of questions, Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u15	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, you just told us about a country and an imaginary economy. Surely his speech was not about the Portuguese economy. Mr. Minister has just done a fictional exercise and, like any fictional exercise, he should have taken that warning that he used to be at the beginning of the pink romances and that he says "any similarity to reality is mere coincidence". [[PSD applause.]] The Minister has decided definitely to adhere to the state of denial which Mr. Prime Minister, contaging the entire government, has decided to start in the last few weeks — a dead-end ride. In fact, I think that Mr. Prime Minister must have distributed this bestseller of airport literature by all government members,... [[At this moment, the speaker shows a photocopy of the cover of the book How to Lie With Statistics by Darrell Huff.]] ... that must at this time be the government's political marketing manual, because, in fact, we hear every day doing speculation and lying exercises with the statistics we know.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u16	Who knows him, by the way, is you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u17	But, Minister, let's get back to reality and talk about facts. And what are the facts? After 10 months of the start of this government, when we look at the Government Programme we see that the scale of the fiasco of its policy and its economic options could not be greater. There is no strategic objective that is being met, there is no wish that it will be achieved. Otherwise, Mr Minister, do you know what was the first objective of the government's economic policy? Do you remember? Increase the income available from families to relaunch the economy. We're not the ones who say it, it's the government program! And he said more: « Turn from page to austerity policy, concentrating a new model of development and a new strategy for consolidating public accounts, based on growth and employment, increasing family income and creating conditions for business investment. Do not keep on seeking. ” What's happened in these ten months? in the first half of last year, the economy grew 1, 7%, Minister, in a sustained acceleration trajectory.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u18	What about the second semester?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u19	Do you know how much you've grown in the first half of this year? It grew 0, 9 %, less than half or almost half! The blame is on the environment, Mr. Minister says. But do you know what other economies are doing? You know, by the way, how much did the German economy grow in the same period? It increased from 1, 5 % to 1, 8 % in Spain from 2, 9 % to 3, 3 % and in France from 1, 2 % to 1, 4 %. All countries, and in particular Spain, with whom we have privileged economic relations, are growing, only in Portugal is that growth is lower than last year. Growing below France, Minister, is socialist work! [[BE's protests.]] More than the problem of growth, the problem of investment is something else that the Minister and his government are trying to deny. Do you know how much the investment fell in the first half of this year? It's down 2, 7%. Do you know what the comparison with last year's counterpart period is? last year, the investment increased by 7 %, 3 %. How is it possible, Minister, to hide and completely distort these numbers? And you know why the investment fails, Minister? Because this government has done everything to penalize the life of companies, everything has done to penalize and to prevent those who invest and everything has done for those who create value to be penalized for it. We have heard today, Mr Minister, that the blame for the brutal fall we have had in terms of competitiveness lies with the previous government. Do you know what position the country was in 2011, Minister? In 46. the place. Do you know what position you were in last year, Minister? In 38. the place. The previous government in four years did what you destroyed in 10 months. In 10 months, they have reverted the competitiveness gains that the previous government has managed to bring to the country and to the Portuguese economy! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Minister, in 10 months it is more than since the objectives promised by this government have completely failed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u20	Present proposals, then!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u21	What have we achieved over the past 10 months? Nothing, absolutely nothing! The economy is in crisis, the processing industry is in recession and in contradiction with our partners and the government is solely responsible for this outcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u22	And the PSD is on its way up, it's coming up! Is that what you're talking about? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u23	The Minister is laughing, he is very grateful for the country's economic situation, but I think that the seriousness with which he is observing this debate is revealing not only his political irrelevance in the place he is occupying but, above all, of what he has done to recover his country and to save it. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u24	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u25	I will finish, Mr. President. Your policies have failed sharply because of the government and are being aggravated by Mr. Prime Minister's fanaticism, which denies the evidence and fears not to see reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u26	Very weak your intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u27	I ask you to finish, Mr Leite Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u28	I don't know if they're still going to fix their hand, but the sooner they make it worse. The Portuguese, with their sacrileges, took the economy out of the country of bankruptcy in which you left it. The Portuguese did not deserve to be treated with VV sedation. Ex.. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u29	And the PSD is up, up! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u30	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u31	Mr. President, Minister of Economics, in the Town Hall of Mondim de Basto, in the village of Bilhó, there is a small romantic chapel,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u32	Romanian!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u33	...who has as patron S. Bartolomeu. This saint has the devil tied at his feet and tells believers that only let him walk loose once a year on August 24th. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This particularity serves to better understand the prophecies of the still President of the PSD, who, even against S. Bartolomeu — who only lets the devil walk loose once a year — every week, or when they give him the opportunity, comes here to release the devil and announce the end of the world and the fifth hell for the future of Portugal. If it is true that this story says nothing about the devil, it already says everything about the credibility of the announcements of the still leader of the opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in fact, there is nothing new: the announcement of the devil emerges after the PSD and the CDS have declared to the exhaustion that there would be a need for a plan b for the control of the deficit, because, according to them, the political options would reveal, in the short term, the failure of the alternative government. But, for the harm of the sins on the right, the INE has been responsible for presenting the extraordinary results of a 1, 8 percentage points fall compared to the first half of 2015, pointing to a trajectory that allows the government to meet forecasts and ensures that the 2016 deficit will be the lowest of the last 20 years. But before that, Standard & Poor’s reported that they keep the Portuguese rating in "stabil" and underline no risk. in the same context, and at the same time, Moody's said that the risk of Portugal needs a second rescue is absolutely low. In the meantime, the budget implementation of August has improved EUR 81 million compared to the same month last year. Once again, it is nothing that disturbs the more creative Portuguese politician's fantasies of recent times. When Portugal became convinced that the INE had been able to destroy the devil from the PSD heads, behold, the hell of catastrophic predictions goes on cheerfully, trying to hide the facts that arise day after day, in a vain and persistent attempt to prove that fantasy is stronger and more cruel than reality itself. If this was the case with regard to public accounts, economics and investment the perspective remains: the data refute the devil in the PSD and CDS. Let's see: for the outside world, growth prospects are deteriorating and, for example, OECD has lowered the outlook for 2016 and 2017. For Europe, the same institution also lowered the growth expected for 2016 by 0, 4 %. But even in this external context not attractive to growth to affect the main partners of a small and open economy abroad, the Portuguese economy is taking off a period of slowdown, which began in August last year and which began to recover from January this year. Thus, the country grows in the second quarter of 2016 in jail, showing that it is in acceleration and denying that it is falling. But more: the country grows in convergence with Europe, which never happened in 2015. But if more is still needed, I suggest that you consult the numbers released by the OECD, whose advanced indicator underlines that Portugal has maintained the upward trend since January. Alongside this economic growth, and because of it, the country is creating jobs. It was really the fourth country in Europe where the unemployed found the most jobs, to stall the unfortunate option of expelling Portuguese from their own country. The unemployment rate is therefore the lowest since 2010 and for the first time at the end of many years is below 600 000 unemployed. I finish by addressing one of the themes that most encourages the benches on the right. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the PSD and the CDS, which also here does not bring good news for VV. Ex. In everything you have said so far, you don't hit the boot with the partridge and you are easily denied. Let's see: first of all, it says the PSD and CDS that the investment is falling. We all know it's a lie. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] According to the latest INE data, the investment of non-financial companies increased by 7 % in the first half of the year. Secondly, they say that the country is not attractive. This is not the opinion of the suspect Ernst & Young, who, in a July study this year on Portugal's attractiveness to foreign investors, points out that foreign investment intentions — imagine! — increased by 25 %. Thirdly, they also say that public investment falls because it is a manoeuvre to correct the deficit. This argument, said in favour of the truth, is not serious and reveals some despair on the right. Public investment is mainly financed by structural funds whose impact on the deficit is zero, and you know that. In addition, this Government has found the Portugal 2020 programme completely dying,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u34	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u35	...there was not a single competition launched for the authorities, for example, and it had to try to raise it to make it possible for public entities to access the financing. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right-wing deputies road shows that, when they do not find the data that shows the miraculous thesis of the disaster, they put all the views of the Portuguese on the fiasco that has been the tone of the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u36	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u37	The country does not expect the opposition to the Government to be a centre of hate announcements, placing Portuguese society on a permanent standstill. Good sense and sense of responsibility require the right to change behavior for the sake of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u38	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD calls us today for an investment debate whose importance is recognized by everyone as an essential lever of economic growth and social well-being. The news about the evolution of investment in Portugal is bad, this is indisputable. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u40	In fact, data from the quarterly economic environment for investment confirm a path of reduction of gross fixed capital formation which everyone is concerned and asked for. But that bad news isn't right now, they already have some beards. in fact, these news are not exclusive from the first two quarters of 2016, they already come from behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u42	Explain why this investment trajectory is the most important of us, especially since we are talking about the behavior of a strategic variable such as investment. But that doesn't matter to PSD and CDS. And why? Because the PSD is interested in raising the political chicana and not a correct interpretation of the facts. It is evident, for example, that when considering a variable such as investment, whose most relevant impacts are on a medium and long-term horizon, it should be analyzed in longer series, advising caution when it comes to indicators of conjuncture. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The most you can conclude is about trends that data can reveal. And what do those same data tell us? Two things: first, that quarterly gross training, starting in the first quarter of 2015, has therefore been decreasing five consecutive quarters ; second, that this trendal evolution is in line with the evolution of the gross domestic product, which implies that the debate cannot ignore the responsibilities of the previous government and its policies in the evolution of the Portuguese economy in the period. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Having said that, it will be worth remembering, as Mr Minister for Economic Affairs has had the opportunity to say in committee, that the PSD/CDS government, perhaps for reasons of incompetence and dissociation, left a heavy legacy in terms of investment projects and applications integrated into Community funding programmes. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] In other words, in Community funding programmes, this is a real desert. However, when home work is not done, without projects, without approved candidacy processes, without any dynamics in the development of the Portugal 2020 programme and the Junker Plan, it is understandable that investment, which is largely reliant on Community support, either in the private sector or in the public sector, is strong. This reality is rather worrisome, no doubt.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u43	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u44	We well know that the right, for four and a half years, diabolized public investment and therefore also the breakdown of this strategic component... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Take it easy! Take it easy! As I said, the breakdown of this strategic component of the total investment was more than 50 % by volume.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u45	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u46	I shall conclude, Mr President. So today there are a number of sectors of economic and social activity that are absolutely lacking in public investment and that need to be rid of the ties that the previous government has raised around them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u47	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u48	In conclusion, Mr President, would you like to leave a very simple question to Mr Minister: can the Minister give us good news about public investment in the next period? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u49	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Mr Minister, you have come here today to repeat the theory of the three myths that we have heard last week through the mouth of Mr Prime Minister, that is, that it is all right in Portugal, that investment, exports, growth are going on magnificently. Unfortunately, it is not us who deny it, it is reality that rejects it. The Minister has no « three myths» ; he has three « minutes».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u51	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u52	First « mint » : the investment is growing in 2016. When we look at the data of the National Institute of Statistics, gross capital formation, we realize that last year there was an investment growth of 4, 2 % and that this year is falling more than 2 %. And if we look until just for the second half of 2015, which you say was the origin of the world's evils, the truth is that in the second half it has grown 3, 4 % and is now falling by more than 2 %. [[Yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u53	Minister, more serious than these numbers is knowing that this government is contributing to this. The truth is that public investment, which was to grow—and was planned in the Budget which grew by about 12 % — is falling by more than 11 %. This means that there are EUR 600 million, which was planned to be injected into our economy to dynamize it, which are currently outside our economy. And to this we must add something else, Minister : is that your government is increasing the delays in paying companies. That is, the state's debts are rising — more than 300 million euros have risen this year alone. Looking, then, at the real economy data, we see what's going on. When we look at the creation of companies, we realize that this year the number of new companies is falling when compared to 2015 — less than 3 %. But worse than that is that the number of dissolutions of companies, which are disappearing, has fired 66 %, which means that more 11 000 companies have disappeared than in the same period. Mr Minister, we know that there is no confidence in investment and what you are doing is to break trust. When they decided not to reduce the IRC what they told the companies was that the climate was going to be uncertain and that the best thing was to postpone investments. When they talk about the new real estate tax, what they're doing is scaring investors. Mr Minister, it is amazing that you will come here to talk about the study of the World Economic Forum, when this study says, very clearly, that it is worsening political instability in Portugal, the breakdown of confidence. In fact, I believe that this study, like tobacco sticks, has a warning, which is «the World Economic Forum warns that a government supported by communists and Trotskyists is hurting the economy».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u54	All right! [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u55	But, Minister, we are going to your Government's second "mind" : that exports are growing more than they were growing last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u56	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u57	It's wrong, Minister. The truth is that in 2015 we had an export growth of 5, 2 % and at present exports are growing by little more than 2 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u58	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u59	Mr President, even to conclude, I would like to say that the third'mint' is that this year the economy is growing more than it was growing last year. When we look at the year 2015, we know that the Portuguese economy grew 1, 5 %. At this moment it is not growing more than 0, 9 %, which, Minister, saying in a language that any socialist understands, is very little. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u60	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : in this discussion on investment capture and economic growth it is first of all important to clarify what we are talking about when we refer to investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u62	Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u63	It is that the concrete reality of foreign direct investment, so called, has been demonstrating that the strategy pursued so far has served, essentially, to ensure loud dividends for the foreign economic groups that have invested, let us say, in Portugal. See cases of ANA - Airports of Portugal, Loyalty, National Energy REN-Networks, or — if the PSD and CDS had succeeded — of STCP ( Corporation of Collective Transport of Port, SA ), Carris and Metro. In addition, the most recent data on the structure of foreign direct investment by sectors show that only 6, 4 % are invested in the manufacturing industry, 2, 6 % in construction and 77 % in the service sector, with particular emphasis on the financial and insurance subsector. This proves that the overwhelming majority of these investments correspond, after all, to mere financial applications, little or nothing contributing to national productive investment. What is needed is investment that is worthy of that name, which allows us to modernize our infrastructures, develop our productive potential, stimulate economic activity and our ability to create wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u65	This for the PSD and CDS makes no difference, but for our country and for our economy it makes all the difference. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u66	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u67	What's more, let's get rid of who thinks this problem is right now! Between 2000 and 2007, the net investment fell by 31, 3 % and between 2007 and 2011 fell by 90, 9 %. With the interference of the troika and with the PSD/CDS government, the country moved for the first time to a negative value of net investment. In four years, the accumulated balance of the negative net investment reached EUR 15, EUR 9 billion. Negative, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! This is what we had in the decades and a half, but the PSD is indignant: "It was all so good and now they're going to ruin this! Do not keep on seeking. ” As one of my comrades wrote a few days ago, we thought that experienced and excellent managers, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and risk friends invest when they felt through their "enterprises" sensors, a business opportunity, when they judged the time for the expansion of activities or for the modernization of an industrial project and after all it is all much simpler: it is to have the government with friendly people, that it gives confidence, that it does not miss the tax benefits and even a reduction of the IRC (tax on the income of the collective people), bad community subsidies and others, finally, people of the chest, that it guarantees a minimum state but that it gives maximum of facilities and aid to private capital, because without that it does not move. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, there is no pirouette or candle to ignore this central issue: investment must be dynamized not as a way for the accumulation of profits in foreign groups but for economic development and for the transformation and modernisation of our infrastructures. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u68	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, in recent days, we have heard the PSD say that the government was putting Portugal on the de-investment radar, but when we look at the data and numbers, that is not the reading we do. [[Oh, no! Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u70	What we think is that it is the PSD that is with serious and great difficulties in getting out of the discredit radar. Today they don't even want to hear about the deficit. How well Mr. Luís Campos Ferreira said recently, «who saw them and who saw them! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But we look at INE data and numbers, which tell us that business investment intentions, in nominal terms, are at a rate of variation of 6 % in 2016, which compares to 3, 1 % in October 2015 ; that non-financial companies investment has grown in nominal terms 7, 7 % in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the same period; that there are improvements to the unemployment rate—that is not to speak in the tourism sector anymore. It wasn't The Greens who made the accounts, we're not making up numbers, these are the data of the National Institute of Statistics. Then, Minister, we have noted the good news that the government will relaunch the investment, because in fact our country continues to need investment, especially quality public investment that serves as a leverage for private investment and that can promote the growth of our economy. But whenever we talk about public investment we have to talk about a question which the Greens have long complained about and which has to do with the need to renegotiate public debt, because, in our view, public debt, the way it is structured, remains an obstacle to our development. The Greens therefore continue to defend the renegotiation of debt in order to channel resources to our economy. But the external constraints are not solely related to debt, there are other external constraints, and I would like Mr President to speak on them, particularly on external constraints arising from the budgetary Treaty. Finally, Mr Minister, Mr President of AICEP ( Agency for Foreign Investment and Trade in Portugal ), Dr. Miguel Frasquilho, said today that our country is on its way to export. And, moreover, he said that despite the issues related to exports from Angola, Brazil and Venezuela, we are still on a favourable path to exports. These are the words of the President of the Agency for Foreign Investment and Trade of Portugal, Dr. Miguel Frasquilho, and I would like Mr. Minister of Economics, if you could comment on these statements.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u71	Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The opposition brought here today the strange argument that there was a loss of confidence by private investors, and this loss of confidence by private investors was what led to a decrease in investment. After saying this, they recognize that private investment did not actually fall, what fell was public investment... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u73	...and I wonder if public investment depends on the confidence of private actors in the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I will make another revelation, revealing « secrets » data we have in the government, which are the data on the Banco de Portugal website. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Dear Mrs. Members, I invite you to read the data on the Banco de Portugal website on foreign investment because they do not demonstrate that there is a foreign investment gap or a decrease in foreign investment in all areas due to lack of trust in this government. on the contrary, what they show is that in productive investments in industry, which increase employment, which increase productive capacity, there was an increase of 70 %; that in several areas of services there was also an increase in investment and that global investment has a decrease considering Altice's buying investments, but, by withdrawing this only investment, which is an investment that has nothing to do with the confidence of the economy, we can say that foreign investment has a huge increase. In other words, in all areas where there is a large number of foreign investment projects, such as the processing industry, as is the case with services, as is the case with real estate, which are hundreds of different projects, some of 5 million, others of 10 million, others of 15 million and some of 50 million, we have an increase in foreign investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's weird! In fact, I asked for this graph to be shown in the panels and the PSD Parliamentary Group did not accept it, it did not think it was possible, but, if you want, I can distribute these data, which are not secret, in paper, are available to everyone, because it is the data on foreign investment, by sectors, published by Banco de Portugal, which compare the first half of the year with the first half of last year. Now, in this chart, we can verify, for you to understand, increases greater than 100 % on several investments. In some cases, there has been a negative net investment for positive net investment, and we are talking about financial services, consulting, wholesale and retail trade and several other investments, for example in the construction industry, where there is an increase of 74 % of the investment, or in real estate, where there is an investment of 63 %, or in other sectors, where there is an increase of 61 %. We're talking about data from Banco de Portugal. It's strange this argument. And the strange thing about this argument is that the investment fell out of a lack of trust and then it fell into the public sector! As far as the public sector is concerned, I was asked by Mr Bloc de Left, and very well that I gave the good news. And I would like to give good news already in this first quarter, but it is obvious that the investments that are launched today will only be being implemented within six months or one year, because there are procedures, and yet there are, for transparency in public accounts. Therefore, the investment that is not happening in the first half of this year is what has not been launched. But I give an example and good news: investment in energy efficiency, this EUR 100 million investment line that we are still going to launch this week to invest in energy efficiency in public buildings. It is public investment that improves energy efficiency in the public sector, it is investment that not only creates jobs, not only creates economic activity, not only contributes to environmental improvement and even health, but it is an investment that will also have positive effects in terms of reducing current spending for greater efficiency in Public Administration. It was only now possible to make this investment because we were able to unlock the funds of the SEUR PO that were waiting for the European Union to be accepted. It is that we had an ex ante condition, which was that of fulfilling the transposition of a directive. The European Union had been waiting for more than a year, and it was waiting because this work was not done, with several attempts by the previous government that had been rejected, and we, in four months, were able to solve this problem that had been dragged for another year and now these funds are available. This is good news at various levels: the Structural Funds of the SEUR PO will allow this investment that we will now launch, as regards energy efficiency in public buildings, and will also allow to launch other investments in energy efficiency, urban rehabilitation, investments with a strong impact on job creation, the dynamisation of the economy and the improvement of our cities. It is strange the argument that it would be the lack of confidence that would lead to the increase in private investment 7.7 %. If private investors are investing more they are denying your own thesis. This is why I wanted to draw attention here: they are more confident and not less confident. If private investment is growing 7, 7 %, after several years of strong fall, what we say is: it is not enough! It is a rate of investment growth that is not enough, we need to work more to speed it up, but it is an investment growth that shows confidence in the private sector. If, in the second quarter of this year, the recruitment of persons has increased in net terms by 89 000 jobs, of what we are talking about is that companies deny the the thesis of lack of confidence,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... it is from companies that demonstrate that they trust by hiring workers and that they certainly did not hire them because they do not believe there will be improvements in the future. It is these companies and it is with these companies that we are working with, it is not with those who only want to see negative signs and signs of deepening the economy, even if they do not exist, or signs of lack of confidence that try to spread to the seven winds, trying to demobilize the entrepreneurs who are telling you in a very clear way 'no, we have confidence'! That is why more entrepreneurs have competed with Community funds, which is why private investment growth has existed and has been stronger than it was a year ago and, therefore, it is also because foreign direct investment is coming to Portugal at a higher rate, particularly in the processing industry, in real estate and in various services, including in financial services, that is, because they have more confidence in the Portuguese economy. I just wanted to clarify what I said here about the competitiveness study, stating that the data that are in this study reveal what I said, that is, the data on the evolution of competitiveness related to education are 2014 data that compare with the previous year. They are clearly prior to the entry into office of this Government. Data on deficit, on public debt and on several other macroeconomic indicators are all data from 2015 or earlier and therefore the data expressed there do not affect this government, when much can affect the assessment that can be made by the previous Government. The survey data that are presented there are surveys made at the beginning of this year and at the end of last year, so it is data that, in many respects, reflect the opinion of entrepreneurs, are data weighted by last year's surveys and, therefore, if they reflect something is the lack of confidence or the lack of expectations in an assessment of the previous government. We will see, next year, whether there are any improvements or deteriorations in these indicators. We are careful, we think we need to work, but it is very interesting to see that the main difficulties revealed in this investigation by investors, by the barometer that is consulted, are exactly the same: it is the fiscal difficulties, the difficulties of bureaucracy. However, it is these difficulties that we are working on, particularly with the Simplex programme, and this year reducing the tax burden rather than increasing. In fact, I find it very interesting to see the CDS appearing here now as the public investment party. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The party that has been in a government where public investment has so long fallen needs to have some stink in appearing as the public investment party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] But if you let me finish, I just say that there is nothing new here, because the CDS also appeared as the taxpayer's party and it was the party that was in the government when there was the most brutal increase in taxes. There's consistency, after all! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u74	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to enter the second round of questions from this urgent debate, giving the floor to Mr Antonio Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Minister, in fact, there is no one who believes in you but yourself! [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u76	No one else believes in you, honestly! [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u77	This government and its supporters maintain that old maxim of the strategy of the distracting of Noam Chomsky used by the left, which I quote: "The primary element of social control is the strategy of distraction, which consists of diverting the attention of the public from the problems and the changes decided by the political and economic elites, through the technique of the flood, or flood, of continuous distractions, of insignificant information. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is exactly what you do in our country. That's the reality! They distract people so they don't know the reality of the country. They are fantasizing with myths, Minister, such myths that have already been mentioned here. in reality, the country has grown less than last year—it is simple, there is nothing to deny it. And 0, 9, you all know, is less than 1, 5. Is it or isn't it? Arithmetic is a simple thing, I know! We have a stagnant country, Minister. We have a country on stand by, thanks to you! And more: exports, as you all know, have had successive and constant breaks, unfortunately to our country. Investment does not grow — this is the realistic truth. Public investment fell 27 %. [[PS protests.]] The gentlemen are meek, it is true! ... Public investment decreased by 27 %. And we are not comparing with the macroeconomic projections that you made a year ago in the full election campaign, but with the previous government. We are not comparing with the State Budget for 2016, but with the reality of the previous year. Public investment fell 27 %. You've calmed down, it's true. Mr Minister, you really don't get one! You know why the country doesn't grow and why do investors run from Portugal? It is simple: because you flee them — that is the reality. And they run away for many reasons. For example, you do not pay traders through Trade Investment. They made their investments and are waiting to receive them. That's true, Minister. I've had a chance to get a lot. Mr Minister, now as far as the Community funds are concerned — you have just mentioned the POEUR — the implementation report for Portugal 2020, for the first half of this year — your result — what do you tell us? Fund implementation rate: 6, 5 %. More: if we withdraw the 2020 PDR, we are at a rate of 4, 5 % — as brilliant as the one you had in 2009 with that famous government! As bright as you had at that time! That is the rate of execution that they leave us. Now, do you know what the implementation rate of the SEUR in the area of sustainability is? Zero, Minister! Zero! This is the reality we have. Mr Minister, in the field of competitiveness, do you know what the rate of execution is, that is, expenditure presented, everything validated how it should be? It's two, five percent! That's the reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u78	You know why?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u79	And projects for indoor SMEs up to €100,000? Nothing, Mr Minister, we have none, particularly within the framework of the DLBC ( Local Development of Community Base )! That's the truth! Look, Minister, to finish, I just want to tell you the following: do something about Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u80	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u81	...because the situation is dramatic and you hide reality without shame at all. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u82	Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u83	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In fact, it is surprising that we have this debate on investment capture scheduled by a party whose results of four years, who want to hide because they want to spend a sponge on them, have turned out to be a total disaster. As regards GDP, it was a backlog of decades; as regards investment, it was a backlog of 30 years;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u84	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u85	... poverty has increased in arrow; emigration has increased in arrow, both emigration of young and less young; and unemployment « idem, aspas » ; and, see only, on economic results, insolvencys have increased from 2003 to 2014 and 2014 to 2015, as depicted in this chart. This shows well and is the reflection of the policies pursued beyond the troika, which they so loved to shake. at this moment, we have an reversal of these policies, but now they are here demanding that this government, which only has, I remember, 10 months of governance, suddenly perform the miracle of the economic recovery of the destruction of four years of disastrous policies for the country! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Still, this government is implementing the National Reform Programme and in the economy there are also some differences, since then in the qualification of Portuguese. The strategy is the recovery of Portuguese qualifications and the promotion of employment for Portuguese. In addition, the 86 000 jobs created and mentioned here by Mr Minister are the demonstration of a strategy based on support for sectors that promote employment and have been completely abandoned by the previous government, such as civil construction and even restoration, where tourism is included, which is now really having a great increase,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... but not due to the misappropriated policies of the former Government in terms of support for employment. As regards the use of resources in the country, I wanted to mention the example of the incentive to install companies and the decrease in context costs. at this time, more than 101 measures are implemented in various ministries—only within the Ministry of Economy are implemented more than 21 measures —, measures that had been completely stopped in the previous government and that - it should be said - only in the final phase are that they spoke again in the Simplex program, but with zero results. I would also like to point out that social support policies are fundamental in this strategy that the Government of the Socialist Party is implementing, with the support of the left parties, and that they also refer to combating poverty, combating social inequalities, inequalities which, as the report recently pointed out, have severely affected the elderly and the children. For this reason, social support measures such as the solidarity complement for the elderly have been and are fundamental to serving as a social cushion to a strategy that necessarily has to create employment, implement and encourage the growth of our SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises ). As for the issue of the social energy tariff, something that was greatly appreciated by the previous government, but which was only for mere propaganda, the current government created a mechanism for that tariff to reach the families that really need it. In short, an incentive strategy for job creation, an incentive strategy for export recovery and a strategy that underpins the exploitation of our resources is the way forward, a totally opposite, totally inverse, of course, of the strategy pursued by the previous government which has been implemented so badly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u86	Mrs. Member, I have only noticed now, but I inform you that you have far exceeded the time you had. It was a distraction, which is not normal! Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Investment is fundamental to growth and employment, but not all investment is equal. We may be talking about productive investment which creates lasting and qualified employment, which creates marketable goods to enable us to balance external accounts, that creates a diversified economy or, on the contrary, we may be talking about speculative, non-sustainable investment, that does not create wealth but that only transfers its possession, that extracts income to the economy and impoverishs the country from each expatriation of profits. This second path was the path taken by the previous government and which continues to be defended by the CDS and the PSD, which was the policy of visasgold and the privagations to the ground,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u88	Oh, is it? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u89	... investments that have only come to acquire the possession of consolidated and profitable companies, and the State sees the economy impoverish each payment of dividends. The type of investment we want is a country with a diversified economy, with qualified jobs and not a country transformed into a holiday colony of wealthy European retirees or in shelter of the oligarchies of corrupt regimes. [[PSD protests.]] And taxation determines what kind of investment should be favoured. Taxation of the estate penalizing the concentration of this kind of wealth favours growth, because it obliges, inter alia, the owners of the real estate to introduce that same heritage which is idle in the economy, or renting, or selling, or exploiting directly. In Portugal, we have one third of the idle agricultural soils and one fifth of the vacant buildings. Tax on great fortunes, in addition to being socially fair, has this positive effect on growth, favours productive investment and disadvantages speculative investment. As for the distribution of wealth, it must be distributed at the time it is created, because if it is postponed to a later time this redistribution never happens, this redistribution must be made at a time when wealth is created with fair wages and fair fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u91	It should be noted that, after the report on sovietisation and other epithets with which the property tax was attacked, the PSD quickly "put the rape in the bag" and this matter was completely forgotten last week, when the debate with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u92	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u93	Who saw them and who saw them in such short time!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u94	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u95	Now, this tax does not prevent investment, but it can prevent the resurgence of a new speculative bubble. It should be remembered that it was the speculative bubble of the 1990s and early 2000s that was responsible for much of the country's external debt, both public and private. This debt is the great strangulation that prevents investment, growth and job creation and that sooner or later there must surely be an attack, it must be faced. The question I leave Mr. Minister is whether he agrees with this view...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u96	Please conclude, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u97	... that inequalities are a factor of impoverishment in the country so it is appropriate to fight them to promote growth and that this tax on heritage, in addition to being socially fair, favors growth by forcing owners to put idle resources at the service of the economy, making them productive. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u98	Mr. Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u99	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I felt that Mr. Minister of Economics, who is called Minister in the field, who knows the reality of the country and of the companies—so, it is within the national economy—that it is not true that this practice is to come up with signs that fight and do not clarify anyone, not even to say that they are martyred and tortured by the government narrative. [[All right!]] [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u100	Mr Minister, I will give you an example: Mr Minister came to say, in relation to foreign investment, that if it were not considered an extraordinary operation of the Altice / PT, the first half of 2015 compared to the first half of 2016 would have been different. But Mr Minister also had an operation in the first half of the year on the sale of the Azores Insurance. [[There he is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u101	Therefore, being withdrawing extraordinary operations when investment is in itself an extraordinary operation... If Mr. Minister said "I always have permanent investments"... but no, investments are extraordinary. Minister, this is hammering! This is a lack of rigour! Do you know what the National Institute of Statistics says? First half of 2015 : 49 % increase in investment; first half of 2016 : - 33, 5 %. Then, when we see all the aggregated data, the reality is a lie. I think that the Minister needs to be credible for, precisely with companies, to be able to build trust, because confidence is indeed a fundamental factor. But I could say that this government is made of friends parties, of chest friends, because hearing now the left forget the public investment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u103	...that was, in the view of the left, the engine, the lever, the solution... we don't say the opposite, what we say is selective public investment, which has an impact on the economy and which is an inducer of private investment. [[PCP protests.]] Mrs. Members, in nominal terms, from the point of view of public accounting, were invested until August 297, EUR 5 million. You guys haven't killed your golden-egg chicken yet, but she's dependent on it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u105	You have reduced virtually the same as you wanted to increase in the State budget: more 12 % of investment is now less 11 %, 7 % of investment. Minister, what's going on? That's the explanation you have to give. The Minister will say: "In the Community frameworks, we did better". It's not true either. You're doing something, but, Minister, let's see. Rural development, Program payment ratio by 30 June 2016 : by 2015 the previous government paid 15% and you paid 2%. Human capital, payment ratio of the Programme : by 2015, the previous government paid 10 % and you paid 5 %. Social inclusion and employment: by 2015, the previous government paid 5% and you paid 1%. And even more: I see here some parties that were diabolizing the law that was done in the field of work, saying that it was the law for lay-offs, the law that was going to bring chaos and now everyone is pleased with the reduction of unemployment, which, moreover, is not now, because unemployment has come down since 2013, 2014 and 2015. By the way, it was even a good law. [[PS protests.]] It is also a matter of consistency, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, I do not bring graphics here but in the companies that Mr Minister visits say this: « Patrons cry for 2020 and sink management ». They're the businessmen who say it, I'm not the one who says it! Mr. President of the Republic, in Aveiro, at a meeting with autoarchs, said that past mistakes cannot be repeated and that there must be speed within the framework of the 2020 measures. You have 2000 million planned investments and the authorities have received only 4 and 6 million. It is not your farm, Minister, I know that it is not your farm, but I would say that all companies complain that 2020 is not reaching businesses in this field and obviously it is not reaching the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u106	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u107	This, as you say, does not affect the deficit. So why would it be? Maybe bad will! ... Or will it be forced budget consolidation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u108	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u109	Mr Minister, you have one last chance, because you will still use the floor, to prove that this government is not anti-investment, anti-investment and anti-profit. As you have this opportunity, I hope you do! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u110	Mr Bruno Dias has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : As we have just heard once again, the economic theory brought here by PSD and CDS has put the problem at the heart of funding and, above all, trust: those with confidence have no funds and those with funds are afraid. And ask yourself: Fear of what? The PSD and the CDS respond : "Communists". And it's settled!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u112	And it's true! It's not bad-looking!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u113	In addition, it recalls the recent statement by the President of the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal): « There is no confidence in the relationship of forces that supports the government and this continues to generate much instability that does not attract essential investment to job creation and growth of the economy ». The first thing to ask would be: why didn't they invest when the government was that of PSD and CDS, of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas, who had all their political confidence, to such people of the chest that they so ambitious? Oh, my God! The known data are enlightening: during the mandate of the PSD/CDS Government from 2011 to 2015, private investment fell, in real terms, close to 25 %. But if there was no availability for investment or, at least, to reduce business debt, there has already been — and much! — to distribute dividends, whether or not through new loans. In 2015, 8 of the 12 listed stock exchange companies distributed more than 70 % of the profits to shareholders, who had increased in 2015 to EUR 2910 million—more 280 million than in 2014. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : What this debate has shown is the crucial importance of the public ownership of strategic companies or of structural equipment. A country cannot be dependent, in carrying out these investments, on the goodwill or humor of the large economic groups, when they move with a political and ideological agenda evidently intended to maximize its profits. Can a country like Portugal allow investments in large electro-produce centres, in fundamental infrastructures of our economy, in energy transport networks, whether or not they are carried out in accordance with the business and interests of private capital? You can't! And we can repeat, once again, to see if this is what you are. Members of the CDS understand, as public investment is absolutely decisive, especially at this difficult time that Portugal is going through, to get private investment started and boosted. We speak of health centres and hospitals; of the modernization of the railway and the highway; of social equipment. We are talking about the need to reverse this path of degradation and obsolescence of infrastructure, machinery and equipment with which PSD and CDS provided our country and our economy. Let the public service users say so! Let the peoples of the Coastal Alentejo say so, with what happens in the IC1 still today! But it is also necessary to expose the incredible political hypocrisy of the PSD and the CDS, which passed so quickly from enemies of public investment, in the government, to champions of public investment, in opposition. The CFP will continue to underline and alert to this central issue for the future of our country. We must move forward towards that future, with employment, rights, production, sovereignty. Back off, no, thank you! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u114	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Economic Affairs: As we know, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have an absolutely decisive role in our economy, but micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are debating themselves with a set of problems that are not new. — and that they persist. And one of them has to do with access to bank credit. This is a problem that is not now, but it is creating many difficulties for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, these companies also face other problems, from the outset the enormous difficulty in accessing Community funds. Why? Because the processes are very complex, very complicated and often require small and medium-sized enterprises to use other companies to apply. However, small and medium-sized enterprises are then obliged to hire other companies to submit applications for funds. What I would like you to say to us, Minister, was whether there are some measures planned by the Government to simplify these processes, so that small and medium-sized enterprises can dispense this intermediary which will often seek an important piece of the cake, thus distorting the objective for which the funds were created. Recently, in his initial speech, Mr Minister referred to Community funds which would be or were suspended. I assume that the Minister was referring to the structural funds in the area of the environment and also to urban rehabilitation, which were suspended until a short time and for a certain period. And my question is simple: why? Why have these Community funds in the area of the environment and urban rehabilitation been suspended for so long? Who are those responsible for the fact that these Community funds have been suspended for so long? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u116	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has called on the Bureau to join the last intervention in the second round with the intervention to close this urgent debate, which makes a total of 15 minutes, which I hope will be cut short. I think it makes all the sense, just not to be forcing the Minister to speak, to sit down and then, again, to get up. It's just a practical matter. [[Pause.]] The Government will divide its intervention between two persons: Mr. Secretary of State for Energy and Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs. Mr. Secretary of State for Energy has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u117	Mr. President, Dear colleagues of the Government, Mr. and Mr. Members: It was mentioned here by the Members. Ladies and gentlemen — and I quote two, Antonio Costa Silva and Hélder Amaral — the question of Community funds and their implementation. I would like to make it clear that it was not possible in many situations — and the case of the SEUR PO is clearly one of these situations — to begin execution sooner because, from a legislative point of view, what we have inherited did not allow it to be so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, thanks to a work of the Public Administration, it was possible to revise the diplomas that were approved at the time, to launch at the end of July 25 million for energy efficiency in the field of renewables, and to launch, by the end of this week, EUR 100 million for energy efficiency. We could only do that because it was necessary to make amendments to a decree and to notify Brussels so that it could be carried out. But we believe that we will do so in time, which is not worth trying to use arguments in the sense that this issue has to do with this implementation, with this government. You don't, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are supportive of these issues, we understand that the country must move forward and we will not discuss them. The government is working daily to make this money reach our economy, our businesses and create more jobs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: I refer to public investment, but I would also like to talk to you about private investment. 10 years ago, competitions were launched for biomass plants — I repeat, 10 years ago. The country, in several situations, had fires that, in many cases, were derived from the non-use of forest biomass to produce energy. Only 10 years later was it possible for this government to unlock three of these plants — in the Fundão, in Viseu and Vila Nova de Famalíão — on an investment of more than EUR 127 million and more than 400 jobs. This is a fundamental issue. They have been deprived that they have made and are making this investment, that they have believed in the country and that there is also a government that is able to give them the signs of positive confidence and that the House also does so. I would also like to tell you about the investment in solar energy in the country. So far — and that is one of the reasons why we have a tariff deficit in energy of more than EUR 5000 million — all that was done at renewables in Portugal was done with subsidies. Thanks to a diploma last year, it is possible to say that, today, about 400 MW are already approved, they are already licensed, so that, in the south of the country, they can produce renewable solar energy, without any kind of subsidy. It is an investment of more than EUR 400 million, but I want to tell you that this month the interest of more private people in solar energy in the south of the country has exceeded 800 MW. So if these are signs that private people believe in the economy, in this case, in the sector of energy without subsidies, it means that we are actually making the right way. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take these situations into account when we are talking about investment in our country. I would also like to tell you about the issue of interconnections, particularly the interconnection of Portugal and Morocco. This is an investment that will be private, which is currently under study, which will involve EUR 500 million and will enable more employment in the country and that Portugal will put out of its borders the renewable electricity that we are able to produce. These are examples in the area of energy, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, which means that we are on the right track. And we indeed ask that the Assembly of the Republic also give signs of confidence to investors, both public and private, that this is the way that it is important to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u118	To close the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I was pleased yesterday to be with Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho and Mr. President of the Republic on the opening of the investment at the new Campus at the University of New Lisbon. I also had the pleasure of seeing, today, something that had already been confirmed in contacts with the company, i.e. that Renault announced that it would invest more than 150 million in Cacia, increasing employment and passing some workers to the permanent framework. Good news for the country! Since I took possession, I have been in Braga, in investments of Bosch and Fujitsu ; in Bragança, of Faurecia ; in Vila Nova de Famalíão, da Continental ; in Arcos de Valdevez, da Eurostyle ; in Braga and Loulé, of Ikea, which opened there; in Porto, of Euronext, to where it is transferring activity; in Évora, of Mecachrome or of Embraer, where we were opening investments; in Estarreja, of Eurocast ; in the Azores, of DST ; of the Pestana Group, which is opening 10 new hotels and opened, yesterday, another unit of five stars. We're talking about productive investment, which creates new capacity, new jobs. That's what we're talking about! And it was this investment that grew this year, it was this foreign investment that grew this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I believe that what Mr President has said about the Community funds we could all subscribe here. And what he said was: "We are almost two years behind us and we do not have eternity in front of us." Now, this government has not been in power for two years, it was not this government that delayed Community funds, it was this government that did everything to speed them up. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u121	Within this government, I have always prevented myself from throwing stones at the problems that existed both in the past and in negotiation. I collaborated with the former Government, as a representative of the Socialist Party, in negotiating the Community framework, to express my disagreement during these negotiations, in particular the former Secretary of State Castro Almeida, with whom I have always had a dialogue work, and I also expressed my support for the European Commission on issues in which it was important for the country to achieve a better negotiation, and we succeeded in having a constructive position with the Socialist Party, which I think was important. When we arrived at the government, with regard to incentives for companies, there were problems with payments. The problems are known to all, had to do with a system of payments other than the previous, which could be better or worse. For me, there was a problem: it didn't work, it wasn't working, it wasn't bringing money to companies, and what we did with Plan 100 was put the money to the companies. In terms of COMPETE, incentives for productive investment in companies had been allocated 4 million; 320 million have now been allocated. The honourable Member thinks, well, that 320 million is little. So I don't know what your opinion will be about 4 million, but it's less! These are the data, we're not going to discuss them because they're the ones that exist. We also launched the investment accelerator PT 2020, encouraging companies to anticipate and accelerate investment. We launched the Capitalisation Programme, which supports the financing of companies, because we believe that many companies have good projects and have difficulties in finding funding with appropriate time and cost, and this affects SMEs and also some companies that, not being SMEs, are medium-sized enterprises that we want to relaunch. We have launched important programmes in the field of innovation such as Startup Portugal and Industry 4.0 and are in dialogue to draw support with technological centres. Responding to concerns that entrepreneurs often express, in Simplex 2016 there are 80 measures aimed at companies, simplification measures, measures that can help reduce context costs. this week, in which World Tourism Day was celebrated, we have been throughout the country announcing some of the measures we have been developing, some of the programmes we are developing in this sector, which is having a 10% increase in the number of tourists and their revenues and an almost 17% increase in hotel revenues this year. That is, it is a sector that continues to grow, which is going to hit, this year, a record number of tourists, revenue and profits for the hotel, a sector where several investments are happening, a sector where, from the outset, we have launched financing instruments, such as the new lines of support for requalification, in which we have worked on the routes and, since the beginning of the year, we have managed to launch 55 new routes, a sector where we have reaffirmed a strong commitment in training and investment in hotel schools as a very important instrument of valorising human resources, in order to ensure that this sector, which is growing today, can continue to grow, and with quality. In order to continue to grow, there must be a search—and the 55 routes respond to this—, there must be funding and new investment. There are 200 investment projects that are competing with support and incentives, investment projects that are already under way, and there is also, in terms of training, a huge interest for this sector. in the programmes we launched, wi-fi in historical centres, Portugal Destination Wi-fi, the government takes a position similar to that of the agents of this sector, a position supporting innovation, a position in which this wi-fi in historical centers can allow visitors to feel more at home, it can allow those who visit us to have access to more services, it can create a platform so that the startups that are flourishing in tourism can get more easily to those who want to arrive. Today, in Coimbra, we launched the REVIVE programme, a heritage enhancement programme, a programme in which the recovery of heritage arises in parallel with the economic sustainability so that this heritage can, at the service of tourism, value the Portuguese tourist offer and be rehabilitated without being a charge to the state and, on the contrary, generating even recipes. We must look at heritage not as a cost or as a heavy inheritance but as an inheritance that we receive, that we must honor but also value. This is what this programme does and, in the concessions we are launching, we have already launched, for example, in Elvas, and we are going to launch 30 new buildings by the end of the year — public ownership is maintained, but private investors are invited to do what the State cannot do because of lack of resources, which is to invest in valuing Portuguese heritage. Also in inclusion, the program we launched this week, Tourism for All, shows a difference in what can be done. This program includes the enhancement of internal demand segments, which can help combat seasonality, such as senior tourism or the tourism of the younger ones, but also includes measures to support hotel units that want to be transformed, creating better conditions for people with disabilities of mobility or for people with visual disabilities, for example through the use of lists and menus in Braille. These are important support that can extend demand and clearly say that tourism has to be for everyone. All have to benefit from tourism, not only those who work there — workers and entrepreneurs, of course — but also a wider range of the population. This is what we are doing all over the country: in financing, in internationalisation, in broadening opportunities to businesses that are starting. A work which also includes greater mobilisation of Community funds, a work that required some revision of certain problems that existed and were blocking Community funds, such as urban rehabilitation funds, the environment and energy efficiency area, or as was the case with incentives to businesses. It is this work that I am sure you will have the support of this Parliament and I hope that you will have the support of all Members, because it is a work to revive growth. When we took possession, the growth was slowing down and not accelerating. We are working towards speeding up growth. The results of the second quarter of this year are encouraging, growth was better than in the first quarter. After several quarters in which the growth rate decreased, in the second quarter we had a chain growth greater than in the first quarter. What we expect is that the third quarter, with the very positive data we are having on tourism, with the very positive data we are having on investment, is better than the second quarter. I believe that this is shared by all those who are present here and by all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u122	To close the debate, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor on behalf of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: I think it is indisputable that, almost one year after the legislative elections have taken place that marked the end of a political cycle and the beginning of a new political cycle, we need to look at the future and assess to what extent the strategic variables that will allow the country to grow and, to that extent, develop more harmoniously are or not based on a strategic, solid and determined vision of the public authorities. It seems clear to me that the worst way to start the exercise is the one that has been used by several government members in recent times, distorting reality or wanting to avoid confrontation with reality itself. We know that in Portugal the performance of the economy is clearly below what was expected of the government itself and the players on the market. Our economy is growing substantially half of what was expected — I repeat, half of what was expected — and, within what we can identify as factors of weakness of this growth, is precisely the « investment » variable. It's not worth using juggling. We are at a stage when we should no longer make disputes about matters belonging to institutions and accredited entities that deserve our respect and, whether or not we like the data they disclose, are credible data. For ease, I refer again to the most recent report submitted by the Council of Public Finance, which simply says, with regard to the national accounts reported in the first half of this year, that the investment recorded a more marked decrease in the second quarter, passing a rate of 1, 2 % in the first quarter to 3 % in the second quarter, and that it is worth highlighting the negative evolution of gross fixed capital formation, which presented rates of 1, 7 % and 3, 1 % in the first and second quarters respectively. Therefore, if we look at official data, we realize that one of the weaknesses in the recovery process is precisely in the « investment » variable. I will not waste time, because it is scarce, addressing the issue of public investment. It is now known that he is in strong contraction, which apparently does not cause any problem of coherence between those who support the government, but there is no doubt that public investment is today the variable of budget adjustment. And if it is necessary not to spend anything by the end of the year to meet the goal, the government will not spend anything — that is another debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u124	He's been doing this for four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u125	I hope that the government will meet the goal of the deficit, because it is important for the country's public finances and for the country's credibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u126	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u127	It must be known that the path that is being followed was not necessarily the one that had to be followed, because there were alternatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u129	But the important thing is not the question of public investment. We look at the Portuguese economy over the last 20 years and clearly we see that in the last 15 years we have hardly grown in per capita terms. And why? Because much of the little investment, it would be public, it would be private, which has been carried out all these years was not productive, which means that we have to care for the quality of the investment that is made. This is the first question. The second question is: it is not with the capital we hold in the country that we will be able to grow enough either to pay the debts or to invest in the future and in the generation of jobs. We need to export more and attract more external direct investment. This is critical so that the country, in the coming years, can dream, aspire to create sustainable employment and grow above the average of our partners and, therefore, recover something for the future. But that means having a strategy. What is the national strategy that the Government has in this regard? We, when we got to the government, had a strategy...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u130	It was to sink the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u131	...and she was working because the economy was growing and the investment was increasing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u133	That's public! It's not rebuttable! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We know that we need to reduce the cost of context. We know that fiscal stability needs to be given. We know that there is a need to reduce mistrust about market conditions. One year after the elections, we may even be discussing whether, in the previous three months or in the following three months—which is, as a rule, the period of disturbance that any electoral act affects the economy—is better or worse. That has little relevance. But when we're discussing 10 months of government, don't come to me, Minister, with the idea that we didn't leave the investment all prepared and that the economy had been very bad since our time, when we had the economy growing in 2014 in 2015... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Today we know that gross value added in non-financial Portuguese companies increased in 2015 compared to the previous year and that you beat the records in exports. So don't come up with this conversation, because it's not positive or constructive for the future. What we want, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, that is to say : if we need to export more and attract more external investment, we need to evaluate the structural reforms that have been made and add a new list of structural reforms that guarantee confidence, competitiveness and market regulation. We need to have a more open, more exportable economy with less investment dependent on the internal market and more to look at the global market. That's where the Portuguese economy has failed in the last 20 years! Well, Minister, come here, let me finish and conclude that it's hard not to have a clear strategy...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u134	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u135	I really am concluding, Mr President. As I was saying, it is difficult not to have a clear strategy and at the same time to add doubts about Portugal's stay or not in the euro, about the need to restructure or not restructure debt. It is the discussion that is triggered by the support given to the Government. Finally, Mr. President, because I really want to finish...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u136	Please, Mr. Deputy. Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u137	When the government feeds ideas on how to allow access to bank accounts from €50,000, changes to the IMI, changes to urban lease, when it speaks of new taxes on real estate just in the real estate area, which has been the most dynamic in recent years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u138	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u139	... when the Minister of Finance comes to say that there may be stirs in indirect taxes, Mr. President, Mr. Members of the government, we know that this is not the way, but we are available, because we know what the way is, to make the Portuguese economy grow, attract investment and generate jobs. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u140	God free us!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u141	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the urgent debate required by the PSD on investment uptake and economic growth. We will move on to the second item of the order of business, which consists of the re-evaluation of Decree No 31/ XIII — The first amendment is made to the Statutes of the Public Transport Society of Porto, SA, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 202 / 94 of 23 July, and the eighth amendment to Decree-Law No 394 -A / 98 of 15 December, amending the basis for granting the light metro port system and the Statutes of the Port Metro, SA. As you know, the re-evaluation of a decree has very special rules. The Rules of Procedure read as follows: « in the discussion only one of the authors of the project or proposal and one Member for each parliamentary group, followed by the vote. I would like to draw the attention of the parliamentary committees, since immediately following this period of intervention there will be votes, in accordance with our rules of procedure. Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The former Government, PSD / CDS, launched a direct adjustment of EUR 820 million to deliver to the private, by means of a legitimate contract to the State, the operation of public transport in Grande Porto. Fortunately, the new parliamentary majority and the new government came in time to cancel this direct adjustment of EUR 820 million. The annulment of this direct adjustment was not only a victory of the Government and the parliamentary majority, but also of the six municipalities reached by it: Gaia, Porto, Matosinhos, Valongo, Maia and Gondomar. It was also a victory for the workers of the urban public transport companies in Porto and, above all, for the populations who were going to be injured by this direct adjustment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are talking about a direct adjustment to two months of the legislative elections, a direct adjustment of EUR 820 million unprecedented in the history of the Portuguese Public Administration, a direct adjustment marked by a series of tacks and little or no transparency. In addition to the tacks and the lack of transparency, the direct adjustment was opposed not only to the workers of these companies, but to all six municipalities covered by the operation of these companies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u143	This means that it was a direct adjustment that was highly harmful to users. A direct adjustment was in question that would lead to an increase in the tariffs of the STCP and the Port Metro. There was a direct adjustment that would lead to the degradation of the quality of service, to fewer careers and fewer frequencies. There was a direct adjustment which would lead to the revolution of the level of traffic safety. The users of the STCP and the Port Metro, which are millions per year, would be highly damaged. This was part of a global strategy of the previous government, PSD / CDS, a strategy that led to the privatization of ANA, TAP and CP Cargo, a strategy that only led to the privatization, shameful and illegal, of EMEF, because the Court of Auditors was in time to stop. But this privatisation package also included the sub-concessions of urban public transport in Grande Porto and Grande Lisboa. As I said recently, fortunately, the new majority came in time to block these direct adjustments and these sub-concessions to private. The Government Programme is being fulfilled, the capital of the Port Metro and the social capital of the STCP are to continue in the hands of the State, the operation of the STCP is being decentralized to the municipalities, according to the Government Program, these municipalities served by this carrier, as also the memorandum of understanding signed in June this year. This is the model the PS defends for the urban transports of Grande Porto and is being implemented. This is the model that is protected by the law that we have adopted here and which will be reinforced by the amendment proposed today by the Socialist Party, since, from the entry into force of this amendment proposal, nothing can be done against the majority will of the six municipalities of Grande Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u144	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u145	That is, it cannot happen what the previous government, PSD / CDS, tried to do in the previous mandate: hammer privatization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u146	As we await the registrations, I recall that the Rules of Procedure say that only one Member for each parliamentary group is involved in the discussion, but does not say that they are obliged to intervene. [[Pause.]] Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The political veto exercised by Mr. President of the Republic to the Decree, approved in this House, which determines the public nature of the public transport concessionaires of Grande Porto, has aroused our perplexity. The vetoed decree put an end to a ruinous negotiation for the people and for the public record, at the cost of public transport in Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u148	Like the one you approved at TAP!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u149	Mr President of the Republic disagrees with the majority option taken by Parliament — and expressed it through the political veto — not being at issue, as he himself acknowledges in the message accompanying the veto, any question of constitutionality, but rather a legislative intervention which he considers to be undesirable. Mr President, the approved regime represents an excessively political intervention by the Assembly of the Republic in the specific decision area of the Public Administration, subject to the future option of the Government. It considers that, in honor of the separation of powers, the legislator should not intervene in concrete decisions of the Public Administration. It would be up to the Government, as the superior body of the Public Administration, to complain of any involvement of the legislative authority in its duties. But not only does it not complain, as the text approved in the Assembly of the Republic counted the votes in favour of the Members of the Government party itself. The presidential veto was thus exercised on behalf of the pain of the government that the government does not have and that it does not complain. in a process in which the President of the Republic uses the political veto against a law passed in Parliament on behalf of grounds of government complaint, which the Government does not have, if anyone here lacks the honour due to the separation of powers is certainly not the Assembly of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u150	He also called on the President of the Republic to respect the autonomy of the local authority. There is, however, no problem here involving this constitutional principle, insofar as the possible participation of authorities in the operation of urban transport stems exclusively from the legislative act of the Government or of the Assembly of the Republic. In any case, in no way do we reject it, and therefore we will support the inclusion in the law of a mandatory hearing of local authorities, whenever any government decision on the sub-concession or alienation of shares of the concessionary companies of public transport in Porto is concerned. That's not the problem! What is essential for the CFP — we reaffirm, without misgivings — is that urban public transport must be guaranteed by public entities which are exclusively at the service of the people and who, before the democratic political power, respond to the quality of the public service they provide. Public transport should serve the people and continue the public interest, it should not be a private business, done at the expense of the public record, the degradation of services provided, the working conditions in businesses and tariff increases to be borne by users. The taxpayers' money should be used to ensure public services of quality and accessible to the general population. It should not serve, as the PSD/CDS Government intended, to transfer millions of euros from taxpayers to increase profits from private companies which as public service dealers no longer aim at increasing profits from their shareholders. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u151	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic which makes the first amendment to the Statutes of the Public Transport Society of the Port, it should be said that from the first hour the Greens expressed their opposition to the claims of the previous Government, the PSD and the CDS, to privatize public transport and, where appropriate, public transport of the Port. We congratulate ourselves until we have contributed to the reversal of the process of privatization of the Port Metro, with a legislative initiative also of The Greens. It was, in our view, a good decision for the public interest, a good decision for the people because we managed to prevent the PSD and the CDS from finally transforming citizens with rights into customers obliged to fatten the profits of the private, because that is what happens when the privatization of public transport takes place. Whether through concession, either by sub-concession, by any other way or by any other legal instrument, the result is always the same: they turn citizens with rights into customers obliged to fatten the profit of the private. The Greens are therefore pleased that they have contributed to reverse the process of privatization of the Port Metro that the PSD and the CDS wanted and today, if the reservations of the President of the Republic had to do with the involvement of their authorities in decisions on the sub-concession or transmission of social participations in public passenger transport companies, we believe that these reservations are completely exceeded by the proposal that the Socialist Party brings to discussion and that the Greens will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u153	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have seen this afternoon another trick of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u155	It's bullshit, it's bullshit! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u156	I would begin by saying that there is indeed a fundamental difference that separates us. For our bench, the fundamental thing is to have a good service, an efficient service, with as little cost as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u158	For you, what is essential is that this service be public. If the service is worse and if the taxpayers pay more, it is completely indifferent to you. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] As long as the new sacred trilogy of the left rulers is fulfilled, there is no problem. As long as the unions are satisfied, there is no problem that the users are ill served and that the invoice goes to the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u160	In other words, as long as you continue in government, there is no problem that the service is worse and at the same time more expensive. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u161	This is the sad story of this process. In fact, it does not stop being very interesting that we are talking about this at the same time as we are talking about investment. They asked what confidence is. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think that putting Portugal on the radar of a country of political risk to invest does not have an impact on current and future investments? There you go! And more: this is also a shameful record, and I am very surprised to hear these interventions. Mrs. Members, I disagree with the idea that everything that is public is better than what is private, but I confess that it was the first time that you saw, at least remember, in Portugal, a private reversal to a private person.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u162	I mean the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u163	What you want to do is to establish that the sub-concession of the Port Metro cannot be of any private, unless that private is the Barraqueiro Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u164	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u165	That's it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is truly incomprehensible. And it is also incomprehensible that the PCP, the Bloc and the Greens, in this regard, are small. [[PS and PCP protests.]] It's not bad anymore that it's private. The reversal was made from one private, chosen in a competitive procedure, to another private. This is truly incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u166	Where did you get that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u167	Where did I get that, sir? To the current Subcessionary of the Port Metro. If you have any questions, go to the port and see who's there! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Let's see who's there! Finally, the solution created does not solve the problem. I briefly explain why: what we have heard was statements — indeed, signed in an agreement — that the autoarchs would now be decision-makers, that the government had delegated competence to them, that they would decide. Today, the mask has fallen and we see well that, with you gentlemen, the city halls are not decision makers, they are mere consultants and, as such, your amendments are far from solving the problem. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u168	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are re-appreciating a diploma that has already been discussed here. A year ago, in a fury of reversals that our left brought and which extends to this day, this left decided, in a completely ideological decision, to reverse the solutions we have advanced. That is, our solutions have opposed your problems. I remember how hard it was to find a joint solution, because each was more radical than the other. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, although it was an ideological decision, today we have heard of « friends». It can be ideological, but today and now, the thing is less transparent and with much more "friends" than it had in the open public contest. The truth, ladies. Members, this assessment is based on what Mr President of the Republic has said to us. Of two, one : or what he says does not matter, or what he says matters something and the Socialist Party will have to answer that question. Mr President of the Republic raised two questions not to promulgate the diploma: firstly, freedom is being seriously abrogated, the decision-making space of our authorities. Why? Because you can decide freely within a single decision. Mr President of the Republic raises a second question: that the Government is not fulfilling its programme in what it has committed itself to — it is reading what is written — and, worse than that, he lied when, in the Memorandum of Understanding which he celebrated with the metropolitan area, he expressly stated that he wanted to involve the authorities in a solution, whether public or private. So today we have to ask: does it count what is brought to us by Mr President of the Republic or not? When I read in the newspapers that Costa is giving up Marcelo I am amazed at the « assignment», because the solution they bring us is this: when we decide on the single solution, public enterprise or fully public capital, the authorities can give the opinion they want. This gives zero space to the authorities! This solution is hypocritical and I would rather hear, however, the Socialist Party say: "We keep the decision, we do not change anything! Because this proposal is nothing, it is an insult to the intelligence of this Parliament, it is an insult to the intelligence of the President of the Republic, who is even an intelligent person. This half solution, which is nothing in socialist fashion, is mainly an insult to local power. Do you think that some author feels appreciated by this phrase: "When we decide on the one issue, you will be heard"? Is that how local power participates in decisions? Finally, one more decision in which the PSD does not review, nor does it even follow. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u170	To conclude this period of intervention, Mr Heitor Sousa, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this end of the debate, it is worth mentioning that we are discussing something that has already been widely discussed when you were here in the Assembly of the Republic and that Mr President of the Republic has meant 'to put a stick in the gear' to force the Assembly of the Republic to a more in-depth discussion of the decrees under consideration. And there are evils that come for good, because this allows us to return to the subject and to some of the arguments that the right has introduced in this debate. One of the arguments that the right has introduced in this debate concerns, for example, the question which Mrs Cecilia Meireles has now referred to on public investment. This is exactly a matter which, in terms of public urban transport companies in Lisbon and Porto, we really do have a good discussion. I would therefore like to ask the former Government, PSD / CDS, and the PSD and CDS parties what public investment you have made in public urban transport companies in Lisbon and Porto over the past four years. What was the investment? The investment that the previous government made in urban public transport in Lisbon and Porto was zero. Why? Because the strategy of the previous government was to deliver companies without any kind of commitment that would discourage private individuals from entering public enterprises. That is why you deliberately did not make any public investment in companies, and that is why in many cases companies are experiencing absolutely inadequate investment situations. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] What is happening today with the Metro de Lisboa, which does not have tickets to put on sale on sales machines, has to do with the complete absence of a decision on public investment that the previous government has legitimized, through the administrations it put in companies to clean them up from any kind of undertaking that would be taken by the private in the sub-concessions of companies. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] On the other hand, Mr President, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira said here that the current majority of parliament had not taken the authorities into account. Mr President, it should not be clear to recall the public passenger transport regime which the former Government had approved in this House, which prevented the authorities from competing with sub-concessions of urban public transport in Lisbon and Porto. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I expressly prevented them because it made the only granting entity for this sub-concession precisely the government, removing the authorities from this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u172	You've run out of time, sir. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u173	Therefore, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, on the rights of the authorities in this process, we are talking to your political practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u174	He has already far exceeded his time, Mr President. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u175	In conclusion, Mr President, I must say that the veto of the President of the Republic is certainly excessive, it is an excuse to invoke the matter, but the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party have fully responded to the doubts that the President of the Republic has and we will therefore vote in favour of these proposals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u176	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the re-evaluation of the Decree, we proceed to the vote. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system to that end. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 205 presences, to which six are added: Members of the PS Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes, Francisca Parreira, Sérgio Sousa Pinto and Wanda Guimarães and PSD Member Luís Campos Ferreira, which makes 210 presences, so we have a quorum for deliberation. With regard to the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 31 / XIII — The first amendment is made to the Statutes of the Public Transport Society of the Port, SA, annexed to Decree-Law No 202 / 94 of 23 July, and to the eighth amendment to Decree-Law No 394 -A / 98 of 15 December, amending the bases for granting the light metro port system and the Statutes of the Port Metro, SA, we shall, in particular, vote on the proposal submitted by the PS, to add a new Article 6. the ( Previous Opinion ), with renumbering of the previous Article 6. ( Entry into force ), as referred to in Article 7. o. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] To make everything clear, although I doubt whether this vote should or should not be taken, we will proceed to the vote on the new Decree, with the amendments that have been made in the meantime. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, Mr Duarte Pacheco will take note of an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the District of Guard, Local Authority of Gouveia, General Competence Section — Judge l — Case No 2278 / 11.5TACBR, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Pedro do Carmo ( PS ) to intervene in the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u178	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is no objection, we shall vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, as the last point in our agenda, we generally have an assessment of Bill No 30 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System adopted by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August of Bill No 274 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 49 / 2014 of 27 March regulating Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System ), and establishes the regime applicable to the organization and operation of judicial courts ( PCP ), together with draft resolution No 460 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of priorities for reforming the new judicial map ( BE ). Mr. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u179	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government's programme foresees — and I quote: « The correction of the errors of the judicial map(...), in a logic of integration with the policy of spatial planning, of appreciation of the interior(...) ». It also provides for the adaptation of the judicial year to the calendar year. It is with these objectives that this bill is now presented here, of which essentially follows the following: first, the conversion of the current sections of the proximity of mere antennas of receipt of documents into spaces in which the jurisdiction is exercised in full; second, the possibility of the practice of judicial acts in municipalities where there are no courts installed in places previously defined by the Ministry of Justice, hearing the Superior Councils ; third, the resumption of the designations 'court' and 'judgement' for all spaces in which the judicial power is exercised in permanence; fourth, the resumption of the coincidence between the judicial year and the civil year. In addition, the time has been taken to intervene in the rules that provide for the reinstatement of the judges by the presidents of the county, in order to better bring this regime into line with the principle of the natural judge. On the other hand, it was clarified the possibility of the practice of acts by electronic means of distance communication in municipalities other than the same region. The possibility of testimony by prisoners has still been introduced — provided that they do not have the condition of defendants — to be provided from the prison establishment, through electronic means that enables visual and sound interaction in real time. There is a set of subjects that, while integrating the philosophy of this initiative and falling into a block—and from there that are widely referred to in the explanatory statement—are not the result of this bill but rather of the diploma that develops it, of which the draft was submitted a copy to the parliamentary groups. this project results in the reactivation of the extinct courts, the modification of the geography of family and minor competences, within some districts, as well as the decoupling of central family and minor judgments, with the return of competence, in some cases, to local bodies. Finally, it results in the elevation of four of the current sections of proximity to local judgments. The purpose of this initiative is to bring the justice of citizens who serve, in an asymmetric territory, with a deserted and aged interior and with serious problems of social cohesion. The proposal for a law presented here results in intense work and collaborative dialogue with the Higher Councils, the Order of Lawyers, trade union associations representing the professions of the sector, the authorities and also with the possibility of a frank debate with parliamentary groups, whose comments and suggestions are required here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u180	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u181	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u182	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau, only for clarification and for the development of this debate in the right way.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u183	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u184	Mr President, the Minister has just stated that, together with the proposed law here under discussion, the diploma of development has been delivered. The PSD Parliamentary Group does not have this diploma. I would like to know whether this diploma was actually delivered and, if so, when it was delivered, because we have no knowledge of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u185	Mr President, the Bureau will see whether this diploma has been delivered, as the Minister has said, and that is what we will inform the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as possible. Thus, to present Bill No. 274 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u186	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: At a good time, this House is generally debating initiatives aimed at changing the most negative aspects in which the legal map approved in the previous Parliament was translated. It was, from the very beginning, a process that involved the opposition of the populations, the populations of the generality of the authorities that saw the courts of their territorial area closed or transformed into mere sections of proximity. It was a process that had a great opposition from the generality of the lawyers of this country and that caused perplexity on the part of all those who care about the desertification of the country, the abandonment of vast regions of the interior of our country, and that, with the closure of the courts, they lost, thus, another possibility of giving life to their local communities, having the populations to move, many of them without the financial or even physical capacity to do so, to places that are ten miles away from their place of residence in order to be able to deal with any matter related to the judiciary. Therefore, to this challenge since the beginning of this concern which the CFP has always expressed and which has been translated in the presentation of initiatives in the previous legislation, in which we intended to halt the constant evils of this legislative reform, also corresponded to the commitment that the CFP has assumed in this legislature in a situation different from that which existed in the previous one, to be able to revisit the judicial map and to present initiatives in order to re-approach the justice of the populations, to ensure, in particular in the criminal process in which this issue is particularly sensitive, that the crime is judged in the municipality where it was actually committed, that is, that there is this immediation, that proximity that, in criminal proceedings, videoconferencing effectively does not resolve, and that this poor reform could be corrected in this legislature. It is in this sense that, by welcoming the initiative presented here by the Government through the Ministry of Justice, we presented a bill, resuming as a basis of discussion what had been the proposal presented at the end of the previous legislature as an alternative to the legislation that the previous Government had made pass. in this sense, what we want to express here is our complete availability for a legislative process where, in the specialty, the proposed solution can be discussed in detail, the various solutions in comparison and, with the judicial operators, with the Superior Councils, with the Order of the Advocates and with the authorities who wish to manifest themselves about this legislative process, solutions can be found that guarantee, in fact, the effective judicial protection that our Constitution determines as the right of all citizens. We know that, even today, citizens have great difficulties in access to justice, especially those with less economic capacity. We know the difficulties resulting from the judicial costs, from the laxity of the functioning of justice, from the fact that for many citizens access to justice is a mirage, and it was only lacking that, from a geographical point of view, through the removal of the populations of the courts, this issue was aggravated. So here, with regard to the judicial map, we now have the opportunity to make a decisive contribution so that the courts can continue to be accessible to the people, confident that this implies requirements, in particular with regard to the allocation of the courts of the material and human resources necessary for their effective functioning. That's a problem we're going to have to face. But a good judicial map is an important step towards effective judicial protection by citizens and to effectively feel that the political change that has occurred in our country in the last legislative elections is worth it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u187	The Bureau is already in a position to answer the question put by Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim. Mr, the bill entered on 16 September 2016 and 11 opinions were delivered as annexes. In fact, we could find out from the services that no other bill has been submitted or any additional initiative or decree. The Bureau would therefore give the Minister the floor to supplement this information or, if she could, give some explanation about the statements she has made. I don't know if Mrs. Minister wants to do it now...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u188	Of course, Madam President. Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u189	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u190	I'm sorry, I was starting from the assumption that the project had come — in fact, it was worked out with this expectation. There will have been any lapse and the project did not come. So I left the assumption that I was already here, I didn't confirm that, and so I apologize.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u191	You don't have to come!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u192	Yeah, you don't have to come, but you said you were here!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u193	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u194	Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, we are not now going into a dialogue. The honourable Member raised a question and the clarification was given by the Bureau and the Minister. So we're not going into dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u195	I am requesting the floor for an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u196	Another plea? So, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u197	Madam President, we hope that no parliamentary group will have this decree, which is fundamental to the debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u198	Mr President, that is not an interpellation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u199	Now it will be, Madam President. Exactly because it is essential for the debate, the PSD Parliamentary Group would like to know whether we are all in the same arms equality conditions to continue this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u200	Mr President, as you may imagine, the Bureau is not in a position to answer that question. To present draft resolution No 460 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by reassuring Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim and the PSD Parliamentary Group. I shall speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group on the proposal for a law, without more, so that there is complete equality of arms between all. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You have the same information as I have on the proposal for a law on the amendment to the judicial map. Exactly the same! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] If you would excuse me, I would continue with my speech, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The action of the Government of the Right in the area of justice was a synthesis of troichism in Portugal: cutting the gap in the courts and in the justice service, closing courts or dismoving courts; looking at the centrality of any rudimentary accounting, without taking care of social cohesion and territorial cohesion; acting violently on impoverished communities and territories and leaving them even more impoverished and fragile. The country, after the application of the judicial map, is the country in which the slaughter of courts and justice services was added to the slaughter of health units, schools, post offices, in which, therefore, Portuguese were amputated of public services and social rights. It is the devil in the form of a government programme and action, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. in fact, the Minister of Justice, specialization and concentration may even be organizational principles to be adopted. But to make specialization a concrete impediment to access to justice and to make concentration a practical denial of the public good justice, this is something that, from our point of view, has been and will always be of extreme gravity, and cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u203	That is why we note as very positive some of the changes set out in the bill, here under consideration. That is, the purpose of ensuring the proximity between citizens and justice in part of criminal courts and in the jurisdiction of families and minors; the activation of the chambers of proximity and extinct constituencies, rendering them effective judicial functions, including trial hearings; the review of the competence of the courts of families and minors, either through decoupling, or through the return of competences to the current local courts. We agree with those purposes. This general approach to the bill therefore deserves our agreement. We will see how this applies in specific territorial terms. And here we will be to evaluate this application in particular. But we do not need this application to the specific territory to signal from now on to the Government and this House — and that is the meaning of the draft resolution tabled by this House — that these amendments are, from our point of view, something that is beyond what is necessary to have a judicial map that meets the needs of the universal and effective justice system. In this regard, I note four essential aspects of our draft resolution. First of all, the reactivation of 47 courts that had been closed or converted into proximity sections is very important, but it is not enough, from our point of view, to be completed with the allocation of these courts of general competence in civil or criminal matters. Secondly: the setting of objective criteria for the allocation of this generic competence is, of course, very understandable, indeed necessary but not enough, because territorial equity does not allow situations like the one that is expected to be in the Vouzela court, for which we have been alerted, and that, by a question of quantitative criteria, this court eventually becomes isolated, for example, in the context of Viseu district. Let's hope this isn't the case, we think it wouldn't make sense. Third: adjustments in the jurisdiction of families and minors do not arrive either, it is imperative to open judgements of specialized competence in urban areas where the higher concentration of processes makes it difficult to resolve faster and fairer. And, therefore, in addition to adjustments in families and minors, we understand—and it is also in this sense that our draft resolution goes—that there should be judgments of specialized competence open in the field of work and in the area of executions. Fourth : reactivating courts and territorially adjusting jurisdictions is correct, no doubt none. Calling them judges and not sections, from our point of view, is positive because it reveals a true concern about the image of the judiciary among the populations, of course, yes, but we believe that this does not come and therefore it is necessary to strengthen the corresponding human resources, and that is one of the essential issues that is played on any judicial map. We know that more judicial officials and more judicial officers are needed, it is necessary to look closely at the status and staffing of the courts in matters of prosecutors of the Public Prosecutor's Office or judicial magistrates, and now also, Minister, there is a need for material means, such as transportation cars for judges and officials in the services they will open. In summary, the bill certainly has elements that seem very positive to us and goes in the right direction, but we believe that it is shy in many aspects and that is why the Left Block has presented a draft resolution that seeks to contribute to the debate there is a solution that is more correct, from the point of view of a national justice service that the country lacks. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u204	I would like to take the floor, Madam President, on an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u205	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u206	Madam President, we are at the beginning of this debate with a fact that is serious for parliamentary work. It was clear, not so much because of the delay of the Minister, but because of the reactions of the Government and even because of much elegance, that Mr. José Manuel Pureza put the matter, that there are a number of parliamentary groups who know documents that are part of a legislative process and other parliamentary groups that do not know. In view of this being serious, I just wanted to ask for two things, and one of them is that the Government still brings this document to all parliamentary groups today, which is the proposal for a development decree.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u207	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u208	The PSD that leaves megerics!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u209	The second thing, Madam President, in view of the different and differentiated access by parliamentary groups to government documents, which are important for the legislative process — and are not my words, is that of the Minister — to be serious in a parliamentary democracy is to ask that this matter be discussed at the next Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u210	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u211	And it must not happen what Mr. Secretary of State said without having the microphone connected, which was the following: "Do not expect symmetrical treatment between parliamentary groups! The Bible says: “He does not know what we are doing. ” From fundamental documents to the legislative process, yes, we expect symmetrical behaviors and equality between all! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u212	Mr President, I think your position was clear. In the meantime, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs asked for the floor. I imagine it is to answer Mr.António Leitão Amaro. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u213	Madam President, I am only Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, I am neither a lawyer nor a teacher at the Faculty of Law, as Mr António Leitão Amaro. The supplementary decree is voted on in the Council of Ministers, it does not even have to be sent to Parliament. It may be sent by courtesy to Parliament, but that is not the course that makes a supplementary decree.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u214	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u215	Well, if the question is not that, ask for the floor and clarify the question more clearly, Mrs. The supplementary decree does not have to come to Parliament and obviously exists only when it is approved in the Council of Ministers. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, take it easy. This Government is implementing its Government Programme and has the support of the banks with which it has to work on a daily basis. That is how this government works, and that is also how the previous government worked. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u216	There is no supplementary decree distributed to parliamentary groups, there is permanent work between the Government and the parliamentary groups that support it. Once again: there is no additional decree-law distributed to parliamentary groups, there is still no additional decree-law approved by the Council of Ministers, and therefore Mr.António Leitão Amaro, as a jurist and university professor, was obliged to know what the legislative process is and how it is the relationship of a government with the partners who support it. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u217	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u218	Mr António Leitão Amaro, not wanting to perpetuate this debate, it is important enough to see how far the standards of equality of conditions for the democratic discussion of legislative initiatives go. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u219	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm not going to invoke any academic qualities...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u220	Looks like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u221	... of the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, but he is the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs who takes care of the legislative procedure and therefore knows that the legislative act is the conclusion of a process which weighs various elements and documents. As studies are necessary or important for the last legislative act, there are other documents that are also needed. And, look, it was your minister — unless Mr State Secretary is disauthorising it — who said that there is a document that is essential for the House to understand what we are discussing and that some parliamentary groups know.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u222	They don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u223	I did not say'some'!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u224	I know that the Minister did not say « some». Mrs. Minister, I trust your good faith. Your colleague has probably forgotten that he is not Secretary-General of Management, he is Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs of the Assembly of the Republic. And, therefore, in relation to central documents of the legislative process, whether they are preparatory or definitive documents, studies or projects of development acts, has an obligation to treat all parliamentary groups equally. Asshole, the government has to apologize, let us hope that it will not repeat this inequality of treatment and please treat us as equal, distributing the document that some of us already have. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u225	A request was then made in the appeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u226	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u227	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to perpetuate this issue. Mr António Filipe asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u228	Madam President, I would like to speak in the same way as Mr António Leitão Amaro spoke in the debate, i.e. under an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u229	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u230	Mr President, it is to say very simply that we are discussing a legislative process relating to a proposal for a law whose content, which is not yet decided, will condition any subsequent decree of law, and this is not a legislative authorization law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u231	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u232	Therefore, depending on what is being approved at the end of this legislative process, in which a bill is under discussion, a PCP bill and a draft resolution, of course the Government will have to pass a bill, which, if 10 Members understand it, may be subject to parliamentary review. This decree-law is part of this legislative process. So that the PSD and CDS don't want to discuss the content and prefer to make here a chicana around the way is with them, but obviously that has consequences. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u233	Mr President, with regard to the content of your request to the Bureau, none of this would have happened unless the Minister said that a supplementary decree had been delivered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u234	And that some of you. Ladies and gentlemen have!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u235	This was the origin of this succession of appeals to the Bureau. I now suggest that we continue the debate so that it does not happen what you are complaining about. Mrs Minister for Justice, the Bureau has registered three Mrs. Members to request clarification, the first being Mr Jorge Lacão. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u236	Mr President, Minister for Justice, it is almost thrilling to see this incident and its significance. In 2013 we discussed here the bill submitted by the previous government, which completely refounded a judicial map that had been the subject of broad consensus in the Assembly of the Republic. at that time, neither the government of then and much less the parties of the then majority in the opposition now remembered claiming the previous existence of the regulatory decree, because it never appeared at the time when we discussed the judicial map. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] But you are now suggesting that you cannot participate in equality of arms in this debate because the Minister is willing to inform the House of the possible processes for the realization of this diploma now under consideration. The understanding that regulatory aspects can be made known to parliamentary groups at the stage of the specialty for a better assessment of a set will remain at the discretion of the Minister of Justice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u237	One thing I assume: I am in absolute ignorance of what is the so-called draft regulatory decree and I consider myself in complete equality of arms to discuss this matter with the PSD and CDS benches. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Having said this, Mrs Minister, the purpose of my question is to: we have all been able to follow, in a very positive way, the contribution that has been made to the description of the justice environment in our country. We live today, fortunately, a much quieter environment and much more conducive to dialogue. And that is necessarily the result of the positive judiciary that this Government has been practicing in the sector, but I would like to mention, however, the circumstances of high entities in our country, in particular the President of the Republic, at the recent inaugural ceremony of the judicial year, that they have made a further appeal to the possibility of as broad a consensus as possible in the field of justice and, to this end, have clarified their call for consensus to consider that it would be useful from a sustained dialogue between the various institutional partners of justice and the various representative bodies of the sector. Therefore, what I would like to ask the Minister of Justice is whether this approach, which aims at close justice, efficiency justice, collaborative justice and properly sustained justice, deserves some attention on the part of the Government to promote institutional mechanisms that can promote the development of this consensual climate and the development of this climate of consultation in the field of the various possible reforms of the justice sector. It is already acquired that the bill now presented was the broad result of this consensus and understanding. Mr Minister for Justice, what can we do to further deepen the conditions for consensus and consultation? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u238	The Minister informed the Bureau that she would respond at the end to all three requests for clarification. Therefore, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u239	Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating the Minister of Justice and the Members. State Secretaries. Madam Minister, I shall begin with the matter which gave rise to this previous discussion that we have still had. From now on, I must say that even before the Minister said that she had sent the development decree here, we thought that she should have sent it, she did not send it, but she should have done it because everyone in the media is going to know what the courts are going to open and those that are not opening. It is therefore unfortunate that Members are the last to know, but there is a commitment on the part of this government — I know they come with the usual excuses, and they have already given them here once — to follow the legislation of their regulations. They will tell me that, as a decree from the Government, it does not have to come to the House — they have already answered me once — but the truth is that what people have always understood is that, in such important matters as this, legislation was obviously accompanied by the necessary regulations. Too bad I didn't come. In fact, the Minister had this intention and I am glad that she did, but it is indeed unfortunate that she failed to do so. Moreover, Mrs. Minister, I would like to ask whether the adjustments to the judicial map he presented in May, where a series of questions on the corrections of the judicial map, remain. In other words, I wonder if this document, which is public and which we could consult in May, will keep completely what you intend to make these adjustments and these corrections. Mrs. Minister, they are budgeted about 500 000 € for corrections to the judicial map. Does the Minister assure us that this is enough? How will he do it? Will it be the next State budget? We'd like to hear about this. Finally, another question — and I will reserve a deeper intervention for the end of this debate: the reputation of these new nearby judges, which are not courts, implies the migration of proceedings? If they involve the migration of processes, are all the technical means necessary to this end? Finally, a fourth question in the proposed amendment to Article 87 ( 3 ). the Law No. 62 / 2013, Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System, we can read that « The magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office may perform functions in more than one court, court, section or department(...) ». I was a little curious about this new expression and, as it does not appear during the diploma ever again but to be here, I would like to understand what this is from the department. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u240	In any event, it will be what is envisaged in Article 82. o -A, the new article that is proposed to add to Law No 62 / 2013, and where is the « Conduct of inquiries in municipalities where no court or tribunal is based »? Will these be the departments? Not being, what are these proto-tributaries, so to speak, Minister? Does this mean that, on the limit, there could happen in each municipality, in every place, a sort of court, something that never existed before?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u241	A species!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u242	So I would like to understand, Mrs Minister, what this will be, if this is budgeted and if there is already some forecast for opening up some of these protocols—I don't know what I'm going to call them. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u243	To request clarification, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u244	Mr President, Mrs Minister, this introduction to the debate was excused. That was regrettable. Ms. Minister excused having been denied not only by her Secretary of State but even by the banks supporting the government. He came to disturb the discussion without any need. Madam Minister, welcome to the reform of the judicial map. After all that has been said and a rhetoric which, even in space, has been fed by the Socialist Party’s benches and the extreme left, what we see in the legislative initiative we are now discussing is that there is an unequivocal concern in maintaining the logical thread of reform. The essentiality of the three vectors and the pillars that support the reform of the judicial map that was presented by the previous government remains, I am quoting the explanatory statement of the legislative initiative that brings us here, which only proves that we were right when we wanted to reform the judicial map and that the parties of the extreme left were completely wrong and, now, the Socialist Party Members who have not made the due and competent fault here when they talked about the reform of the judicial map as if it were a kind of return or advance coming from the knights of the apocalypse of justice. It is not true and the Minister of Justice and the initiative we are now discussing proves that. Our reform has already provided adjustments, and adjustments that should be made more or less in time or timing, as it is now said, in which it is being carried out. However, there is a first inconsistencies, which we cannot fail to note here and which is linked to the legislative initiative that the CFP has recently presented. The legislative initiative of the Portuguese Communist Party rejects the Government's proposal by point and point. Those who support that initiative can only be against, and visibly against, the government initiative, a contradiction that we would like to see resolved. I ask myself: will the flag of the judicial map be more one than the PCP, in its path of management, drop? It seems to us that way. Mr. Minister, the statement of reasons has an inexhaustible contradiction to what is the normative body of the proposal before us. In fact, many matters are not contained there, we now realize that they will be contained in the implementing decree, such that some have and others do not. It refers in the explanatory statement to the conversion of the judgments of proximity into local judgments. Question : Where is it and how will it be done? Nothing is said! As for the family court and minors, the breakdown of central sections, how will it be done and where will it be? With regard to the return of competences to local jurisdictions, we do not know! It is referred to in the explanatory statement, but nothing is said. The reactivation of the comarcas where is it? How will it be done? At what time? Mrs. Minister, there is a recognized deficit of justice officers. The former Government made an invitation to tender for more than 600 judicial officers. This reform, this adjustment, which the Minister presents, will have the immediate and inevitable consequence of the increase in this deficit and the need for judicial officers. Mrs. Minister, I ask you directly: in the 2017 Budget, which we are going to discuss, will there be fit for more justice officers? How many and what are we going to do? In conclusion, Mrs. Minister, in March of this year, said justice wanted the moon. For I expressly welcome your return to the earth since what the Minister does was what, in some way, another government, which has been so attacked, could also do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u245	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u246	Madam President, I am not going to comment on the first question because I am taking my time on it, and I have already apologized, but clearly there was a problem at the circuit level. As regards the issue of adjustments, concerning execution sections and the work, I would say that, as I have already had the opportunity to explain, this is a first intervention, and we are aware that there is a need for adjustments in these areas, and we will do so. We don't all do it in one moment just to avoid a big convulsion. Then, on the issue of the pact which has been suggested, in particular by the President of the Republic, it is obvious that the Government, in the area of justice, as I believe, in all areas of sovereignty, has every interest in having the highest consensus. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice has not taken any initiative, but it will certainly welcome all those taken, and it is from our knowledge that there are already some that we will be accompanying and supporting, because we understand that, indeed, the consensus, in the perspective in which the President of the Republic has developed the concept, is essential to the activity that we will have to develop here. With regard to the questions raised here, I limit myself to saying that the departments, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, are the research and criminal action departments that exist in the Statute of the Public Prosecutor as autonomous services. That's all, there's nothing here strictly anymore. On the issue that has raised me about courts per municipality, it is obvious that what is expected is not that there is a court per municipality but, yes, the possibility of performing judicial acts and judgments, just as it happens today, in spaces previously defined by the Ministry of Justice, in places where there are no courts and in specific contexts. That's basically what's at stake. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u247	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Justice, as we know, is a pillar of the rule of law and access to justice is a right our Constitution elects as a fundamental right. In view of the situation of justice in Portugal, which has been dragging for many years and which has been and is marked, above all, by the laxity and where procedural expectations are inundated, the Government is required to undertake, as a fundamental task, the construction of a system of justice that is faster, more efficient and, above all, more accessible to the citizens. Therefore, this government is required not to do what it did, because, in view of the need to build a system of justice faster, more efficient and closer to citizens, the PSD/CDS government did exactly the opposite. It began by increasing judicial costs, denying thousands of citizens access to justice, which is indeed the government's obligation to guarantee, and closing dozens of courts, further removing the justice of citizens, turning justice into a mirage for many people — that is to say no more of what would happen next, when the previous government closed dozens of courts without taking the necessary steps to ensure the normal functioning of the courts and justice. And we all remember the result of that decision, of bringing into force the new judicial map, without precaution of the essentials. We all remember this chaos in the courts and in justice. More: the previous government has imposed an unfair set of criteria for reducing courts in many localities without taking into account the environment in which each of the courts entered, the socio-economic characteristics and even the accessibility and mobility of the populations. The result was, of course, the worsening conditions of Portuguese access to justice, especially those living with more economic difficulties. On the other hand, the previous government closed courts and, by doing so, transferred the procedural volume to other courts, which at the time, before the new judicial map came into force, had already been fully prosecuted and, in many cases, the previous government did not even comply with the criteria it himself defined. I am referring, for example, to the criterion of the procedural volume of less than 250 cases or to the criterion of the court that passed, or passed, to receive the proceedings that differ from the court of origin of less than an hour. Therefore, the previous government did not even comply with the criteria it himself defined. In summary, the previous government has further removed the citizens from justice, especially in regions with the most difficult mobility, and has made justice more expensive, because it is now also necessary to add the costs with travel. Well, this is the scenario that matters to reverse. We therefore follow the initiatives that are currently under discussion precisely because, in some way or another, they all want to redress the injustices that, in terms of access to justice, the previous government has finally created the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u249	Mr José Silvano has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u250	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Justice: This proposal for a law which the Government, here today, presented, contrary to what the Socialist Party and the parties that support the Government, only confirms the kindness and assertivity of the proposal submitted four years ago by the previous Government as it maintains, in its essential features, the vectors of the reform that has been carried out. I would like to state and point out that the acts are worth more than the words, which continue to be included in the current bill, which was for the Government before the cornerstone of reform: specialization—and here I mean that there was an increase of more than 60 %, in view of the previous reality, of specialization, and that specialization came to the interior of the country—, the management by objectives and territorial division. These three principles continue to be part of this bill, which is a good sign, Minister. It is a sign of common sense and political responsibility. The merits of the reform carried out by the previous Government are, in fact, confirmed by the Minister of Justice himself, who recognises in the explanatory statement « virtualities to the logic inherent in the new judicial design, in particular in the area of the installation of the specialized supply at national level », for which the legislative intervention, now under discussion, maintains, according to the Government, « essentially the design of the judicial division of the territory, the areas of specialisation, the management model and its organizational structure », and thus does not change « the defining pillar of the reform operated by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ». This is the clear and unequivocal recognition that the work carried out by the previous Government was of extreme quality and that the criticisms then provoked by the parties that make up the current majority parliament did not have complete justification. [[PSD applause.]] This is proof that the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens were not right when three years ago they fiercely rejected the Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System, because at the time they claimed that it was all wrong, when they could say, and that it was serious, that the proposal as a whole had virtualities and that it would only have a few aspects to correct, what the government does today in this House. [[PSD applause.]] To correct some details was, in fact, what the Government did with this bill, which is a sign of responsibility. Fortunately, the Minister of Justice did not allow herself to be led by the political demagogy revealed by the parties that support the current government and had the wisdom to realize that, in such a structuring matter as this one of the organisation of the judicial system, one cannot proceed to undo what has already been good for the country. I would also like to add that this bill today under discussion corresponds, so, and using the terminology used by the Minister of Justice at the regimental hearing in 1. the Commission, in May this year, to a'minimum programme', because only some improvements are introduced with the aim of bringing the justice of its recipients closer to citizens in two key segments: crime and family and minors. We agree that, in view of the assessment made of the application of the law, corrections and improvements are introduced. In fact, this was planned at the beginning of the adoption of the law governing the judicial organization. in this sense, the proposed amendments are acceptable to us, and in view of the assessment that was made in close cooperation with the Superior Councils, with the Order of Advocates, with the union associations representative of the forensic professions and with the municipalities, we could also have reached the same conclusion, in fact, this was envisaged in Article 90. or the law. We have always been open and receptive to this and that is why a provision has been introduced in the law for its monitoring, with the main aim of introducing, where appropriate, amendments that would prove relevant and indispensable. Contrary to the position taken in the past by the parties that support the government, we have the sense of responsibility and we know that when the essence of the spirit of the law is maintained some changes may eventually be introduced. The courts closed and the sections of proximity will no longer have, as was previously proposed by the Socialist Party and is now expressly proposed by the PCP and the Block of Left, generic competence. The proposed law now under consideration was limited to allowing, in these jurisdictions, the mandatory conduct of criminal trials in the singular court and the practice of procedural acts in the context of civil trials, in particular through the use of electronic means of communication at a distance. Having arrived here, it should be noted that the amendments referred to or understood in the explanatory statement of this bill, such as the reactivation of the extinct constituencies, the unfolding of the current central sections of families and minors and the conversion of proximity sections into local courts, are not implemented on this initiative, as we discussed here at the outset, because such regulatory document that did not arrive to us is missing, such an implementing decree. Only in the regulation to be adopted within the next 60 days will we be sure of which re-activated constituencies and what will be the powers referred to herein. Once again, we are discussing the changes without having them realized. from there the importance of the decree that has not been handed over to us. The finding stated here is referred to by the opinion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, which reserves its definitive opinion on this proposal for a law for the publication of the regulation in question, since this will be the diploma that will carry out such changes and will define the regime applicable to the organization, operation and distribution of the court territory. We therefore have a number of promises which the Government has already announced publicly and which are now found to be postponed until they are implemented by decree of implementation of those promises which have been made in the meantime. On the other hand, it is a typical matrix of this government to reverse—in this particular case, to reverse very little—but we will only know how to achieve it within a few months.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u251	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u252	What the government wants to say today is that it will revert; then, in particular, we will soon see what will happen. In conclusion, the current bill is nothing more than compliance with the law of the previous government, which also had a legal standard that envisaged the possibility of making such changes, which proves that we are before an announcement and not a real and concrete amendment to the law of reform of the judicial system. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u253	Having no record of requests for clarification, I give the floor to Mr Filipe Neto Brandão for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u254	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, in the X Legislation, then Minister of Justice Alberto Costa, went up to this same forum to present the proposal that would give rise to the Law on the Organization and Operation of the Judicial Courts, Law No 52 / 2008, did so to propose a new model of territorial organization of the judicial districts which, although phased forward, would reduce the then 231 districts to 39, with the virtue of no disrespect from there emerges judicial districts that coincide with the plan regions, thus ending a judicial organization chronically inconsistent with that of the other services and functions of the State. In a recurrent failure of planning, we agreed it wasn't a matter of mere things. It follows that this proposed new organization and specialization was also accompanied by the concern not to close any court, which is guaranteed through the forecast of judges to be able to « carry out functions in more than one judgment of the same region ». It is said, because it is strictly true, that Alberto Costa mentioned in this parliamentary debate that, even if there is already anyone who then defends the « close of 100 or 150 courts», the government guarantees the maintenance of all. The PSD, however, then said—it goes away! — it is not sufficient to provide this political guarantee, requiring it to be incorporated into the text of the proposal itself, i.e. the law required that all courts should be'maintained and therefore not closed'. Enthusiastly applauded by his bench, the speaker of the intervening PSD was bleeding against the mere hypothesis of closure of a single court, saying that the PSD refused to compromise, and I quote, « with a policy of abandonment of the territory». History would record that the same bench—and, in some cases, the same honourable Members—who yesterday applauded those who said they refused to close any closures, would applaud, with the same enthusiasm, the Minister of Justice who, in the previous legislature, announced that he would proceed to the closure not of one but of two dozen courts. when announcing that all the jurisdictions that had been extinguished by the previous government will reopen and that, in all of them, court hearings will take place, injunctively and not merely optionally, and there will be judicial acts, this government honours an undertaking assumed and always reaffirmed by the PS : it is possible to operate a rationalization of the judicial map, enhancing the management of its resources, without affecting the municipalities of the interior the closure of its courts. We have always said it and proved it today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u255	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u256	It is known that the previous majority intended to take forward an organizational model of justice which only agreed within its perimeter, removing, including, what has become formed in the Memorandum of Understanding of May 2011, and without taking care to obtain a broader support that would extravagate the scope of this conjuncural majority. It would therefore be legitimate today for the government to opt for different models. It would be legitimate, however, also very likely to generate serious disturbances in the functioning of a system that we wish to see stabilized, and whose stability we would, in fact, be able to achieve. The truth is that, strictly discounted, the period when the CIT1US collapsed, the September 2014 reform has since been operating on the ground and making an effort system subject to a new blow would put it in the face of an unbearable tension. In the name of the desirable stability of legislative options for structural effects and in an effort to consensualize, thus, essentially, the design of the judicial division already implemented, the areas of specialization, as well as the management model and its organic structure, correcting the entropies revealed by the excessive extension, in many cases, of the territorial base of the jurisdictions of families and minors and thus the unnecessary withdrawal of criminal justice. They are therefore corrections and adjustments aimed at strengthening proximity in two segments which are mostly recognized as fundamental, in a movement which the generality of judicial operators welcomes, among others publicly, Mr. President of the Supreme Court referred to in recent intervention at the opening ceremony of the judicial year. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The constitutional guarantee of access to the right is not exhausted by the prohibition of discrimination due to insufficient economic means. in fact, it is also fulfilled through the guarantee of proximity. With this proposal, justice will be closer to many thousands of our citizens. He reminded us of the philosopher Antonio Castanheira Neves, in a paraphrase to Hannah Arendt's conclusive eloquence, that today the last and truly fundamental human right is after all « the right to right ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u257	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u258	It is about this trail that we want to walk today. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u259	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u260	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr.Minister, I wanted to begin by saying that the CDS gives the benefit of doubt to this bill, because it generally seems to comply with or enforce the structural lines of the reform that was known for reform of the judicial map operated in 2013: the specialization, the management model and the territorial structure. So, there seems to be some minor adjustments and corrections here, which were generally also the adjustments and corrections that the previous government, with the follow-up of the reform, had already identified, particularly in the most critical areas such as juvenile and family jurisdiction and criminal jurisdiction. So there is nothing to be opposed to this. Moreover, if we see the reports from the districts, we also realize that these are the main areas in which the most problematic issues are concerned. However, what I would like to say here, Mrs Minister, is that it cannot be sold, as you have tried and tried — and you have tried to do so recently — that the 20 courts that were closed by the previous government will be reopened, because they will not be reopened. This is very clear! It is not worth saying that these courts will be reopened when they become mere sections of proximity—neighbourly judges, as they now want to call it, but it is precisely the same thing. Therefore, it is good not to sell this, not to deceive the populations. They won't reopen courts! They're going to be proximity sections, where you can practice some acts. It's true! I am glad, too, that some more acts should be practiced in these places, but the courts will not be reopened. In fact, it is here to say what Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão said about the proximity sections in 2013...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u261	This part is very important!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u262	... and I quote only one party not to have to read everything and not to mix them with it: « The title of the exercise of the judicial function is not assigned to the proximity sections, i.e. they are not courts». And now it's the same, because they do exactly the same things! It was also before that it was possible to make judgments and to inquire into witnesses. It's exactly the same thing. Therefore, it is not worth saying « we will reopen courts», because that is to deceive people and, with that, we do not compact. We are pleased that this correction is made to the reform of the judicial map, because it is a correction that we would also do, but we do not think it right to say that courts will be reopened, and against that we will always fight, because it is not true. [[PCP protests.]] But it is true that we were right because, if we were not right, the Minister would have made a real revolution on the judicial map and the truth is that she does not. Therefore, the reason for the former Government. What is more, and to finish, because I'm about to exceed the time I had, I would just like to tell you, Mrs Minister, that there are some risks and some dangers here, and they are identified by several bodies. I highlight only three of them, very quickly, the first of which is the risk of specialization. Watch out! With so many developments—and when the final decree comes, we will see what they are—that they are not lost, but we need to be careful about this. Secondly, be careful with the movements of the judges, so that they do not lose in effect. Finally, the most important and what I have always mentioned every time we find ourselves, Minister, is the lack of judicial officials.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u263	I can't believe it! So the CDS-PP didn't let that work out? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u264	It is unanimous throughout the whole class, throughout the judicial system, that without judicial officials it is not possible for this reform to advance and, moreover, it is not possible for justice to have a good performance. Therefore, it is important that there is no need for employees. at this time, Mrs. Minister, there are those who say that there are already 2000 judicial officials missing, and within the limit, even if we are not talking about 2000, there will be 1000. It's a lot, Mrs. Minister, it can't be! And resolving this with camera officials is not worth it either, Mrs. Minister. In addition to having many doubts about the constitutionality of this situation, I do not think it is possible to resolve it with the officials of the chambers. In fact, the CFP must oppose this — I hope — that Chamber officials will replace judicial officials.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u265	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u266	Madam Member, if I were ashamed, I wasn't doing this!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u267	I hope the CFP is consistent. Now that they're so quiet, at least they're consistent. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u268	They ended the staff vacancies in the paintings, not to notice the lack, and now comes here with an intervention of these? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u269	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u270	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Understandably, the PSD and CDS benches come to this debate to do an operation of, subsequently, trying to save the reform of the judicial map that was operated by the previous government. But let's get rid of them, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! in fact, the reform that has been carried out in the previous government has had considerable differences in what we are discussing here today. First of all, a difference in procedure. The reform that was done by the previous government was a reform against everything and against everyone, we know it! Many of the people who today come to defend here a great pact on justice, at the time, clearly defended a confrontation in the area of justice. Let us not be deceived, therefore, because we are talking about different things. But secondly, there is also a difference in substance, there is a difference in politics. It is that the reform that you have made has not taken care of at least issues of equity and territorial and social justice. What we are discussing here today is exactly that, is the need for a judicial map that meets the criteria of territorial and social justice. That's exactly the difference. We would be wrong, we would be very bad if you could ever be right. And that is exactly what gives reason to be the draft resolution we have tabled. It is that we really want to go further than what is presented here by the government. In line with the guidelines of the Government's bill, understanding that they are in the right direction, we want more. We really want more on behalf of a public service of justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u271	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u272	That is why we want the reopening of the courts to be accompanied, where possible, by the allocation of generic competence. This must be done in this way! Wherever possible, there is decongestion of procedural areas where congestion, especially in large urban areas, is causing delays and is causing a denial of access to justice, in practical terms, by many citizens. Finally, and I do not see, indeed, the right-wing benches, even having authority to speak about this matter, there is a need for real material and human means for this adjustment that is presented to us in the bill to be able to reverse this situation. We need consensus on this, and I hope that there really will be the consensus that you are now praising so much, so that it will translate into effective support for more human and material means for our courts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u273	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u274	I am very convinced that, after your consensual language, you will support all proposals that appear so that there are more material and human means for the courts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u275	No, they're going to vote against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u276	Mr António Filipe also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u277	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This debate is indeed very interesting, and it has become even more interesting after the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS have announced that they will vote in favour of the bill. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u278	You didn't hear well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u279	At least, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what I realized. It's just, if you guys are. Members have come here to say that this bill maintains the essential vectors of the reform of the judicial map of the previous government and that you were even thinking about proposing these amendments, but that they had no time and are no longer in the government, to be more basic coherence obliges them to vote in favour of the proposed law of the government,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u280	... voting against the PCP bill. But we were already expecting that, it was predictable, and if they vote in favour of the Government's bill there is no harm to the Republic, because it only enriches the debate in the specialty, particularly if there is a constructive position on the part of the parties on the right, which is, in fact, what we expect. Your speeches, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS only demonstrate how far the reform made by the previous government has been contested and is totally isolated. It is only by now that even the Members who voted in favour of it stand up for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u281	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u282	And at the time when the so-called reform of the century, which closed up 20 courts and degraded more 27, considering - the proximity sections, is completely done in cassia in this House, Mr. Members come to say: "No, no, this, after all, will be all the same." Mrs Vania Dias da Silva even goes to the point of saying that the courts that will be reopened will not reopen, they will continue to be closed. I want to know how the honourable Member will continue to tell people that the courts are closed when people go there and see the trials taking place.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u283	Just like they existed before, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u284	But, finally, that statement will be with you. Well, you come to say that the great contradiction that exists is between the Government's bill and the PCP bill. They are, in fact, different, we assume that they are, in fact, different, but they are starting points for a discussion on the specialty that we are going to make and for which you will also be important. But you also say that the essential vectors stand still.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u285	It's written!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u286	I am going to tell you vectors that will certainly not stay, because there are essential differences between what is being built here today in this House and that has been destroyed in the previous legislature. This is the starting point for this debate, and it is important. Sever do Vouga, Penela, Portel, Monchique,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u287	That's what we don't know! You know what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u288	... Meda, Furnaces de Algodres, Bomberral, Cadaval, Castelo de Vide, Ferreira do Zezere, Mação, Sines, Paredes de Coura, Boticas, Murça, Messão Frio, Sabrosa, Armamar, Resende, Tabuaço — to all these municipalities, who have seen their courts close, you will say there that everything will continue in the same, when people see the trials running and coming to the reopened courts. [[PCP and PS applause.]] But more: Northeast, Population, Mertola, Customs of the Faith, Ansian Carrazed, Miranda do Douro, Vimioso, Vinhais, Penamacor, Soure, Mira, Pampilhosa da Serra, Arraiolos, Sabugal, Ansion, Alvaiázere, São Vicente, Avis, Nisa, Alcanena, Golegã, Alcácer do Sal, Mondim de Basto, Castro Daire, Oliveira de Frades and Vouzela are nearby sections that will return to court.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u289	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u290	Therefore, in these 47 fundamental differences with regard to the reform that you have made and in which the PCP project and the Government's bill converges, you go there, to the lands, saying that everything will remain the same, because the reform of the judicial map was excellent and will continue. [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u291	People don't let themselves be deceived like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u292	To close the debate, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u293	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As for the first question, I went to 1. the Commission and there said everything, I showed everything and committed myself to continuing to show. So, today, effectively, there was a lapse. There's no intention of hiding anything. I have always fulfilled my commitments and therefore there is no reason for this agitation. I wanted to tell them the following : The government has indeed respected what are the essential axes of the 2014 reform, which are indeed the same axes as those already mentioned in the 2008 reform. This is a statement I make here...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u294	You're listening, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u295	Listen, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u296	Let me keep talking! Please, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please let me continue. As I was saying, this is a statement I make here, but I want to point out that this does not mean that the path of deepening asymmetries in access to justice has not changed for the 2014 reform to lead us. It is that the 2014 reform, irrespective of the merits that can be identified and identified, has incured errors, execution errors and design errors.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u297	Like all reforms!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u298	Errors, because he left a self-referential short circuit, which ignored and abandoned, without any evaluation, a draft reform of the map that was under way, without knowing the demerits or identifying its virtues. Errors, because, by resizing the jurisdictions, he did not accept any reference with judicial tradition or opted for a model of conciliation or sense of evolution of the spatial planning. The districts, already wounded by death, were resurrected for the design of the districts. Errors, because he did not take due account of the people and the symbolic dimension of the courts in his life,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u299	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u300	...in stabilizing their expectations for peace, justice and security. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no correction of one error in another. It would be very bad if the central axes of the reform were changed now, because this would put the stability of the functioning of the whole system in crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u301	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u302	And that is why we carry out a corrective action, a corrective correction, approaching family justice and minors 850 000 citizens and criminal justice 240 000 citizens, without ever abdicating criteria of economic rationality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government is aware of the difficulties and does not ignore the sacrifices that are being asked of its judicial officers, but believes that there is a need to redress injustice by asking these professionals to share their sacrifices with the people who, over these two years, have had to travel long distances to get to the courts. However, I remember that 13 of the extinct courts and 12 of the current proximity sections were already operating in aggregation...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u303	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u304	... and I note that the process of unlocking the careers of judicial officers has begun to allow the opening of competitive procedures for recruiting new effectives. when taking this initiative, the Government is concerned with the realization of the mission to ensure a society of choices and a society of equal, in which there is an effective margin of choice for all individuals, regardless of the portion of the national territory in which they live. It is because the Government believes, and I think today there has been a huge consensus in this area, that the citizens of Sever do Vouga, Penela, Portel, Monchique, Meda, Furnos de Algodres, Bombarmural, Cadaval, Castelo de Vide, Ferreira do Zêzere, Mação, Sines, Paredes de Cura, Boticas, Murça, Mesão Frio, Sabrosa, Armamar, Resende and Tabuaço have, like the other citizens of this country, the right to a nearby justice, thereby realizing the constitutional guarantee of effective judicial protection. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-28.u305	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when there are no more speeches, we say goodbye to the Minister of Justice, to the Under-Secretary of State and Justice and to the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, thus completing our work today. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: the first item will be filled with political statements. of the second point is the joint discussion of petition No 551 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by the Commission of Health Users of the Medium Tejo, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures to enable the organization of health care in the Hospital Center of the Medium Tejo and draft resolutions 153 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Access to Health Care at the Midwest Hospital Centre ( PS ), 269 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — For a management at the service of the populations of the Midwest Hospital Centre Tejo ( The Greens), 320 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of various measures with a view to the proper functioning of the Centre Hospitalar do Médio Tejo, EPE ( CDS-PP ) and 319 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Access to health care provided at the Tejo Hospital Centre ( PSD ). of the third point is the joint discussion of petition No 61 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Submitted by the Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the Second School of Trucks, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to rehabilitate and requalify the Liceu Camões and draft resolutions 157 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of the Second Truck School in Lisbon ( The Greens ), 475 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Start of retraining works at the secondary school of trucks in the school year 2016 / 2017 ( PCP ) and 480 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Second Truck School ( BE ). The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 38 minutes.]]
