ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Our agenda today will be completed with the debate on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. First, however, I shall give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary of the Bureau, to read the file. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Bureau entered and were admitted, draft resolutions Nos 266 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen access to health care in Vila Nova de Famalíão ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 268 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Changes in the tracing of the extension of A32 and immediate lifting of current conditionants ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 269 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — For management at the service of the populations of the Middle Tejo Hospital Centre ( The Greens ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 270 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reopening of the Moscow Employment Centre / Sacavém, in the municipality of Loures ( The Greens ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 271 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Stability Programme 2016 - 2020 and national reform plan ( CDS-PP ), 272 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates at A4 ( BE ), 273 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates in A24 ( BE ) and 274 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates in A25 ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u3	We went to the debate on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. Therefore, we will discuss jointly draft resolutions 221 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures promoting corporate capitalisation and diversification of its sources of financing ( PSD ), 230 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to improve the qualification of Portuguese ( PSD ), 244 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of a set of measures promoting the exploitation of the territory ( PSD ), 251 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures promoting innovation in the economy ( PSD ), 260 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include in the National Reform Programme a set of measures in the area of justice ( PSD ), 262 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to strengthen social cohesion and equality ( PSD ), 263 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — By a National Service of Sustainable Health, with quality health care and equity in access, better health promotion and more disease prevention ( PSD ), 265 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the national reform plan, introduce a set of amendments to maintain a path of economic growth and employment ( CDS-PP ) and 271 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Stability Programme 2016 - 2020 and national reform plan ( CDS-PP ). To open the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme form a genuine country development strategy. These are important documents, in particular in this case the first of the legislature. The Government sees this planning process as a central element in the definition of public policies, printing a new dynamic to a process previously seen only as an administrative response to European recommendations. This is, in our view, a very important document politically, because it incorporates a vision that makes a difference with the strategy pursued in recent years. Portugal needs more growth, better employment, greater equality. The National Reform Programme sets out ways to build them. An ambitious program, built to look up, to define where we want to get and the way to achieve it. We are starting from a difficult situation. in recent years, GDP has suffered a sharp fall, family income has been reduced, investment levels have fallen to historically low values. Portugal maintains a structural external positioning problem at the exit of this economic and social crisis: we need to increase the weight of exports with high added value, which is still more than four times less than the European average. We need to increase investment in research and development ( R & D ). [[P.S.'s applause.]] The lack of qualifications limits the competitiveness of the economy: more than half of adults have not completed secondary education and school failure levels remain frighteningly high ( 35 % of 15-year-olds have already been retained at least once, compared with an average of 13 % in OECD countries ). Despite some progress, the high level of indebtedness of companies weakens their competitive position and hinders the development of their investment projects. Deinvestment in science broke the consolidation cycle of the National Scientific System and business innovation, affecting the modernization of the economy and its competitive position on a global scale. The last four years have also been marked by the worsening social inequalities and poverty. The National Reform Programme responds to these challenges. Still the problem of the qualification deficit, betting on education and inclusive public school, universalizing pre-school education for all children from three years of age. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I bet on the vocational education of young people, but I refuse to refuse the early dualization of training courses, which the previous government intended to implement, and which limited the horizons of young people only 11 or 12 years old, making it difficult to return and permeabilize school courses. We will also resume investment in adult training, which have been forgotten in the previous legislation, thus promoting their professional integration, the strengthening of qualifications and their contribution to improving the country's productivity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The future of the country passes through an economy based on knowledge and science, with greater innovation and more qualified human resources. We will strengthen support for investment in research and development, creating conditions for having a more competitive and integrated economy in global markets. We also need to make better use of the resources of our country, valuing the territories, strengthening their connectivity and attractiveness and efficiently exploiting their resources. We do not agree to have one of the most unequal countries in Europe and, above all, the worsening levels of inequality in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thus, we started the replacement of incomes of families and social minimums, which had been cut off by the previous government, and we will continue the policies that, by maintaining the sustainability of public accounts, contribute to the improvement of the economic situation of families and strengthen access to essential goods and services, especially in education and health. Modernizing the state, for us, does not mean creating a minimum state, with poor public services, which does not respond to the needs of the population. It means creating a better, capable, competent and speedy state. We will modernise the state to bring citizens and businesses closer together, so that the state is at the service of people and competitiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the National Reform Programme, we identified more than 140 concrete measures, all calendarled, quantified and budgeted, representing a total investment of about 25 billion, more than half financed by Portugal 2020. contrary to what happened to the previous government, we launched a broad discussion of the National Reform Programme, which allowed us to collect numerous contributions from the most diverse entities throughout the country, many of which were incorporated into the document and integrating the strategy to develop. in a broad consultation with civil society, we have obtained contributions from the social partners—with whom we will meet again tomorrow for the second time to discuss this matter — from the regional governments, authorities, local and sectoral grassroots organisations, the Territorial Convergence Council, organizations, universities, policymakers, many actors involved in the qualification sector. We have heard proposals from technological centres, public agencies, companies and business associations and many other civil society entities. We have also obtained the contribution of the political parties, with whom we are discussing the National Reform Programme in an extensive manner here in Parliament. The Ministers here are represented who, with this House, in many debates, discussed the main pillars of the document now under discussion during April. We also welcome the attitude of the PSD, which has moved to a seemingly different phase, although with due regard to the speech they made at the height of April 25. But it seems to begin to want to put forward proposals, some of which we welcome in the National Reform Programme. The National Reform Programme we are now discussing in this House is a document that presents a coherent strategy, maximizing the use of European funds for the implementation of a country's development strategy, articulates sectoral policies and considers the different territorial scales — central, regional and local — in which policies are articulated and implemented. An integrated development strategy that will enable us to achieve more growth, better employment and greater equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u5	Seven honourable Members have signed up to request clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Miguel Morgano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u6	Mr President, Minister, we are in a somewhat strange debate because not even the titles are right against the substance of things: there is a National Reform Programme that has no reforms and a Stability Programme that is only a promise of instability. The National Reform Programme is nothing more than a new programming of the normal flow of European funds — it must be said — with less rigor and less strategic vision than the programming that had been made in the previous government. We must not forget that in the last 30 years, the country's problem was not so much about the implementation of the funds but the quality of the implementation. And as for these guarantees, which we put in the previous government, we have no sign. You devalue the National Reform Programme by simply not including the impact of these measures, which are contained in this Programme, on growth prospects. The Minister has told us about more growth and more employment. I am sorry, but you will have to read again the stability programme that your Government has submitted, because the growth prospects we have are mediocre. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u7	After all, the turn of page, the supposed turn of page only brought to the country less growth perspective and less job perspective. That is why there is an inexhaustible contradiction between what I said recently and the document that the Government has submitted and which binds the country. The part of the Stability Programme, which apparently did not go through the government's propaganda crisis, without ambiguities, to the growth of 2015, the structural change of the Portuguese economy in recent years, which you just denied — once again, there is a contradiction between what you said and the documents that bind the country. More: commend the effects on the growth prospects of structural reforms, which you are reverting. This is an absolutely unsanitary contradiction. Why did I say that the Stability Programme is a promise of instability? the mere fact that the budgetary variables are not at least substantiated. And that represents a huge risk to the country. Moreover, when they are not grounded, they are simply manipulated. I'll give you an example. It must be borne in mind that the tax burden, in fact, with this government, has always become a tax burden. As I was saying, you certainly remember the intervention of a member of the Socialist Party who recognized that the tax burden in the State budget — when the discussion of the draft and, after that, the State budget — even went up. The State budget report says that the tax burden remains. Now, in the numbers of the Stability Programme, there is a reduction in the tax burden at 0, 2 — it appears in the main table. however, when we make the sum of these plots, the numbers are not exactly those. But there is 0, 3 of GDP that simply disappears is 0, 3 of GDP in relation to the social contributions that make the difference between being able - it is said that the tax burden has decreased, as you mean, and the reality of the facts that the tax burden is increasing in 2016. So, Minister, what I ask is that the government correct itself before reality corrects it, because when reality corrects the government it is the Portuguese they pay, and that is what we must avoid at all costs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u8	Mrs. Members, as is customary in these debates, the timing of interventions will be discounted in the overall time allocated to parliamentary groups, so the Bureau will not interfere in this management. The Bureau was informed by the Government that the Minister will first respond to a group of three requests for clarification and then to a second group of four requests for clarification. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Heitor Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u9	Mr President, Minister, the Left Block has been part of a majority whose key short-term strategic objective has been to promote the recovery of Portuguese and Portuguese incomes. Within this objective, what is absolutely decisive, also from a strategic point of view, is that this recovery of income is supported by the creation of employment with rights and the creation of a process of growth and sustainable economic and social development in the medium and long term and that allows not only sustained recovery of income but also the correction of economic, social and territorial inequalities in Portuguese space.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u11	from this point of view, the State is an essential lever for the correction of these imbalances, based on the promotion of a public investment policy that not only creates the conditions for the investment of the economy as a whole but also develops the correction of the aspects of the social state which still needs to correct and develop. And in these social aspects of the State that needs to be corrected there is public investment in transport infrastructure. The Government in the CFP in this chapter presents two dimensions of the problem, which is worth stressing here to make its own questions. One relates to the financial rebalancing process that private dealers and sub-contractors have systematically invoked over the years to try to transfer to the State the financial risks associated with any investment project. What the Government tells us is that these procedures for the replacement of the financial rebalancing of these concessions are under way, a large part of them have already been rejected, but there are still some who are in progress and need to be decided in terms of arbitral tribunal. What is the Government's expectation of the renegotiating process of financial rebalancing which dealers and sub-negotiators have invoked in all sectors where PPPs exist (public-private partnerships), not only in the transport infrastructure sector but also in health and safety? The second question I want to raise is the ongoing renegotiation of public-private road partnerships. It is already known that what the previous government, the PSD and CDS invoked in this matter was a real ambush,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u12	Emboste is your position now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u13	... since savings were reduced to 10 % of what was publicly announced, but there are still six road PPP processes in the renegotiation phase. What is the government's expectation of these renegotiating processes? We would like to see if it is possible to accommodate more significant savings than the previous government has done until, I believe, the political assumptions of these renegotiation processes are substantially different from those that the government previously put on the ground. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u14	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u15	Mr President, Minister, the appreciation of work and workers is a central axis for the development of the country. The replacement and return of everything that has been withdrawn is very important, but it is important to move forward and go further in guaranteeing rights for all workers. The recovery, defense and conquest of fundamental rights at work and in life are indispensable for a better life and a more just country. There is no economic and social development without a fairer distribution of wealth and without valuing living and working conditions. It is therefore essential that the firm and decisive fight against precariousness be combated so that a permanent job corresponds to an effective bond. The increase in pensions, wages and, in particular, the national minimum wage, the defence of collective bargaining and the replacement of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker as a guarantee of civilizational achievements of working hours, wages, the link between family, personal and professional life. Mr Minister, the fulfilment of the social functions of the State and the existence of quality public services require adequate numbers of workers respected and valued in their rights. With regard to the employees of the Public Administration, we would like to reaffirm concerns that we have come to point out and that, for us, they are significant. Today, in our country, the serious shortage of professionals is felt in all public administration services, schools, health units, courts, social security services. In addition, it is more necessary to ensure that these professionals are valued through wage increases, defrosting career progression, social and labor valuation of their functions, from 35 hours a week for all, as soon as possible. on the part of the CFP, Minister, we would like to reaffirm that for us the development of the country demands and is intrinsic to the necessity of valuing work and workers. This is our commitment, it is for him that we are working for a more just and developed country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u16	In reply, Mr President, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u17	Mr President, Mr Miguel Morgado has in some way begun to present us with a prospect that we have mediocre economic growth, less economic growth. Mr President, I would say that you have to understand, because in a few days the PSD speaks in unrealistic optimism, in others accuses us of mediocre growth. Agreed that they would understand your political line of action. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As I have already said, and even today it has been published, in a few days, some have accused us of optimism, you, in other days — sometimes on Tuesday, some on Monday — say different things, but there they are speaking prudently. We don't care if we're accused of being cautious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u18	It's not prudent, before it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u19	These macroeconomic forecasts, yes, are prudent. And we have wisely chosen to keep the potential of the reforms that we propose here in order to preserve all the effect on GDP, because this is how prudent macroeconomic forecasts are made, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we do not mind, therefore, that it is clear that these macroeconomic forecasts are prudent. But above all, we have an ambitious and different economic development strategy than has been implemented in recent years. A country that now wants to look up. A country that doesn't want to align below. A country that wants to qualify its resources, qualify its human resources, support children, combat failure, do not leave behind the adult population. A country that wants to qualify its companies through innovation systems. A country that wants to value all its territory, also the interior, that does not want to leave an important part of the country behind! These are structural reforms, Mr President, they are different from yours, which align the country below with its view of international competitiveness. [[PSD protests.]] They are different, but it is a rather ambitious economic strategy. It's different, but it's different for better! It is an alternative that has already been shown to be possible, which is feasible, which has been manifested in the State Budget. It is an alternative that restores income, but it is a responsible and ambitious alternative for economic growth. Mr Heitor Sousa, with regard to the rebalancing of concessions, we will, of course, maintain, as our obligation is, a demanding perspective in the negotiation with the dealers, with the entities with whom we have these contracts. The requirement that we maintain is the one that obliges us to an intransigent defense of the public interest. These processes will know their normal developments, but on the part of the State will find a demanding position in each of them. with regard to the renegotiation of PPPs, in addition to the propaganda of EUR 7 billion, which was, after all, EUR 700 million in savings, Mr. Deputies, what I can say is that in 2016 we will be bet on completing the negotiation processes that were under way and that were not completed, regarding concessions where important works are concerned for the populations. We are concerned about the completion of the works on national road No 125, the possibility of doing works in the IC1, for example, but for this to happen we must conclude negotiations with the concessionaires. Mrs Rita Rato, we are aligned with the importance of valuing work, valuing work in the private sector, but also in the Public Administration. Starting from there, the modernization of the state, for us, is no less state, it is better state, and this, of course, also means decent working conditions for the workers of the Public Administration. It is to begin the fight against precariousness also by the Public Administration, of course. It is also done in the private sector. It is to value collective bargaining and, as we seek to demonstrate in the National Reform Programme, to be able to present here, in Portugal, but also in Europe, because it is important to understand, that in Portugal there is room for adaptability of companies, there is space for the competitiveness of companies, with decent work relations, relations that value work and through this emigration that we have had in recent years. Even so, our companies can be competitive because they will have more skilled and more committed to the development of their jobs and jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u20	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Hortense Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, in fact, the country has again had a strategy, which it did not have a few years ago,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u22	All right! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u23	...because I've been sailing for years to the taste of events. That's exactly how it was. In fact, this strategy is fundamental. The country needs a path that is the bet on growth, job recovery and has social and territorial cohesion. These are the essential development factors. The country needs a path that resumes its commitment to investment and innovation and also to the qualification of Portuguese people, because without it we cannot have another investment. But we left a very difficult stadium. In fact, the previous recipe made the Portuguese pay, as Mr. Miguel Morgano said, and the Portuguese for four years. They paid with the impoverishment strategy that caused them to suffer during these four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Moreover, GDP has declined, investment has declined and, of course, we have reached levels of unemployment that we have never seen. Mr Minister, we are committed to the need of this National Reform Programme, in conjunction with the Stability Programme, fulfilling both internal and external commitments which the Government has and which the supporting parties also have. In fact, there is a big difference here. I ask the Minister : what structural change was made in the Portuguese economy when, after all, what happened was that it continued, in a tender way, but this was the companies that made, with an export bet, but we found that exports with added value were not distinguished at all, as well referred to, and this must also be the government's bet. In other words, the bet on exports did not distinguish value-added exports from those with a large imported component, speaking only in exports and, in practice, the result was null to the Portuguese. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, exports with value added must be distinguished and also sectors that can support import substitution. I ask you, Minister: how was it that you were dealing with the funds? Portugal 2020 is necessarily the privileged instrument for this growth to be made. I remember that the starting point was 4 million. How many projects? For 15 projects, Minister? Oh, my God! Were those 15 projects we had? Oh, my God! Now, is it EUR 150 million for 1400 projects? Oh, my God! Mr President, I also believe that the funds have to be set aside for simplification. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen. Members do not know that the funds were associated with a huge complexity that made companies often unable to compete? This complexity is in fact an obstacle to the development of companies and to the growth bet. Mr Minister, in fact, the Government has a strategy, which we encourage the Government to continue, so that it goes from such a 'complex' to'simplex', because the Portuguese need, our economy needs. That is why we can only bet that this is a reality, a reality that the government is committed to making a practice, because the Minister yesterday in the Commission has announced results. Minister, I was asking you to do this here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u24	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the floor to Mrs Cecilia Meireles, to request clarification, I would ask the Members. Ladies and gentlemen standing and back for the Bureau to speak out or to sit down. You have the floor, Mrs. Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u25	Mr President, Minister, I have been listening carefully to this debate and I believe that there is something important, from my point of view, and that has not yet been spoken. It is true that the debates are important, they are noble, but we have not only been elected to debate, we have been elected, above all, to choose and answer for our choices before the voters. [[All right!]] [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u26	So, Minister, the question I have to ask you, in a very sudden and direct manner, is the following: if you are so convinced of your National Reform Programme and the Government's Stability Programme, why don't you take them to vote? Well, if Mr. Minister believes that all the reforms he has tabled from that pulpit are the path of growth to Portugal, if, as Mrs. Hortense Martins said, this is the strategy, this is the strategy of the next four years, then we are here today discussing the great strategy for the next four years and we do not vote on it? Oh, my God! We didn't pick her? Oh, my God! What are we afraid of? Oh, my God! Why don't we vote for it? Oh, my God! If you believe in your forecasts, take them to vote! Let's vote! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u27	Mr Minister, there is something I do not want, nor can I believe, that we are here today to make a show, a show that allows the government to say that it believes, but does not take votes, and also the existence of parties. I must tell you, Mr Minister, that in Parliaments — not only in this but in almost all — there are usually opposition parties and parties that support the government. I begin to see here a new type of parties, a sort of hybrid parties; parties that, in practice, support the government and enable government documents, but, in theory, oppose. [[CDS-PP applause.]] in what I do not want to believe, Minister, is that we are here before a stage — and the stage has some euphemism — which allows some parties to reject, out there, with strictness and strong words, the documents that the government is presenting and approving here through silence. They are some kind of ashamed authors of the documents. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u28	When it comes to speeches, they defend themselves, saying "Let's hit Brussels! Let's break up with austerity! Let's renegotiate the debt! Let's nationalize companies! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But when it comes to acts, in practice, they will do exactly what the government wants, when the government wants and as the government wants. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u29	Mr Minister, put an end to this show, let's vote! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u30	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u31	Mr President, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, a central objective that needs to be taken as such in this debate is economic growth, sustained and vigorous, at net job-creating levels, ending a period of stagnation and recession, which has been over. And it is in this context that significant growth in public investment is a matter of essential economic policy of our time. For the CFP, one of the basic issues for the future of the country is precisely in the degradation of infrastructure and production equipment, to be corroded and not backed up by the successive fall of investment, in particular the public, with a negative net evolution of gross fixed capital formation, not reinvesting itself in the maintenance, renovation and modernisation of infrastructure, equipment and machinery. That's what we had after four and a half years of PSD/CDS government. Public investment at current prices fell in 2015 to a level below 1996, a fall of 36 % in four years. With the argument of the need to reduce the budget deficit, it was cut in public expenditure and, in particular, in public investment. in the situation in which the country is, we have to discuss and point solutions to the problems and not the way in which limitations and constraints are imposed, which prevent these answers and solutions from being effective. However, the volume of public investment that can be expected in this framework raises inevitable concerns about the concrete response that can be given to these problems, which requires policy investment criteria, with a great impact on the territory, with a decisive role of the State in the strategic sectors and the development of public infrastructure and equipment networks. Strengthening quality public investment is central to our productive capacity. Employment, the dynamisation of economic activity and infrastructure must be integrated into a medium and long-term vision of national development, with the guarantee of its nature and public management and the incorporation of national production in its construction and maintenance. That is why, Minister, the question is about the political will and the options that the Government considers to take to face these constraints and to take forward a real policy of growth and employment, based on support for the productive sectors and investment, which finally allows the country to leave this stagnation and delay to which the right and right policies have wanted to condemn us. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u32	You have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr João Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u33	Mr President, Minister, the National Reform Programme is undoubtedly linked to territorial cohesion and the development of the country. The non-recovery of tolls in so-called "SCUT pathways" has always been justified with the need to compensate regions of the interior and without alternative routes, such as that of the Algarve. They were measures of positive discrimination to combat regional inequalities and asymmetries and promote mobility of people and goods. The former government, on the pretext of the crisis, on the pretext of the troika, decided to place certain tolls in these ways of the interior and also in the Algarve. They were very serious measures with the consequences we all know: more unemployment, more business insolvency, much more difficulties for the population. On the other hand, and the Minister here has already mentioned it, the renegotiation made by the previous Government was a real fraud, was only 10 % of what had been announced on the eve of legislative elections. It was only for public consumption, for populations. in the election campaign for the legislative elections, I recall, the current Prime Minister and former Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, Dr. António Costa, promised, or at least admitted, suspending tolls in the interior regions and also in regions of particular tourist flow, such as, for example, the Algarve, and recognized that the national road No 125, due to the high number of road accidents, represented a genuine cemetery. In fact, it is now a disaster, a tragedy for companies and populations to live in the Algarve due to endless works. There have also been previous governments that promises that there would never be tolls on the Child's Way until requalification was made. Mr Minister, I would like to ask: do you recognise that there are differences in the ways of the former SCUT, particularly in the interior and in the Algarve, where there is no alternative route? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u34	In reply, Mr Pedro Marques, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u35	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles spoke here in choices, Mrs Deputies, yes, they are clear choices, they are different choices and they are choices that will be voted on. next Friday, there are several draft resolutions on the National Reform Programme and on the Stability Programme which will be voted on here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u36	Don't! I'm talking about yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u37	at that time, each person shall vote and assume his or her responsibilities. So I don't understand your problem. He came to talk on stage. Madam Member, this document was presented one month ago, it had a very extensive debate, it had proposals from several parties, some were actually welcomed... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Are you really talking on stage? Oh, my God! Mrs Deputy, from your Government is that we can speak on stage, in which there was a Stability Programme which was sent to Parliament on the same day that it was sent to Brussels. This is a stage of a debate in Parliament, Mrs Deputies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Speaking in choices, Mr. João Vasconcelos, yes, it is our choice, planned and enshrined in the National Reform Programme, to support the development of the interior and also to do so by facilitating mobility for the interior. Therefore, we will take decisions to reduce tolls on the inland highways and also on this motorway of the Algarve, where alternatives are not appropriate, and we will also try to mitigate the consequences of the works in the summer period in favour of tourism and the development of that region. Mrs. Members, speaking of choices, public investment will grow again, Mr Bruno Dias. Public investment along the horizon of this Stability Programme is growing, growing in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. Grows. If we'd like it to grow more? Of course! And we must grow more, as soon as we are able to free our economic growth, and we will also fight to overcome the prospects that are here, which are conservative. But we must also grow as soon as we are able to grow private investment, because that is also what will allow us to create more jobs, increase GDP and then raise more tax revenue. And now, by connecting the answer to Mrs Hortense Martins' question, we will have to grow private investment which allows us to have more exports with more value added, but for this we need to support innovation, and not only support in speech, it is to support in practice, as you well remember. And here there is a great difference in relation to the previous government, if not only in the speech, at least very clear in practice. This is because when we received Portugal 2020... And here, responding to Mr Miguel Morgado, I must say that this is another way of implementing Portugal 2020, but even if that was the case, it would be very good and very important because, in terms of support for investment in innovation, you left EUR 4 million paid to companies and we already have more than EUR 150 million paid to Portuguese companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When we arrived at the government, the comparison with QREN was unfavourable, now it is largely favourable in support of companies' investment. Mr and Mrs Deputy, I would like to remind you, the investment support competition for innovation which you have now closed in April and which was launched by this Government was the one that had the record of the highest number of investments applied for by companies, more than EUR 2000 million of candidate investment, which has never happened in the last 10 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is to support investment, it is to give companies confidence and it is to ensure that companies, seeing that the State pays, that the State pays the available support from the European funds, seeing that the State has a prudent macroeconomic policy, a macroeconomic policy that gives confidence, that recovers income, recovering demand, but that puts European funds at the disposal of the investment, say 'present'! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The companies said 'present' because they were confident because they had never applied with such high values to investment support for innovation. This is good news for the Portuguese economy and it is also a sign of the transformation of our politics and our economy, which will happen throughout this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u38	To present the draft resolutions, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The documents we are discussing today in Parliament correspond to a fundamental step in the so-called European Semester, in which Portugal is integrated, documents that compromise today, 27 April 2016, this majority before the Portuguese for the next four years. We are no longer talking about the macroeconomic scenario of the PS, which the current Minister of Finance has led but has already kept in the drawer. First of all, the debate on the budget trajectory is being put in the wrong way. Above all, we are discussing what the European Commission leaves or does not do. Does this mean that for the Government and the majority of the majority, budgetary consolidation does not serve the interests of the Portuguese people? Is it not the European Commission and the rules that we voluntarily bound ourselves and could spend without limit, passing the account to future generations, to higher and higher taxes? Each tenth more in the deficit is not an irrelevant detail, it is to increase the debt by more than 180 million euros and the commitment to pay the corresponding interest. Having sound public finances is first and foremost in the interest of the Portuguese today and tomorrow, and a government and a majority who do not understand it will be doomed to fail in the objectives, because they do not believe in them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u40	What the Stability Program and the National Reform Programme demonstrate, above all, is the insanitary inconsistencies of this governance. Part of the majority assumes European commitments and says that they want to comply with them, but another part of the majority refuses the necessary measures to ensure that these commitments are fulfilled and even assumes itself as a defender of the exit of the euro and of the European Union. Part of the majority claims that debt is unsustainable, another part of the majority fluctuates between saying it is sustainable, while agreeing to discuss its restructuring. And the borders between these two attitudes are not even necessarily placed between parties. Not surprisingly, a project that supports two inconsistent pillars cannot be successful. The Council of Public Finance highlighted what all foreign and national institutions have been saying: the government's economic projections are clearly unrealistic, and this in principle determines the impossibility of the targets being achieved. If no one believes in the result, no one will be motivated to work to achieve it. [[PSD applause.]] Not to review the macroeconomic scenario for 2016 is a political choice without economic rationality. We understand where most people want to spend, we don't know how the Portuguese will pay. [[PSD applause.]] If the Stability Programme is unrealistic in projections and void in measures, the National Reform Programme simply does not contain reforms. It is not possible to decouple a single fundamental reform, capable of improving the growth capacity of the economy, of creating the wealth that they claim at each step to distribute. What shows is profound inconsistencies between the « promises » it includes and the objectives of the Stability Programme. The case of the reduction of public servants is paradigmatic. the Stability Programme announces a sharp reduction of public officials; the National Reform Programme announces the hiring of thousands of public officials in health, research, education. We await the clarification of the majority of the areas in which public officials will be reduced more aggressively so that global objectives are achieved. Is it in local administration? Are you going to close financial allocations? Are they going to reduce the security forces' effects? Or will it be the prison guards or the justice officers? Or social security? We have heard the majority say, day, day, day, day, and today it was day, yes, it has been said, that all public services are on the brink of ruin because of lack of personnel. Parliament and the country have the right to know which services and which employees will be affected. [[PSD applause.]] The Stability Programme states that there are positive risks to the budgetary strategy resulting from the reforms implemented and implementing it. On the reforms implemented, we cannot fail to welcome the late recognition of the positive impact of the reforms carried out by the previous government. However, it is not understood how to reconcile this recognition with the successive initiatives to reverse them. It counts on investment growth, but confidence is destroyed with reversals of concessions and privatisations and the interruption of the IRC downturn. We are betting on the growth of exports, but we are taking measures that reduce competitiveness.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u42	And as the negative reactions appear, avulsive and uncoordinated solutions arise, in the good tradition of socialist governance. [[PSD applause.]] As for the alleged reforms to be implemented, where is its effect reflected in the Stability Programme? The Public Finance Council itself claims that it has not been able to obtain such information. UTAO also highlights the lack of information on the nature and impact of countercyclical consolidation measures not included in the Stability Programme, contrary to what happened in previous years. Why would it be, sirs? Ladies and gentlemen? Would you prefer the Prime Minister to come forward with the measures as imposed by Brussels? Are you ready to tell the Portuguese that you didn't want to, but what was required? This only shows a lack of conviction and principles. [[PSD applause.]] Moreover, with this Stability Programme, it was also clear that this majority cannot continue to apologize to the past. It is written in this document that the Portuguese economy has been on a recovery path since 2013: GDP to be increased, unemployment to be reduced, investment and consumption to be recovered, interest rates to be reduced. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u43	It was the orange oasis!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u44	GDP grew 1, 5 % last year; the unemployment rate was 12, 4 %; and the deficit, excluding financial sector support, was 2, 8 %. This is the starting point for the majority. Coming here cost the Portuguese many sacrifices. To waste this effort, to question these results, is to betray the confidence that the majority claims has been given to it in the last elections. It is to question social security, public education, the National Health Service, in short, the social state. This is not to worry about people. [[PSD applause.]] at a time when Europe faces so many challenges, when threats to our common project multiply, when left and right populisms gain ground, feeding on the crisis, Portugal should remain on the path of gradual recovery that had been initiated. Safer grade, consistent. Putting everything back into question now will give reason to those who have always said prejudices against the countries of the south, will increase intolerance and lack of solidarity, harm the Portuguese and Europeans in our most expensive values, and will have for all of us very heavy costs for a long time. in recent days, we have heard part of the majority trying to distance themselves from the government strategy. Allow me, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, to use something that you very much appreciate — and I too — a popular expression: it is not worth the CFP to try to 'get the rain horse', Mr honourable Member! All in this majority, PS, PCP and BE, are responsible for this Stability Programme, this National Reform Programme and all the consequences that will have for the country. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] It is not worth saying that they only agree with what is not there because the Portuguese will not fail to understand who is responsible for what they are again in Plans B, C or D, that they will be forced to put into practice to cancel the effects of the budgetary irresponsibility we have witnessed. I would like — we all liked, in the PSD — to be mistaken and that it would be possible to distribute what is not available, to maintain confidence regardless of the measures that destroy it, that the growth model that led us to the bankruptcy of 2011 could now result. But ignoring reality and not learning from past mistakes is not our brand, it is yours. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u45	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Deputies João Galamba and Mariana Mortágua. Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u46	Mr President, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, I will ask one comment and two questions. The point is that it was clear today — not that there were doubts — on which side would you be standing today before the Ministry of Finance in the current debate in the European Union on the revision of the budgetary rules. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Not that we need confirmation, but I'm glad you did it here today. of the two questions, the first has to do with the following: Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque is the same Member who, when the Minister of Finance, struck all the records of amending budgets, failed all the goals, every year? Is it the same Maria Luís Albuquerque or is it different? [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second question is this: the honourable Member spoke here of a sustainable recovery that was under way and that this majority came to question. I would like to know what data is based on and how INE data show that in the second half of 2015 the economy was stagnant, that the investment was stagnant, and in the last quarter of 2015 it was even negative. Do you know this data or do you have others we don't know? If so, I'd be grateful if you'd done the press favor. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u47	Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has informed the Bureau that she will respond together to requests for clarification. Therefore, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u48	Mr President, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, Mrs Deputy, when she was Minister, failed numerous, numerous goals. [[PSD protests.]] But what we've come here to say is that it doesn't hurt to miss goals when there's a body and soul belief in the goals we're fulfilling. When there is blind faith in Brussels it is not wrong to fail goals. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] The problem is when you fail goals not having this belief of body and soul in austerity. When austerity is applied with conviction, then we can fail goals; when there is no conviction in austerity, goals are a huge problem for any government. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Madam Member, the fragility of these documents—and I think that there is an error of analysis there—is neither a cause nor a consequence of the fragility of the government, nor is it a cause or consequence of the fragility of the parliamentary majority. The fragility of the Stability Programme is the fragility of Brussels and its institutions. Brussels has come to run into democracies, to impose decisions and to condition decisions of sovereign governments — I know that this does not bother the PSD bench — and has been doing so without solving the fundamental problems of European democracies and economies, which have been devastated by poverty, unemployment and immigration. And all this has been done in the name of rules on which neither Brussels believes. Imagine now that the sacred rules, on behalf of which we could even break goals, are no longer consensual in Brussels, even by governments that are very close to the PSD. And we asked: But what does PSD think of the current rules? We don't know. What does the PSD think about the new proposal for budgetary rules? We don't know. What does the PSD think about possible budgetary rules that will improve the capacity of governments? We don't know. We don't know why PSD doesn't think, PSD obeys, and that's a brutal difference. PSD has no thought; PSD obeys. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] [[PSD protests, having Mr Pedro Passos Coelho beaten with his hands at the end of the bench.]] The PSD believes that good management is to obey Brussels well, and it believes that the person in charge of Brussels is not well governed. There is something new, Mrs Deputies: it is that we can govern well and we can have a good attitude, responsible for the country, and that may mean, yes, questioning the decisions of Brussels. It is a new way of governing, which, in fact, only gives us more security over the parliamentary majority that this government supports. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u49	In reply, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u50	Mr President, I would begin by asking Mr President to ask the Members. Members who did not use certain kinds of language that does not seem proper to this House. [[Oh!]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u51	As for the questions that have been raised to me about the revision of the European rules, if you are the Members. Members do not know what the PSD thinks about Europe and the governance of economic and monetary union is because they do not even work to read and hear what we say. We have made many contributions to the reform and deepening of economic and monetary union over the past few years and continue to make such contributions. If the gentlemen. Members don't know it's simply because they don't want it because it gives them more sense and it's easier to say that they don't know what to have a serious discussion with valid arguments. [[PSD applause.]] Regarding the issue of what happened in 2015 and in previous years, Mr. João Galamba, I was careful to quote the Stability Programme. If you do not read it, I recommend, because we are going back to this subject, surely in the future, and we will certainly discuss again the starting point and the point of arrival, which will certainly not be the one in the Stability Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u52	Your point of arrival was soon seen in the first year!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u53	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, on the question of the scapegoat of Brussels, it is not worth saying to the left that she supports what is not, that the rest is the fault of Brussels and it is the imposition that goes against the will of the peoples. You are presenting elections systematically against Europe. So far, they have never been able to form government and, even now that they form government, they are trying to take away the « rainhorse », pretending that they are not part of this government. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, you must assume: if you are the Members of the European Parliament. Members of the Left Block and the CFP do not want to be in Europe, they do not form a government with a party that says they want to comply with the rules of Europe. Either yes or no, Mrs. Deputy. That can't be! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u54	Mr Mário Centeno has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The Government submitted to this Parliament last Thursday the Stability Programme 2016 - 2020. In line with government action and the State Budget for 2016, the Stability Programme implements all agreements signed with political forces that provide parliamentary support to this government and as such maintains firm commitment to the Portuguese. The Stability Programme is a prudent document: it is based on a cautious macroeconomic scenario and uses the external hypotheses adopted by the international institutions for the Portuguese economy. I stress, firstly, the zero gain of external market shares, the consumption to be increased less than the available income, the inflation that converges for the ECB's medium-term objective, in a path similar to that which is currently projected for the euro area. In particular, the budgetary policy measures included in the Stability Programme allow for an adjustment to the medium-term objectives of the budget balance. Let me highlight some of the measures included: the acceleration of public investment online with Portugal 2020, as reflected in the National Reform Programme ; the complete replacement of public service salaries in 2017 ; a budgetary margin for productivity incentives in the public sector from 2018 onwards ; a convergence for public employment stabilization in 2020 ; the implementation of wage supplements for low-wage workers, with effect from 2018 onwards ; the complete elimination of the IRS overtax as early as 2017. in the area of fiscal consolidation, from 2017 onwards, the Stability Programme has underlying savings with PPPs (public-private partnerships) according to the planned profile for the coming years and already presented in the State Budget for 2016 ; the contraction of intermediate consumption as a result of measures adopted in the National Reform Programme, for example through the Simple 2016 and a new public expenditure review programme to be carried out throughout 2016 ; an additional revenue of taxes in 2017, and permanent ; the impact of measures in the context of the plan to combat fraud and provide and contribution to social security. Any additional tax measure must be neutral in terms of the revenue. The reduction of the tax burden entered in the Government's programme and translated into budgetary policy in 2016 is expected to continue to be the government's political brand. Therefore, the Stability Programme is not based on unexplained deficit-debt adjustments or on extraordinary and unrepeatable revenue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Stability Programme is, of course, not dissociated from the reality surrounding us. The external framework is characterized by an increase in international trade, which is estimated to accelerate from 2016 to 2017 to maintain sustained growth in the following years. The global economy is going through times of uncertainty. however, the economic policies to be adopted in Europe, the United States and the major emerging economies should contribute to overcoming this uncertainty. in this set of actions, we include the ECB's monetary policy decisions, as well as all the budgetary policies of European countries, which should become more growth friends, as has been mentioned by numerous European leaders. Of course, Portugal will benefit from these policies without ever losing sight of its own objectives of economic and financial rebalancing. For all this, a macroeconomic scenario should never be based on extreme or unidentifiable hypotheses in other scenarios. In this context, three areas should be mentioned: in the external field, emphasis should be placed on the acceleration of global international trade, which I have already mentioned, for the maintenance of low interest rates — a new challenge for the developed economies — and for the ongoing monetary support measures. within the budgetary framework in which the European Semester restricts choices, Europe as a whole should be in a phase of fiscal stimulus with benefits for Portugal. in the regulatory field, making the necessary efforts to exit the excessive deficit procedure, not losing sight of the flexibility and strict application of the objectives. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion around the Stability Programme cannot be disconnected from the state of our public finances. The most immediate result of budgetary management in 2013 - 2015 was the rise of the medium-term target for the overall balance of our public accounts at 0, 75 percentage points of GDP from 0, 5 % to + 0, 25 %. The country's economic and financial management in recent years has not put it on a sustainable budget path. That is why we also need to change policies. Emigration and cross-sectional cuts have made every Portuguese today have a greater requirement in front of him. The failed financial management of the last few years is visible, and it is now necessary to deal with it. This government has not turned, nor has it seen, the face of difficulties. For this reason, it has been the subject of cynical political attacks by those who have done nothing, by mercenary action and by negligent omission. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But they cannot stop us in the determination to correct the growth problems of the Portuguese economy. This determination is therefore due to strict budgetary implementation, as already demonstrated by the data from the first known quarter of yesterday. in the first quarter of 2016, the revenue of the general tax is above the budget forecast for the year as a whole. The exception is VAT, where reimbursements are this year EUR 340 million above that observed in the same period of 2015. Without changes in the tables, IRS withholdings are increasing 5, 5 % in the first quarter and social contributions are increasing 4, 7 %. These, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are good indicators for the labour market in Portugal. Expenditure on State staff increases by 0 %, even considering the current wage recovery. The expenditure on intermediate consumption falls by 2, 2 % when the budget is expected to rise by 2, 2 %. We have therefore verified an improvement in the budget balance before interest payments. On the basis of this data, we are sure that the INE will report, in due course, a significant improvement in the deficit in the first quarter. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government is committed to this. We are defending a more supportive European integration. Portugal is beginning to have a voice in Europe, a voice that strives for a more intelligent reading of the treaties and an adaptation of European and national policies in order to promote growth. Many have taken a long time to understand what we meant by this idea, many have not yet understood it or pretend not to understand it. Budgetary policy must be conducted rigorously, in order to promote confidence in our economy. Only this trust will enable all economic actors to realize the investments that the economy needs to grow sustainably. We have often said that investments should be of business but also of workers: companies, the creation of value and jobs in collaboration with universities, wagering in innovation, in the search for new markets; workers, in their training from a very young age, in the future in the Portuguese economy that should provide them with a return to their education. It is the only way to reduce the inequalities that the labour market cannot perpetuate. This is the view that the Stability Programme in conjunction with the National Reform Programme transmits, without wage cuts, no increase in direct taxes on labour and business income, no cuts in pensions. It is a path of fiscal responsibility but also of respect for the Constitution and citizenship, a new path to Portugal and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u56	Mr Minister, the Bureau has registered, to request clarification, four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. In the meantime, the Minister informed the Bureau that he wanted to answer two to two. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u57	Mr President, Minister for Finance, finished his speech by saying that we are facing a new way of ruling, a new way to the country, and I actually agree. It is a new path, a path based on pretense and escape to truth. That is your way, and I can tell you why. This stability programme shows the following: either you are pretending to kick in Brussels but you accept everything or you are accepting what is proposed and pretending here that you are not. The two things are not conciliable. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u58	Let me give this example: if there were any doubts, it was enough to listen to the statements of the coalition parties, who say that they do not appear in this Stability Programme. However, if Mr Minister, who has already put the economic programme that he has presented to the Portuguese, is now presenting to us a Stability Programme for which he knows that he does not have the majority support of Parliament, I ask: are you pretending to have that support? Why are you telling Brussels that it will achieve certain goals without explaining how? And why don't you explain them? Because you know, within yourself, that the day you begin to say how you will achieve them will not have the support of the banks that support the government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u59	Therefore, flee to the truth, flee to tell the Portuguese what awaits them from 2017 onwards. And what happens after 2017 is already present in 2016. No one believes in the forecasts that Mr. Minister keeps as valid, just you! With all honesty, if it were not the fact that you are today in the skin of politics and that government, I doubt that you would believe in the predictions that you have made here. But you have to do that role, it's good for you, it's your responsibility. Question: Does anyone believe in these predictions? There is no European institution, international, Portuguese, independent, subscribing them. But why do you keep them? Precisely to escape the need to say that, in reviewing the goals, they would have to change the budgetary targets and, automatically, take some measures that might not count on that support. They pretend to the Portuguese again! Mr Minister, it is before this scenario, in view of this unrealisticism and this inconsistencies that we have to ask you concrete questions. In fact, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque recently raised this issue. They plan to reduce the number of employees in the state — very well! — and thus achieve savings, but we know that there are reinforcements in many areas and, on the other hand, that there are parties that support the coalition that say there is a shortage everywhere. After all, is this number for Brussels or is it to be real? It's just that if it's to be real, say, then, where are you going to make those cuts. They take responsibility. They do not just say something to Brussels that they do not intend to do in the country to survive and ensure the support of those benches. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u60	The second example is tax enforcement. Is the implementation of the budget going well, but can you assure us that it will not move in the IRS retention tables in the year in which we are? Are you sure you're here today? And does it ensure that it will not, by means of IRS retention, strengthen the Budget? These are the issues, Minister. [[PS protests.]] For what we know — you, the government and most Portuguese people know – we are facing a stability programme that does not have the majority support of this Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u61	For a request for clarification, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Finance, the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, which we are discussing today, are an integral part of an interference mechanism established in the European Union to control the economic plans of the Member States. With this interference and control, what the institutions of the European Union want is to condition our sovereign options and impose the policy of exploitation and impoverishment that has resulted in the worsening of the crisis, unemployment, low wages and precariousness, mass migration and the spread of poverty in recent years. The position of the CFP is known to defend the collapse of constraints and conditionalities associated with the Stability and Growth Pact, economic and monetary union and the budgetary treaty, as well as public debt and the monopoly area on the economy, because they constitute a serious obstacle to the policy needed to ensure the sovereign development of our country. The position of the Government and the PS is also known, which seek to reconcile these constraints and conditionalities with the return of the rights and incomes withdrawn in recent years, facing the growing contradiction resulting from the constraints arising from European taxation and the need to find the budgetary means to reverse the policy followed in recent years, to respond to the structural problems of our country and to ensure the improvement of the living conditions of our people. That is the central issue, Minister. In order to continue the positive measures implemented in recent months, taking them further, financial resources are needed to increase public investment, to support national production, to value wages and pensions, to improve public services and the social functions of the State, to combat poverty and social inequalities. Financial resources which, considered in the framework of European taxation, will always be limited but which can and should be released, breaking these constraints, assuming the option of renegotiating public debt and an alternative tax policy, which more appropriately taxes large economic groups, large businesses and great fortunes. Mr Minister, do not give in to the European Union's taxes, refuse the path that they want us to take and which is contrary to our interests, release financial resources that allow us to pursue a policy of recovery of income and rights, we take the political options for national development in a sovereign way, that is the way we will have to do. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u63	Mr Mário Centeno has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u64	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, I believe it is difficult to read the Stability Programme and realize that what is said there is true. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is indeed a very serious analysis of all that is the recent past, where the Portuguese economy is obviously supported today, of what were the budgetary and macroeconomic developments. So it costs, because it would probably never go through his head writing a document of that nature. But, in fact, what is written there is what is written there and nothing else. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, Mr President, what is written there is underlying the fact that the Portuguese economy, in the last quarter of the year, has grown 0, 2 and in the penultimate, that is, in the third year, has grown 0, 1. That is to say, the 'ode' of the two tenths that you do, which is so much lacking in comparison between this scenario and the scenario of the other institutions, is in fact the two tenths that the country has grown — as little as the country has grown — at the end of last year. Mr President, the macroeconomic scenarios are made with external hypotheses and are made with the auditability that UTAO, for example, has highlighted. They are macroeconomic scenarios that are associated with proposals in which, of course, the government believes and will comply with them associated with a budget plan. If you look at the evolution of tax revenue in the first quarter, you realize the change in tax revenue in terms of economic activity. The number I mentioned, the 5, 5 % increase in withholding tax revenue at the source of IRS, has to do with information coming from the labour market, Mr. That is the mark that a government can now show in relation to its budgetary implementation. I also think it is natural that there is a lack of corrective budgets, because you really like it! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] We can make adjustments to address legal problems, for example, of unconstitutionality, as has happened several times in recent years, but, Mr President, this will not be necessary this fiscal year. The measures are known to UTAO, are known to the Council of Public Finance, are known to the European Commission, are listed in the Stability Programme and have been presented today, here by me and the press conference of the Council of Ministers, where we have presented and approved the Stability Programme. The difference in what used to happen is that we don't have any tax fraud like what happened in 2015,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... where tax revenues increased artificially, for example, with the handling of withholding of the source. The tricks, Mr. Deputies, are very well known, and you have revealed that you know them, but they are not in this Stability Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Paulo Sá, what I can tell you about your comment, which I agree with, is that this Stability Programme has a set of measures that aim exactly to increase workers' income in a logic of reducing inequalities. That is why there are planned measures to support the income of the poorest workers, this invention of our modern societies, which are the poor workers, which it is necessary to combat the instruments that the State has at its disposal and which are certainly in the area of fiscal policy. It is also true that the tax burden falls. It is very easy to make the accounts: it is only to add three parcels and realize that the tax burden falls every year in the Stability Programme. This is the dimension that can be projected in the context of the Stability Programme for income support. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u65	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get into the second set of questions. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês Domingos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Minister, the part of the Stability Programme in which he praises the year 2015 and the structural reforms made by the previous Government is indeed true. Moreover, he has mentioned several times, including yesterday in the Finance Committee, that this is a demanding implementation stability programme. It is, indeed, a possible word, but I think it is more appropriate to say that this is at the limit of impossibility. Firstly, because the macroeconomic scenario is completely disconnected from reality—that is what all the independent institutions that assessed it say. But even these forecasts, which are optimistic, are still insufficient, because they do not allow us to converge with the euro area average. Isn't that true? And that is because you have no vision to reinforce the offer. There is nothing about this in the National Reform Programme or the Stability Programme, there are only any setbacks, because they close the economy again, they bet on sectors that are not marketable, such as restoration, they stimulate the income—especially that of public employees— at the expense of the increases in regressive taxes that affect everyone in the same way. They increase the cost of context and increase the tax on oil products. Therefore, they effectively cancelled a possible positive supply shock that would exist for companies. Then, Mr Minister, there is budgetary implementation. The balance of public administrations increased by EUR 108 million in the first quarter. It is a concern, Minister. It's a concern and it's not good news, contrary to what it seems to be saying. This Stability Programme is another attempt to do magic. Mr Minister, the Portuguese do not ask for this: ask for rigour and caution because magic is very expensive. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u67	For a request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, I still wanted to know what companies found about the shock of the offer that was the increase in the fuel tax that the PSD made in the previous legislature. But about that I don't think it's important to talk. Mr. Minister, the truth is that no one has ever destroyed companies as well as the right friend of companies, no one has ever demanded as much from Portuguese taxpayers as the right friend of Portuguese taxpayers and no one has ever caused as much emigration as the right friend of people in Portugal. Four years of destruction of productive capacity and four years of worsening long-term and structural unemployment leave very deep marks in an economy that is long to recover. And there is much to do to recover the productive structure and our ability to grow, to create jobs with rights and wages. Today, this great recovery effort has two obstacles that must be identified, and the first is budgetary fanaticism. The Left Block defends healthy accounts and defends budgetary discipline. What we do not defend is that the goal of the deficit is to achieve the cost of poverty and unemployment. It is that we think there is a hierarchy of values and, between creating more unemployed, throwing people into poverty or making a speech about the fanaticism of deficit goals, it is worth the protection of people and the protection of the economy. Above all, we cannot accept that, in addition to blinding targets, Brussels can determine how they are met, what reforms are made or what measures are implemented in the country. And the most ridiculous thing about this debate is that even in Brussels, no one believes in the methodology of the goals themselves that are being imposed on countries, with so much sacrifice. in Europe, not even the right believes in these goals and their positive impact on the stability of the euro area. That is why, in your position of obedience — or, if this word is not very appropriate, I can say first in your position of blind compliance with the Brussels rules — the PSD is at risk of finally sinking a boat that is already watering, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. They are at risk of being embraced into an institutional configuration in which no one already believes. By the way, we must also point out that neither the Left Block nor I would like to leave Europe. Europe is also my home, in fact, Europe is the home of all Portuguese people and therefore we have so much right to challenge the rules of the European Union and to want better rules for the people as you have the right to insist on the rules that have come to destroy the peoples. It is that Europe is not destroyed and unless you want to send the Members of the Left Block out of Europe here no one wants to leave Europe. What we want is a much better Europe for the people. The second obstacle to economic growth is the financial system. There is much to talk about here, but there is one case that is special and deserves special attention: we cannot allow the financial system not only to fulfill its promise as it is maintained as a government resource buffer, without any control by the economies. The New Bank is essential and we must ensure that the New Bank will serve the Portuguese economy and will not serve any kind of private interests or will ultimately be privatized, with damage to taxpayers only because Brussels sends.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u69	Mrs Deputy, you have already exceeded the time of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u70	I shall finish, Mr President, my time and speech by trying to make a summary of this debate: is there a majority on the rules of Brussels? No, it doesn't exist! Neither here nor Brussels. Is there a majority on the institutional configuration of Brussels? The answer is no. Neither here nor Brussels. But is there a majority to end austerity and start recovering pensions? Yes, there is this majority in the Portuguese Parliament and if you are careful you will see that this is the most important thing throughout this legislature. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u71	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u72	Mr President, Mrs Inês Domingos, I continue to note the disillusionment with regard to the text of the Stability Programme, which I very much welcome. It's a shame you don't follow the rest of the pages, but I have some hope that you will get there. I'm going to give you some tips, Mrs. Deputy. The offer, in any economic analysis, echoes at least four words: cohesion, qualifications, innovation and state reform. And, Mrs Deputy, these four words are either in the Stability Programme or in the National Reform Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member has a very limited view of the word « offer ». I even understand why. It is that the 40 pages, source 14 and double space of the State Reform, never implemented by the previous government, are certainly not a reform of the supply. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The reforms of the Simplex, which we are launching and that will be given public knowledge in May, is surely a structural reform, a supply reform, a simplification of the state and a facilitation of life for businesses and people in Portugal. It is this type of reform that increases the potential product of the country, not other reforms that are not implemented. With regard to the comment that you made to the budget deviation, you would just like to recall that in February the budgetary implementation of the first quarter is affected by EUR 350 million of an interest payment that is actually accounted for as expenditure for 2015, not 2016, and if you want to analyze the budget implementation you need to continue to read to reach the conclusion of what may be comparable to what the Government has in the State Budget for 2016. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, it is true that participation in the euro area, in the European Union and in Europe is a right of all, is a right that must be exercised and, in order to exercise rights, we must have an opinion and express it. What the Portuguese Government has done within the European institutions is to contribute to a debate that brings more predictability, more stability and more control to government action in relation to the objectives that each government, because it shares a single monetary area, must fulfil. That is the view of the Government. It is with these rules and with this transformation of the rules that we commit ourselves and that is how we will continue to govern. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u73	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme are strategic documents for defining the economic growth model, job recovery, social and territorial cohesion we want for Portugal. These are choices and options that will define the development of Portugal in the coming years and are choices that bind us nationally and internationally. That is why it is particularly important that the predictions of them are realistic and credible, and that is why it also makes all the sense that Parliament is speaking about them and voting them. Today is the day we have this possibility. The vote on these documents enables, in addition to clarification and political accountability, to achieve an increased degree of commitment, which is very important for Portugal to complete the challenges ahead. for our part, that's what we did. We have presented a draft resolution with concrete proposals focused on the economy and people, on growth, on exports and on employment, on social security, on social inclusion and on combating inequalities, and also on the territory and on the modernization of the State. But we always denounced that this debate was not politically serious if it was done without knowing the Stability Programme. We understand today that the Government has three reasons to hide and postpone the knowledge of this Programme to the fullest extent. The first reason is the lack of credibility. It is known that the Minister for Finance has chance with the macroeconomic scenarios. In less than a year, it already goes to its fifth macro scenario. It was the scenario of the economists of the Socialist Party, it was the review of the scenario of the economists of the Socialist Party, it was the Budget of the initial state, it was the revision of the State Budget and now it is the Stability Programme. And even in this programme, what we know is that not the last one, it's just the last one before the next one. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And now it seems that you want us to convince you to review the 2017 scenario ahead because reality has evolved, but by 2016, reality no longer counts for anything and so, in 2016 it doesn't. The truth is that the Program is not credible in its goals and not prudent for public finances. When it is clear to everyone that the budget strategy for this year is not going to be fulfilled; when the Council of Public Finances, UTAO, Banco de Portugal, the European Commission, IMF, the OECD has lower expectations of the Portuguese economy; when the Government itself admits that it has a contingency plan, a plan b, for the risks of failed budgetary implementation, the Government decides to keep all projections for this year, which is completely unrealistic. the government's economic forecasts cannot only be said to go proudly alone, because they are sadly accompanied by the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. The second reason is that this Stability Programme is the end line for the illusions that you wanted to sell to the Portuguese, this Stability Programme is the call for the reality they so feared. You have exchanged an economic model for gradual recovery of the economy and employment for an adventurer model with worse results for the Portuguese. It is worth comparing the most important forecasts for families and the economy and discovering the differences: the growth of the economy, which was to be 2 % in 2016, 2, 4 % in 2017 and 2, 4 % in 2018, is cut to 1, 8 % this year, 1, 8 % in the next year and 1, 9 % in 2018, i.e. less 1, 8 % in only three years! Investment, which should grow 14, 2 % over the next three years, will now only grow 13, 8 %; exports will grow less than four percentage points than expected, social benefits—which you often say are champions—will take a cut of almost two percentage points. And even the internal search, which in your model is the great engine of the economy, is below what was planned for 2017, 2018 and 2019. What a disappointment, Dr. Centeno! This is not a stability programme, that is, an economic and employment braking plan. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And it is precisely because of the lack of credibility, it is precisely because it is the end of the illusion that this government has tried to sell to the Portuguese that you do not take this programme to the vote. This leads me to the third reason why they wanted to postpone the discussion of the Stability Programme — that of political responsibility. This may be the first time that a document with the strategic importance of a stability plan, which conditions the options on the economy and on employment, on the social dimension of the State, on public policies of employment, cohesion and inclusion, on the territory, on our public finances, is not going to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u75	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u76	And, if not to vote, this is due to a government solution that does not have the ability to understand essential issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u77	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u78	Principles that were clear to the PCP and to the Left Block, when they were in opposition, become opaque and uncertain now that they are in support of the government. The Portuguese Communist Party, which has always taken these documents to the vote, says it continues to be against, but now it does not want to vote. And the Left Block which, for reasons of clarification, has always asked for the vote of the CFPs (Stabilisation and Growth Programme ), of the WD ( Stability and Growth Document ), of the stability programmes, now says that it does not take them to vote because, and I quote Mrs Catarina Martins, «it is not worth creating problems ». [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Pacheco.]] I repeat why I didn't believe it when I first heard it: the Left Block now says you don't want to vote for the Stability Programme because you don't want to create problems. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government must be aware that it is sending to Brussels a document which cannot, which cannot vote in Portugal. It is extraordinary that the Government believes that no one will notice this fragility in Brussels. It is also extraordinary that the Government, particularly the Minister of Finance, did not realize the situation in which Portugal is being placed. for our part, we are discussing this with our proposals, with our alternative, but also defending the stability, confidence and position of Portugal in Europe and in the world. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and some PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u79	I call on you, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u80	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u81	To make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u82	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u83	Mr President, we have heard the CDS-PP, by the voice of Mr Pedro Mota Soares, make accusations about postponement of the vote on the draft resolutions. I would like to ask you whether the Rules of Procedure are not being complied with or whether the CDS would like a Rules of Procedure to be made in accordance with its wishes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u84	I think it was clear that the Rules of Procedure are being complied with in so far as what was approved at the Leaders' Conference was the discussion, the debate of the various draft resolutions and not any vote, and there are regiment votes on Friday. Mr Nuno Magalhães, I see that you ask for the floor. Is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u85	Mr President, it is also for questioning the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u86	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u87	Mr President, even to the good conduct of the work, I would like you to be able to confirm that the CDS, as often happens, called for the vote of the two Programmes today, which the PSD agreed and which was the opposition of the Left Block, the PCP and the PS which made the vote impossible. I wonder if or not what happened. Whether or not it was the PCP, the Left Block and the PS who were afraid to vote on the day these programs are discussed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u88	Don't! It was your rule last year!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u89	I confirm that only with a consensus could it be possible to change what the Rules of Procedure say and, without this consensus, it has not changed. Therefore, the decision was regimental. I believe that, almost at the end of the debate, it is somewhat to be raised an issue which, if so, should have been at first. Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u90	Mr. President, you're right. But in the same terms as the CDS-PP used the word, I also mean that the Socialist Party has only fulfilled what is normal in these discussions. The vote will take place on Friday. Furthermore, Mr President, we have not violated any rules and it is good that you are. Right-wing Members, particularly Mr Nuno Magalhães, remember that last year this was exactly what happened. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The debate was held in Parliament, it was adopted at the Council of Ministers on the following day and on the other day the diplomas were approved here in the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, there was no impossibility, but, yes, scrupulously compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u91	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech. Mr. José Luís Ferreira (The Greens). — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first note that the Greens want to record in this debate does not exactly have to do with the content of the documents under discussion but, rather, with the methodology, the way in which the government launched the process. There is, in fact, an investment in the method that would be important for him to do school for the future. If with the previous government the Stability Programme was referred to the European Union and only after a kind of ‘previous visa’ of Europe is that the debate in the Assembly of the Republic took place this time, the Stability Programme is discussed between us and will only then be followed to Brussels. It is an inversion that the Greens consider important not only because they affirm the defense of our national sovereignty, but also because respect for the Portuguese and those who legitimately represent them is strengthened. As regards the content of the stability programme presented by the Government, it offers us, as it is also public, some concerns that Greens can not fail to express, in particular concerns about the entry of civil servants into the administration. It is a matter that we consider important, above all, because the public services, following the real "bloody" of the personnel which the previous government has decreed, are completely emptied of human resources. This situation, to be maintained, will certainly compromise the urgency of responding to the needs of populations entitled to quality public services. We also have concerns, because this Stability Programme continues to reflect the objectives and taxes of the Budget Treaty, particularly with regard to reducing the deficit, thus continuing to constitute a strong obstacle to the development of the country. Finally, we have concerns because this Stability Programme continues to be associated with the European Semester, which is no longer a tool to impose austerity on countries and to place those who work to pay the bill of irresponsibility of bankers. There are, however, three elements in these documents which the Greens consider of the greatest importance. The first is that this Stability Programme continues to guarantee the recovery of the purchasing power of families and maintains the purpose of pursuing the path of defense of the social state. The second is that it costs PSD and CDS, that this programme does not provide for wage cuts, does not provide for a direct increase in labour income taxes, does not provide for cuts in reforms and pensions and does not provide for an increase in VAT. And the third, but not least, is that this programme presented by the Government maintains intact the joint position that the Greens Ecological Party has established with the Socialist Party. Now, this fact, for us, is an absolutely decisive and decisive fact for the way we look at the stability programme that we are discussing. As for the draft resolutions presented for discussion, both the PSD, and the CDS-PP, and starting with the PSD, we note the concern about the appreciation of the territory, because when we discuss, for example, the need for the return of the Fregueses that the PSD/CDS-PP government has extinguished, we may be able to count on the PSD for that purpose. We also note the PSD's concerns about the area of justice, because when we discuss the reopening of the courts that the previous government has closed, we may be able to count on the PSD in this battle. On the CDS-PP proposals, which do not condemn the documents, which is recognised by the CDS-PP itself, I would like to say the following: the CDS-PP, through one of its projects, intends to recommend to the Government not to reverse the reforms adopted over the past four years. In other words, they want the rate of VAT in the restaurant to remain at 23 %, that wage cuts are maintained, that the values of moderate rates are maintained, that the eliminations of holidays are maintained and that the intention of the former Government to cut EUR 600 million per year in social security is maintained. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we disagree. People have already penalized enough with the government that the CDS-PP was part of. The Portuguese, on 4 October, not only expressed the desire for a change of government, they also demanded a real change of policies, and what the CDS-PP wants is that this government's policies are ultimately the policies of the previous government. No, no, no. It can't be, sirs. Members of the CDS-PP. The Portuguese hope for a change of policy and do not want the return of the previous government's policies. By now, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I would like to say that I have carefully read the draft resolution of the CDS-PP and have not seen the CDS-PP propose the vote on the documents. What I saw was something different, sir,... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] ... was the CDS-PP to recommend that the Government propose voting on documents, which is substantially different. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u92	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, no one is surprised that in this debate the CFP reaffirms its position on the meaning of these two instruments which we are discussing, as instruments of interference, conditioning and control by the European Union of decisions that must be sovereign of the Portuguese State. And no one is surprised that the CFP reaffirms, in this debate, that the contradiction between the European Union's impositions and the defence of the interests of the country and the people must be overcome in favour of the country and the people, breaking away from the constraints and constraints placed on the country. Nor is it strange that we are trying in this debate to discuss the solutions and political options that correspond to the sovereign development of our country. Nobody misses this because these are elements that mark the coherence of the CFP's position over the years in the debates on these matters. The fact that the Government makes the choices it makes in these two programmes is responsible for the government, but does not call into question the coherence of the CFP as to the assessment that we continue to make not only as regards the meaning of these instruments but also as regards the European Union's taxation, or the options made on these issues which are discussed. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] In this debate there was another dimension played by PSD and CDS-PP who wanted to take advantage of the discussion of the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme to bring, once again, the cry for the return of the policy of the previous government, for the return of the policy of cuts in rights and incomes, of delays and of the national decline. The PSD, more disguisedly, and the CDS-PP, more candidly, even propose that it go back and turn to the policy of the last four years, particularly the CDS-PP, through the proposals that bring the discussion. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Now, what the PSD and CDS-PP really want, and taking advantage of the equestrian metaphor of Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, is to use the European Union and its impositions as a 'Trea horse' which enables them to return to power to continue implementing the policy that Brussels sends against the interests of workers against the interests of the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u94	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u95	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the CDS-PP assumes, moreover, in the text of the proposal itself, is that what it does not want to vote on the Programmes, what it wants to put to the vote is the return to the policies of the previous Government,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... is the return to the policy of exploitation and impoverishment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u97	And the PCP response, Mr. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we voted against the return of the policy of exploitation and impoverishment. The country needs to break with this path, with these limitations and taxes of the European Union... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u98	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u99	...and take a path with a patriotic and left-wing policy that effectively assures our country the direction of sovereign development, national that the country and the Portuguese need. That answer, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not just the PCP that gives it. It is the answer that the Portuguese give you every day, rejecting the proposals that you insist on presenting. [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u100	Mr André Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, at this time it is important to reflect on where the strategic priorities of the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme lead us and on its fundamental contribution to having an increasingly human, ethical and ecologically responsible society. The Government is making commitments in several areas, and the main challenge at the moment will certainly be its implementation. We stressed, as we have already done in the debate of the Government Programme and in the debate of the State budget, that we could have gone further in the criteria for allocating money to activities and industries that not only bring no concrete benefit to the population and the economy, as they bring negative impacts to all of us. It is time to look at the challenges in all their dimensions, if we really want to have some significant impact. It is time to bet on changes in behavior and ways of consumption so that we can evolve as a sustainable society. It is time to invest heavily in energy efficiency, in truly clean renewable energy and in healthier and sustainable production modes. Strengthening : confronting these issues consciously requires more political strength and boldness.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u102	For an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we are here today to discuss two key documents defining the government strategy : the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. I would like to begin with a framework note, referring to what context these documents are presented. In fact, there is a view of Portugal, presented above all by the PSD and CDS-PP banks, which is a little bit of fiction and which does not correspond to reality, as we understand it. What we see, when we look at Portugal at the beginning of this legislation, is a fragile banking system; it is a strengthening of social inequalities and poverty; it is a labour market that continues to be dual; it is a public debt that, net of Treasury deposits, reached its maximum GDP ratio in 2015 — never in any time in Portugal have we had a ratio of public debt, net of Treasury deposits, so high. What we see is also an excessive deficit. The deficit is smaller at the moment than it has been mentioned, but it will be 3, 03 % of GDP. So it's still an excessive deficit. And we see an economy as already mentioned by the Minister of Finance, which was established in the last half of 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the reality with which these Programmes are drawn up. The approach with which the PS views these two documents is very different from the approach used earlier, firstly, by the method, we call it European. It has already been clear to everyone that the approach of this Government and the parliamentary majority is not the same as that of the previous Government. We have a proactive attitude in Europe. This was made clear in the State budget, in which there was a frank and honest dialogue and, in a way, rigorous, I would say even hard, but cordially, with the European Commission on what we think are extraordinary measures that count and that do not count for the structural balance. The following was shown in the letter from the Portuguese Minister of Finance and from seven more European congenres in relation to the rules that make the calculation of the structural balance and potential GDP. In other words, we believe that these rules need to be reviewed and reassessed, because they effectively condition the budgetary policy of the Member States. All of this is a different attitude towards the previous government. We also adopted a different methodology in relation to the National Reform Programme. If they reviewed and read the 2015 National Reform Programme, they found that it was only a response to the so-called « country-specific recommendations » of the European Commission, the famous Country Specific Recommendations. We did the opposite. We started with the PS Government Programme, we saw it as strategic priorities, we discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, week after week, we received contributions that have been given, and that we considered valid, even by other banks, we incorporated them and at the moment we have a Programme that is the most detailed quantified thing that has ever been presented in Portugal, in terms of the National Reform Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was said here that the National Reform Programme does not include structural reforms. So I would like to ask whether the bet on the qualification of Portuguese and concrete measures to implement it is not a reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u104	It's not, no. It's a statement!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u105	I also ask whether measures to link companies to universities and promote innovation in the economy are not structural reform; if the modernisation of the state and the reduction of context costs and all programs associated with Simplex that facilitate the life of companies are not structural reforms. I wonder if the problems with the capitalisation of companies are not a structural block to the country's economic growth. Is it not, ladies? Ladies and gentlemen? We think it is, the gentlemen. Members think it is, but as proposed by us they are already in disagreement. All this is structural reforms, all this is important for the future of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I wanted to move on to the Stability Programme now. There are things that, by force of repetition, seem to be true. It was said today several times: « the projections of the presented macroeconomic scenario, no independent body subscribes them ». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you look at the numbers of the Public Finance Council? Did you look? I'm just going to bring here three or four examples. The Public Finance Council, in the March report of this year, plans for economic growth of GDP in 2016, 1, 7 % ; the Government proposes 1, 8 %. Does a tenth make such a difference? For 2017 it provides 1, 7 % and the Government proposes 1, 8 %. Is it so different? But there's more, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, and I'm going to give you one last example, not to massacre you again. With regard to private consumption, the Council of Public Finance, as I had yesterday told Dr. Teodora Cardoso, even last month, that it would grow 2, 7 %, far above the government forecasts. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members with simple calculations that if I assume this private consumption growth that the Council of Public Finance assumes GDP growth this year would be greater than that designed by the government. So don't say, for God's sake, that independent institutions, all of them, make different projections, because it's not true, it's not true. I mean, with this, there are no risks, no uncertainties, no challenges? Of course there is. In fact, these risks are materialized in the Stability Programme and with great clarity. In addition, I would remind those who are so aware of economic forecasts that in the 2012 Stability Programme presented by the former PSD/CDS majority, it is expected that the deficit for 2015 would be 3 % and, more serious, that the debt ratio would be 109, 5 % of GDP. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Eurostat has just validated the number of 129 % of GDP, it is a difference of 20 percentage points, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. I am referring again to 20 percentage points. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This to say two things. Firstly, the economy is not an exact science, nor is it a science — in my modest opinion, which I know little of these matters. [[PSD laughter.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]] Having said this, we have a trajectory, we know what it is and it is that it is in the PS Program and in the agreements with the parties on our left. I want to end with two fundamental ideas. The PS is determined to complete this legislation with the support of the parties on its left to renew the hope of the Portuguese, pensioners, unemployed young people and with precarious contracts, adults with low wages and low incomes, public servants, who have been mistreated for four years, and even entrepreneurs, giving them fiscal stability, reducing the costs of context. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS will show that there is an alternative to austerity and policies that have been carried out by the government over the past four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u106	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the intervention of the Minister for Finance, I would like to mention two points. On the one hand, it is said in the Stability Programme that « job creation is one of the priorities of the government ». Well, the job creation expected for 2016 is 0, 8 % and 2017 is 0, 7 %. We did not grow, we decreased from 0, 8 % to 0, 7 %. What envy will make you, Minister, that 0, 7% compared to the increase of 1, 4% in 2015! How jealous you will be, Minister! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u108	At the same time, it could give us an explanation of the reason for this decline in job creation in Portugal. But I am talking about job creation to get to another point which is the contribution to social security. V.Ex. it says that in the first quarter, tax growth and contribution growth are in line with the budgeted. Mr Minister, in contributions to social security there is nothing online. Well, Minister, there's nothing online, it's 0, 9 % less, almost 1 % less. That is, contributions to social security are growing highly below what was planned. This is very worrying because, looking at the budget implementation of the Ministry of Finance, it is found that the issue is even worse, falling months after month.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u109	That math isn't famous!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u110	This conversation is more for the balance than for the finance!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u111	I therefore ask you, Minister : is it true that this reduction of 0, 9 % would be, at the end of the year, a reduction of EUR 150 million in social security contributions? And, if so, Minister, what will you tell pensioners, people who receive unemployment benefit or sickness benefit, with this cut in contributions, who is as you say, in the privileged income of social security? Will there be an increase in revenue and, now, where does it come from, or will there be a cut in social benefits?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u112	Grants that you wanted to cut and that the Constitutional Court did not leave!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u113	Mr Minister, we should leave these matters clear because we are talking about people. We talk about people who are on the other side of the television, listening to us and seeing us and who really want to know what's going to be from these fantastic promises that VV. Ex.s here did, but they don't stick to reality. Or rather, that your own numbers are telling a great deal of lies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u114	Mr Nuno Magalhães, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost at the end of the debate, we come here, I would not say an impasse, but almost a surreal situation, in which everyone says « they are important documents, they are structural documents, but we do not vote », which bind Portugal, which oblige Portugal and the Portuguese over the next four years, but that « we do not want to vote ». The Left Block said that it was not to solve problems for the government, but it can perfectly solve problems for the Portuguese, not voting on a document that will force them, internally and externally, over the next four years. The PCP seems to have reinvented an old slogan: where it said « PCP leads the fight to the vote », now says « PCP leads the fight almost to the vote ». It's the new PCP slogan from today. We have also discovered, from the point of view of what is widely studied in political science, which is the useful vote, which today a vote on the PCP and the Left Block is a futile vote. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] They are against, they disagree, they don't want, but they vote, they vote! They vote here what they disagree about out there. [[CDS-PP applause.]] That is why, Mr President, let us be clear: the majority should be in favour of supporting the Government a democratic act of humility, that is to say, putting the Stability Programme to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u116	How was last year? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u117	We have waited until the end of this discussion and what we have seen is that the parties that have always presented initiatives for four years have not done so now. We have presented ourselves, CDS, so that we can vote what everyone says is important, what everyone says is structural, but nobody wants to vote. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I have recently heard the Greens Ecological Party and the CFP develop the thesis that, with the presentation of the draft resolution, the CDS, in fact, did not want to vote or that it would not be clear what it wanted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u118	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u119	I shall conclude, Mr President. To make it clear, on the part of the CDS, we will amend paragraph 2 and, where it is said to vote, it will be said that we reject the stability programme presented by the Government, and from now on I say that the CDS will vote against this Stability Programme. Have courage, organize and, above all, do what is normal in democracy. Our will is done in the right place and through the vote. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u120	Mr António Leitão Amaro, from the PSD, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have concluded the debate on several initiatives, including the « national plan without reforms ». We have asked, we have asked and the government continues to say that there are some measures, especially objective, but a reform that resolves, with concrete measures, a structural problem in the country does not exist! There are no reforms because your political project has no identity, because there is not even a path that makes the country grow and improve. Someone's been talking about a braking program today. No, this path is, at the very least, a march-back program. That is why in the Stability Programme they do not refer to the effects of the alleged reforms, they are not there...! There are three possible hypotheses: either because there are no reforms, there are no effects; or because if they were, the Portuguese would finally realize what your path of reversals would give; or, then, let us imagine, perhaps, the effects of your path do not appear in the Stability Programme because of fear, I will call you something else, for embarrassment of comparison—yes, of comparison! — with what you have before you. This is because finally, in a real access—the Minister of Finance was right— he said that structural reforms were positive, that the country grew, that had an impact on its growth, structural growth and, more so, that with the reforms we made, employment increased, unemployment increased, unemployment increased, investment increased, exports increased, the drop in school rate had a very large fall, the risk of poverty decreased in 2014 and 2015, finally, that the country was better. So they recognized the difference. With you, in the Stability Programme, there are no consequences of your non-reforms, but in the State budget it is said. With your way back and forth, the country cools. As my colleague Adam Silva said, it is the job that slows down, it is the investment that cools, it is the exports that slows down, it is the economy that cools, it is a country that, contrary to what they said, does not gain hope, sees a path of growth slowing down, cooling down. The Portuguese needed much more. They needed a government to offer them hope, at least they needed to keep growing and not, as is the case with you, to slow down.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u122	The country is bursting with hope! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u123	That is why at your « national plan without reforms » we, PSD, constructively counter with 222 measures, which would be, if they were adopted, a second wave of structural reforms to continue to solve the problems of the country and to give the country the hope of growth of the economy, employment, the investment that was taking place and that you cool down, and that does not make the Portuguese live better.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u124	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u125	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that on the Stability Programme it is confirmed that the Government insists on unrealistic scenarios. The programme has two problems: first, the expenditure is fixed and the revenue is dreamt and, because it is not realized, it is deficit, and the deficit is taxed now or in the future; second, your unrealistic exercise brings uncertainty and uncertainty no one invests, companies do not invest and employment is not born. That is why the PSD disagrees with your path, rejects this programme without reforms, this Stability Programme that is not serious, that is not credible and that cools the country. That is why the PSD will support the draft resolution and want to chum that different path they present to the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u126	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Galamba, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : At the end of this debate, we have found several things. The first is that the PSD devotes itself abundantly to producing beautiful words, which has a small problem: it does not play with the reality of its governance in the last four years. It is with some strangeness that we see both the PSD and the CDS talking about credibility, mystification, unrealistic forecasts. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this Stability Programme has risks, as all of them have. But there is one thing your Stability Programmes have and are not risks, they are certain: they have failed everyone—and every year and every goal— repeatedly and repeatedly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, at least, Mrs. and Mrs. Members of the PSD and CDS, some stink! Last year's Stability Programme failed in the first year of implementation. It's just the ladies. Members say that 1, 8 % growth in 2016 is unrealistic, without realizing that they have enthusiastically supported a Stability Programme that predicted a 2, 4 % growth this year, that did not have income-building measures and that had a cut of 600 million euros in pensioners' income. And that cut, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand ourselves, of two, one: either it was a cut, or it was an increase in taxes, because there is certainly no third alternative. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a bit of stink and realism when they talk about other people's predictions because first they have to look at yours, which they have all failed. Secondly, there seems to have been a strange consensus in the Portuguese right that reform is to cause blood. Either it harms someone, it hurts someone, it removes some right, it cuts off, it regresses, or it's not reform. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, I thought a reform was: firstly, to make a diagnosis of the country's problems; secondly, to identify the country's strategic objectives; thirdly, to identify the measures necessary to respond to the problems and achieve the objectives; fourthly, to schedule and schedule both temporarily and budget. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what this National Reform Programme does and that no reform programme from your previous Government has done, nor has it planned to do, because there have been things you did not, Mr President. Members, it was a reform programme or the identification of reforms that really responded to the country's problems. It is that whoever looks at what PSD and CDS have defended, and they continue to defend, can see a lot, but certainly does not see a response to the challenges of the country. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS continue to believe that we have a problem of labour costs. We believe that we have a problem with the degradation of working conditions and with the depreciation of wages and living conditions of workers. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen think otherwise. The gentlemen. Members think that we qualify the most: we qualify the more young, we qualify the more adults and we qualify the more elderly. We think otherwise. And all the studies and all the international indicators, although you continue to say no, give the Socialist Party reason and do not give reason to the Portuguese right. The gentlemen. Members continue to insist that we can degrade the entire country's offer. There is no further degradation of supply — and it is worth looking at the reports of the European Commission — than what you have done with emigration. Emigration degrades the potential growth of the economy. The historical fall in investment, which you have failed to reverse, undermines the productive capacity of the economy. The degradation of social cohesion also undermines the productive capacity of the Portuguese economy. And de-investment in innovation and qualifications, Mr. Members, you can be sure that it degrades the productive conditions of the Portuguese economy. That's why, sirs. Members, who, for some strange reason, after so much reformist success, boasted that PSD and CDS continued to boast, the potential GDP, at the end of the adjustment period, was lower than before the adjustment period. How do you explain this, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? And this, after such reform, of such low IRC, made by a reformist government as it had never been seen, a government that had finally made the reforms that the country needed? Oh, my God! This is the answer you don't have to give. How is it possible for a government, which says it has done so much, to have left the country, at the end of its project, worse than it was? [[PSD protests.]] And we're not the ones who say it, it's the European Commission, it's the IMF, it's the OECD, it's all the international institutions that say it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u128	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u129	And this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a prediction, it is the realization of the sad reality that you have left in our country and that we now have to reverse. With difficulty, it is true, Mr. Members, but this first budget and the National Reform Programme, which is all included in the budget strategy for the next four years, is what they will do. As much as you don't like, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what is going to happen to our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u130	For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u131	Mr President, I would like to leave a note to reveal what, in my reading, comes out of this debate: it is always good to speak truth, to write truth and to present the accounts with caution and caution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Actually, this is the only way to inspire trust. The confidence we see growing today in the indicators that statistics reveal, more confidence of entrepreneurs in retail trade, services, construction, and an indicator of economic sentiment that is within six months. Well, the opposite of nostalgia. The nostalgia, which some here have brought, of cuts, because, of cuts, they have lived for the last four years. Nostalgia for social security revenues to increase EUR 600 million this year, but any change to the plan would mean cuts in pensions for these gentlemen, cuts in social benefits. Now, that's not, it's not going to be in the government's action. What we have is a budget programme, a stability programme and a national reform programme, which we will implement. That's the plan a, that's the government action. This shows the budgetary implementation of the first quarter, in the evolution of public expenditure, in the evolution of revenue. The word accompanying these two programmes presented by the Government to the country at this time is « rigor », in addition to increasing the confidence of economic, national and international actors in the country. That's the government's programme, and that's what we're going to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-27.u132	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme is concluded and, in this way, our work today. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. on the agenda of the 15th anniversary of the debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, on the economic and social situation. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 27 minutes.]]
