ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we begin the first item on our agenda, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will report on the file. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the proposals of lein. 43 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the scheme for the professional valuation of workers in public functions, 44 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Co-operative Code and 45 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves measures for uniform application and practical enforcement of the right to free movement of workers by transposing Directive 2014 / 54 / EU, which fall to 10. the Commission. They also entered the table, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 355 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Criminal liability regime for behaviors likely to affect the truth, loyalty and correctness of competition and its result in sports activity ( PSD ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 356 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the Co-operative Code, ensuring effective respect for the cooperative principles of the International Cooperative Alliance ( CFP ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 561 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by valuing the Portuguese gestual language ( PCP ), 562 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Dissorption and regulation of tails of the Aveiro River ( PSD ), 563 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the preservation of the Diário de Noticias building and evaluate and consider the relevance of the classification of its husband ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 564 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures for a higher quality school for deaf students ( CDS-PP ), 565 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government give priority to the construction of a new crossing of the Tejo River between Golegã and Chamusca ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 566 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a serious dialogue with the social partners to achieve a medium-term social partnership agreement on growth, competitiveness and employment including the updating of the national minimum wage ( PSD ), 567 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Development and promotion of the Portuguese Gestive Language ( PS ), 568 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent need to de-absorb the Aveiro River ( The Greens), 569 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Guarantee of an inclusive school by promoting the Portuguese Gestive Language ( The Greens ), 570 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government entrust the Ombudsman with the task of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal ( PSD ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 571 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake independent, scientific and comparative technical studies with regard to the intention to review and amend the list annexed to Decree-Law No 565 / 99, which seeks to identify fish species classified as exotics/invasors in inland waters, establishes measures to ensure their disposal and punishes their non-compliance ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u3	Mrs. Members, we will initiate political declarations, the first of which is the responsibility of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The results achieved by Portugal in the area of education and which have come to the public in recent weeks are indisputably good. It may be the more or less radical left of the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Communist Party want to divert attention, but it is indisputable that the reforms undertaken between 2011 and 2015 added quality and equity to public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u6	The catastropheists, the « Old People of the Rest », the fanatics who have been filling their mouths accusing the PSD of being destroying the public school will have to swallow another toad, a toad of reality. The PSD not only destroyed as it, on the contrary, improved and qualified the public school and education system in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u7	And how! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u8	The results do not lie and no idle, even ideologically, can deny them. Teaching in Portugal, its demand and the reformist momentum brought more equity and mitigated social inequalities. [[PSD applause.]] Of course, in a complex process like this, all factors count, and they counted: the dedication and sense of responsibility of students, the spirit of mission and the professionalism of teachers, the availability of operational and administrative assistants and assistants, the monitoring and involvement of education officers, the intervention of local institutions and authorities. All — I repeat, all — share the merit of this result. [[PSD applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our students of the 4th. the year achieved a better performance in Mathematics than, for example, Finland or the Netherlands, we managed to be, for the first time, above the OECD average in Science, Mathematics and Reading, when we are talking about students aged 15 years, but we also managed to reduce the early dropout rate of education and training, which increased from 28, 3 % to 13, 7%, improving the educational qualification rate with higher education, which increased from 24 % to 31, 9 %, increasing the qualification levels of the active population and also the completion rates of primary and secondary education or, even, reducing, and much, retention rates. None of this would be feasible without structurally correct policies. To achieve all of this, from 2011 to 2015, they contributed to the school agents and community, but they also contributed to the structurally correct policies that were undertaken. Yes, unprejudiced policies, policies without sectarian revenge, policies of rigour, demand, transparency, monitoring and autonomy! Yes, the evaluation at the end of the cycle, which enables a systematic and transparent analysis! Yes, the definition of clear curricular goals and ambitious goals in fundamental areas such as Mathematics, Science and Language! Yes, the improvement of teacher training and continuous evaluation! Yes, a greater involvement of families and local authorities! Yes, a reinforced school social action! Yeah, not leaving public schools without employees!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u9	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u10	Yes, by not cutting, as is now cut, 20 % of the school budget is absolutely blind! And, yes, listening, dialogue, but not being captured by corporate interests and often party to some union agents!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u12	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PCP, it was for all these reasons that these results were possible. And it's good today that you and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, look at these data, study these results and can fulfill your duty. Today, your duty is not to oppose the previous government. PSD and CDS are no longer ruling the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u13	And good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u14	Your duty is not to oppose the previous government. Your duty is to rule for the future, not to oppose the past. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Your duty is to rule for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u15	That's what we're doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u16	In fact, it was the gentlemen who wanted to be government, not even the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u17	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u18	I shall end, Mr President, by urging the Members who support this governmental majority to fulfil the duty to govern. Shoot your opponent suit! Shoot your ideological fanaticism! Put your hand on your conscience! Don't say again that the PSD wanted or wanted to destroy the public school. This is no longer just demagogy, it is a lie and it is political and intellectual dishonesty! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u19	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u20	I will finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u21	Mr. Deputies, I was thanking you because I thought it was over.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u22	I'll finish. It's just another sentence, Mr. President. I am not going to commit the injustice of saying that the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PCP want to destroy the public school. You don't want to...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u23	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u24	... but they are making decisions and making reversals that avoid or harm more fairness and mitigate the inequalities of the public education system is true! You should catch up on your way and change your strategy! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u25	Mr President, the Bureau has registered four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u26	Mr President, I would like to reply first to two honourable Members. Members and then two others. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u27	Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u28	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, no doubt you have chosen an important topic to bring to this House. We will deal with him with the honesty and seriousness he deserves. The honourable Member goes back to the subject of reversals, ruptures, etc. I have a photocopy of the first page of the newspaper Correio da Manhã, of September 29, 2011, where you can read: Crato takes 500 euros to Catarina. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] It can also be read that the Ministry of Education and Science takes away 500 euros from each student and that the measure surprised students and directors of secondary schools. This was your way of making education policy! [[P.S.'s applause.]] on 28 December 2011, the Journal of News published the following : « Adult education and training professionals denounced... », this Wednesday, «... which ends on Saturday the financing that supports the intervention of the New Opportunities Centres (NOC ), without having any information on the continuity of projects ». This was the way you were doing education policy! [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Sir, don't hide behind your screams! Don't hide behind your screams! [[PSD protests.]] The European Commissioner for Education, Tibor Navracsics, on the dissemination of the results of the PISA 2015 ( Programme for International Student Assessment ), said: « (...) Portugal is the only country in the European Union that has continuously improved its performance in PISA since 2000 ». You are not interested in long-term series, because you do not know how much work has been done for at least two decades to achieve these results. I am referring to the expansion of pre-school, the National Reading Plan, the Action Plan for Mathematics, the commitment in education for citizenship, the creation of schools, the investment in facilities and equipment of schools, that is to say, investment in public school. That's what you guys forget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u29	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u30	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr President, what I would like to ask you, in particular, is the following: you do not think that by just taking into account the results of education of two, three or four years you are showing that you do not realize anything about long-term investment, that it is sustained investment, that it is really a bet in the country, a bet in convergence, a long-term bet, why is that what we need? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u31	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u32	Do you not realize that this shows that your policy of burned land reveals your strict educational views? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u33	To request clarification, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u34	Mr President, the PSD is trying, with Photoshop, to put itself in a photograph to which it does not belong, which is that of the merit of students and schools for the results of the PISA.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u35	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u36	The truth is that the PSD knows that the vast majority of these 15-year-old students did not get the most emblematic measures of Nuno Crato, neither the goals, nor the curricula,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u37	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u38	... nor the exams that the PSD is so proud. Therefore, it is not serious to come to claim the merits of these results, as it is not serious to hide what the PISA shows. [[Mr Duarte Filipe Marques's laughs.]] PISA also shows that in one of the countries where the tests were introduced early, exactly as Nuno Crato did in Portugal, which is Belgium, and where the merits of the tests are longer now coming down.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u39	It's true! Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u40	Therefore, the improvement of the results of the students in Portugal was not done because of the PSD, it was done despite the PSD, and this is what we have to welcome, that is, the school's resistance capacity. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] But the PSD is concerned with using these results to justify not only their performance in the Ministry of Education as their errors. These results show us that Portugal has the highest retention rates in Europe. What does PSD say about that? Nothing! Why? Because the rates of retention and dropout in Portugal increased with Nuno Crato, increased from 2011 onwards. PSD promoted student retention and that's why it doesn't say anything. But the PSD also does not say anything about what it created, the so-called "vocational basic education", in which the school tells students 13 years old — 13 years old, Member of Parliament! — students who have plummeted twice that their school course is over...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u41	Is that it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u42	... and that they will have school training in a professional context, in a working context. at the age of 13 these students have their curriculum reduced, they have often concentrated two years on one and go to the companies doing internships. That's when you're 13 years old!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u43	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u44	Most of these students do not return to school. And don't tell me that these students are included in the improvement of PISA, because you know as well as I that the PISA sample mix professional, which is a regular, with vocational, that are alternative ways. Don't confuse what's not the same. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u45	To reply, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Porfirio Silva and Mrs Joana Mortágua, I would like to begin by thanking you in a redoubled way for your questions, because the way in which they spoke is the best way to demonstrate the political discomfort they feel that reality has disappointed you from the top to the bottom. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] It is symptomatic that Mr. Porfírio Silva went, in particular, to look for news from the Manhã Post and the 2011 Newspaper, and then, in his speech, he went to look for 2000 policies to discuss this issue, when what was required was to hear about 2016, which is what is being imposed under his responsibility today. [[PSD applause.]] But let me say, Mr President, that I have noted that you want to do one thing in other speeches. Members were not even able to recognize that the results were good.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u47	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u48	They were not even able to recognize that the merit of the results had, and it has to do with the work that, on the ground, was and is done by all the actors of the educational community, but, above all, with the policies that were adopted. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u49	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u50	The honourable Member, who went to see the 2011 newspapers, should have read all the news because—at that time, the honourable Member did not speak much yet, but there were many people on his bench who spoke—he must have read what the Socialist Party, the PCP and the Left Block said about the effect these measures and policies would have. They said we were going to destroy, end the public school, look at it! [[PS and PCP protests.]] however, four years later, early abandonment decreased and the results in the most structuring areas of education are the best ever, Mr. [[PS and PCP protests.]] They're the best ever! Of course it has nothing to do with the government. No, it has to do with the criticisms of the opposition, of course! [[PSD applause.]] If you had read the news not from 2011 but from 2016 — and to be more independent, we will not even see the national press — if you had read what is said by Europe, if you had read El País or The Economist had seen the recognition of our European partners for the reformist momentum and its effects of education policy in Portugal. That is why we are above average today. What a blind eye, sir! Read all the news, sir! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u51	Show me the news about Minister Nuno Crato!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u52	Mr Luís Montenegro has already exceeded his time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u53	I will finish, Mr President, but I do not resist saying this. Mrs. Joana Mortágua comes to mean that the error of vocational education is demonstrated, until the results of the PISA do not include students who have had access to this component.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u54	I didn't say that! [[I said, I said!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u55	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u56	Mrs Deputy, I thought that she had already digested the public humiliation that was seen by the Institute of Educational Assessment, which is under the protection of the Government that Mrs Deputy supports, categorically refutes her statements. [[PSD applause.]] Do you know why, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u57	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies. The times are what they are and not what we would like them to be.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u58	Because today the PISA sample has 13 times more students integrated in vocational education than it had in its first evaluation, that of 2000, Mrs. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u59	For clarifications, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u60	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, the CFP is not in line with the results of the PISA because they are, above all, taken into account not the curricular knowledge but the literacy and skills, which should also be remembered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u61	Learn! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u62	But what is interesting here to say is that if these results existed in spite of the PSD/CDS government, it was, above all, the commitment of teachers, students, non-teachers, finally, of the school community. I ask you, honourable Member, where would we then be if there had not been this policy of destruction of the public school led by the PSD and the CDS. Or does he not remember the de-investment in the school park and in the special education, instability and chaos caused in the life of 27 500 teachers, the segregation caused by vocational dual education? Mr President, I would like to ask: where has the PSD been whenever the CFP, over the years, has brought measures to defend the public school, such as the strengthening of operational assistants, such as the hiring of teachers, such as the freeness of school textbooks and so many, so many other measures? PSD voted against! The PSD was not interested in this, but was interested in an active policy of destruction of the public school. In fact, Mr President, I tell you what the political inconvenience was. The political discomfort for the country, for the public school, for the students, for the teachers, for the non-teaching workers, for the families, was the PSD government / CDS. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u63	Mr President, the CFP will always be in defense of the public school, with proposals, with action, with intervention, as we have always done, but we will not do something that the PSD is trying to do here today, which is to assume as its merits that are not. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u64	You have the floor to request clarification from Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u65	Mr President, in the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group we have followed with great perplexity the discussion that was generated around the results of both the PISA and the TIMSS ( Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study ), because in view of the results that are factually and objectively good, they show a course of consistent improvement over 16 years in the three domains — reading, mathematics and science — and because they have reached a historical value by exceeding the OECD average in 2015. How have we seen the parties that support the government react? Essentially in two ways: on the one hand, hugging desperately about the fact that the right has no right to appropriate these results, which does not cease to be extraordinary because the results are not the property of any party but, yes, the merit of schools, students and educational communities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u67	... and, therefore, it is not a question of seeing who is the owner of a wolf that does not belong to anyone in particular; and on the other hand, also desperately seeking to change reality by means of files, such as the sample, to make sense of a narrative that was created both during the previous government and with this government with a series of reversals carried out without foundation and for total reactivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u69	Mrs. Members, I think it is time to heal a contradiction that I find very difficult to explain: they cannot have been able to say that the previous government destroyed the public school, that it committed a crime and that it culturally caused so much misfortune and now, in view of these results, that the previous government has been omitted and has not been here. Therefore, it is good that you resolve this contradiction and say what is the speech you want to take. [[PCP protests.]] Finally, for the CDS, there will be many relevant results to be evaluated here and which do not have to do with the politicism that has been done around this issue. For example, regional results need to be evaluated, knowing what is going on in the Upper Thame region, with results consistently below the national average. But the big question that we wanted to put to everyone, in particular to the PSD, is the following: as a Parliament, what value do we want to attach to the stability of education policies—and this discussion has already been brought here by the CDS — in view of these results, which we now consider to be more relevant?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u70	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u71	I will finish, Mr. President. How do we want to treat stability in education policies so that they can bring the good results that have happened in this case? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u72	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u73	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u74	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u75	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u76	Mr President, my appeal is to request the distribution of two documents: the door that creates vocational education, to show that it did not exist during the last test of the PISA,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u77	Madam Member, just tell me what the documents are, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u78	... and, therefore, it is wrong to say that there is more representation now because it did not exist before — it is a small manipulation of the honourable Member ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u79	Only list the documents, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u80	... and the PISA test page that has the sample and that proves that professional education was deliberately mixed with the vocation to hide the reality of the vocation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u81	Madam Member, the documents will be distributed, as you have requested. To respond to requests for clarification, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u82	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by Mrs Ana Mesquita and Mrs Ana Rita Bessa. The best answer I can find to give to Mrs Joana Mortágua in this appeal is also to distribute the clarification note of the Institute of Educational Assessment, which is an entity that is under the protection of the Government that Mrs Mortágua supports and which responds very clearly and in a very direct way to her observations. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate on this political statement, and taking advantage of the questions put to me, let me tell you, Mrs Ana Mesquita, that we do not want any merit other than ours. In fact, I have even had the opportunity to share with the entire educational community the merit of the results that have been and are being obtained, and they are several, not only those of the last few weeks, as I have said. But the strange thing is that the honourable Member wants to charge us with a demerit without any correspondence to reality... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u83	...and want to ignore the merit not of students, teachers, employees or local authorities but of the policies that led to these results. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Madam Member, you must not want to see to it that you do not recognize that everything that was an announced catastrophe and that you are the Members of the European Parliament. Members who support the government today wanted to advance the education system in Portugal did not happen. But worse than that, not only didn't happen as the opposite happened. In fact, the indicators show that the strategic wager in public school in the requirement, in quality, is given all the conditions to take advantage of the installed capacity, restructuring the services, but not making blind cuts like those that are making today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u84	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u85	... all this, Mrs. Member, has led to a very significant advance, which is recognized internally by those who want to be independent in the analysis and externally, for the majority of reasons, for those who have this independence at the start. And the important thing today was to know whether, in view of this reality, the ladies and gentlemen. Members are available to evaluate what is the impact of the reforms that have been undertaken, perhaps even detecting something that is not so good,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u86	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u87	... but also conclude that what was done produced a result, which should not be broken by mere prejudice or, more than that, by pure ideological fanaticism and party. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in a word, it is not for you to have been wrong, it is not because you have been upset by the reality that you no longer have the opportunity to do the right things.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u88	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u89	Learn from your mistakes! Since we are talking about learning and teaching, learn, give an example to the students of this country and show that they are also able to learn from reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u90	Don't mess up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u91	That is what matters to our future. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u92	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u93	I will finish, Mr. President. This debate showed evidence, which we all felt:...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u94	Mr President, time is not as elastic as everyone would like it to be.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u95	...it is absolutely absurd your speech, the one they have had and who, by the way, want to continue to have, that our purposes in terms of educational policy lead to the destruction of public school. This is demonstrated, without any basis for any doubt. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u96	For a political statement, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The year 2016 is under the sign of democracy, freedoms and equality, since this year we celebrate the 40 years of our Constitution and the first authentic elections in democracy, which took place on December 12, 1976. in this paradigm change, one of the greatest achievements was the democratic legitimacy of the local power. A local power that has gained in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and in the European Charter of Local Self-Government (CEAL ), by its own law, its autonomy and independence, which has made it an essential pillar of democracy, because without autonomous, sustained and intervening local power, there is no effective and full democracy. The local authorities over the last 40 years have been the power that has dared to transform territories and infrastructure, which has been able to develop potentialities, promote economic, social and cultural cohesion, approach agents and living forces, preserve identities and democratise services and their access on an equal footing. Therefore, the Socialist Party has always trusted the local power, the autarchs, and believed that development always goes through local democracy. Today, the municipalities are increasingly the major public partners in education, are determinants in social areas and in health education, are promoters of culture, sport, the appreciation of historical heritage, the preservation and recovery of traditions and the dynamization of artistic creativity, contributing, in a decisive way, to the democratization of culture, through equal opportunities in access to cultural services and offers. At the same time, the local authorities, appealing to the participation of the population, have been a true school of citizenship and have accumulated a capital of confidence of the greatest importance for Portuguese democracy. And today the PS makes the recognition to all the autoarchs of this country these 40 years of democracy and local power. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The National Convention of ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ) in partnership with ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias ) on the 40 years of democratic local power, held this Saturday in Coimbra, evoked this capital of trust and development, constituting a high moment, juggling and demonstrating the strength of local power and the determination of the autoarchs and populations to respond to the new and demanding challenges that arise. With the change of policies operated with the current government, with the options of the 2016 Budget and, now, with the 2017 Budget, the path of autonomy was restored and promoted an effective dialogue route with ANAFRE and ANMP, currently being the level of financial transfers in line with 2011. It was reinforced again, and well, the local power by the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Since the Local Finance Act of 2007, local authorities have always had positive budgetary balances. They've always done it! The trend remains in 2016, with a positive balance of EUR 640 million. In addition, they ensure 46 % of public investment, although they participate in only 14 % of public revenues against 25 % of the European Union average. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, past the hardware phase, i.e. the response to basic needs and the infrastructure of the territory, the challenge of local authorities today is to consolidate the full responsibility for managing proximity public equipment and to be the drivers of territorial competitiveness, attracting investment and employment. The best way to recognise this role of the local authorities, in four decades of democracy, is, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are carrying out a profound democratic reform of the State together and in a participatory manner. In 2017, we can and should deepen the constitutional path opened in 1976, giving full compliance with Article 6. the Constitution, deepening the path of subsidiarity, autonomy of local authorities and democratic decentralization of public administration. In this way, proximity governance will be enhanced, favouring a more efficient use of local resources and greater representation of its populations. « More Local Government, Best Portugal », as stated at the Congress of Troy, in 2015, by ANMP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Strengthening the competences of local authorities will allow the transfer of competences from the central government of the State to the coordination and regional development committees, which will be democratised, to the metropolitan areas, which will become more competitive at European level, and to the inter-municipal communities, charneira entities for future strategies. The municipalities will have new universal competences in the educational, social, cultural and other areas related to the territories, so that they can be managers of all public policies with local impact, with the unique transversality and democratic legitimacy they have. The French authorities will be given powers adapted to local reality, depending on their nature, and granted their own powers in areas now assigned by a mere municipal delegation. The new role of the authorities will thus allow in 2018 to define the appropriate scale of territorial organization, always in local dialogue. The realization of this important reform of the State's organization and its presence in the territory also requires a new framework for financing the local administration, to accompany the strengthening of the powers of local authorities, converging with the goal set out in the National Reform Programme for the European Media, in terms of the participation of authorities in the public revenue. at the end of December, the discussion with ANMP and ANAFRE on the areas to be decentralised will be completed, as the Prime Minister said in the last fortnight debate, so during the first quarter of 2017, it will be up to the Assembly of the Republic to make new history, now in the sense of decentralization, ensuring a new autoarchic cycle and a new generation of local policies. We believe in an effective decentralization of a universal nature, but we also believe, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a social state, which incorporates modernization and innovation into their DNA, which never ceases to be present in the territory — throughout the territory, as the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion points out — and to be an engine for development, cohesion and equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u98	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u99	I'm done now, Mr. President. We believe that those closest to us can be more efficient and effective. We believe in a local power that knows how to anticipate the problems, that knows how to respond quickly, human and always present. The democratic local power is facing yet another huge challenge: to deepen democracy, to decentralize more, to develop more, to democratize more. In conclusion, I am sure that we will find here, in this House, the consensus, on the right and on the left, and the necessary contributions to a confidence contract for decentralization.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u100	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u101	That is why, Mr President, they serve the ways, to make us relatives of the future. We knew how to be relatives of the future and fraternity, as Mr. President of the Republic told us last weekend in Coimbra! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u102	Mrs. Deputy, three Members have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u103	Mr President, I would like to reply first to two honourable Members. Members, together, and then a Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u104	It's not that you like, but we're gonna do it like that. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Berta Cabral, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Susana Amador, I would first of all like to welcome all the autarchs on behalf of the PSD and to express our special recognition to all those who, over the past 40 years, have given their best in favour of the development of their territories and their populations. Much of what the country is today owes it to its autarchs. The PSD is proud of its authorship and is proud of its great autorical implementation and of its municipalist tradition, based on a decentralized public administration. We have been talking about decentralization for 40 years, transferring skills, but there is still a long way to go. It is undeniable that in the previous government we have made significant steps and successfully in the process of decentralization of competences for local power, a process which, unfortunately, has been interrupted over the past year and which is important again. For this reason, we have put forward proposals throughout this year, more specifically in the context of the discussion of the State budget for 2017, proposals which have been plunged by the majority supporting the Government. But we don't give up! I would therefore like to inform you here that we are going to present our proposals in the form of draft laws again and immediately. We welcome the positive references made by the Prime Minister to our proposals, at the 15th week debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u106	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u107	... and we also welcome the fact that the parties that support the government, more specifically the left parties, have also adhered to this cause. Who knows in a competition to see who doesn't miss the train! Is that what you're talking about? After 40 years, local power is faced with new challenges. Challenges that go through strengthening the autonomy of local power, promoting inclusive economic and social development...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u108	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u109	...and sustainable environmental development, in order to deepen democracy and citizenship. These are new challenges which are underlying our concept of decentralization and which are essential for local authorities to play an increasingly better role in the integral development of our country. decentralization is therefore the way, and it is a task of all: of the government and of all parties. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u110	For clarifications, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u111	Mr President, Mrs Susana Amador, I would like to congratulate her on the topic that she brought to the Assembly of the Republic for discussion and also, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, on welcoming the commemoration of the 40th anniversary of the first democratic elections for the authorities, welcoming the democratic local power and all that has contributed to the development of the various territories. in our country, there were territories where everything was to be done. And it was indeed the authorities, elected by the people who, with their action, provided better living conditions for the people. Today, the democratic local power, also the target of de-investment policies, including subversion of its constitutional principles, in particular by the PSD/CDS Government, is still experiencing great difficulties. These are the financial issues, because the authorities are not equipped with the necessary means to carry out their tasks and competences, including reducing the participation of the authorities in public resources. This is, of course, a matter that requires intervention on our part. With regard to the transfer of competence, the CFP Parliamentary Group has expressed deep concern and is opposed to those who have been the processes of the past. The proceedings did not go well, went badly, corresponded to the deresponsibility of the State of its competences, no money was transferred to the authorities to be able to perform these same powers and corresponded to a transfer of charges to the authorities, which we believe should not happen. The social functions of the State cannot be called into question, as cannot be called into question its universality. I would also like to ask you two other questions, Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u112	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u113	I shall conclude, Mr President. In relation to metropolitan areas, the PCP has been defending that they are considered as true authorities and that they are directly elected by the population. I would like to ask the Socialist Party and the honourable Member what their views on this matter are. On the other hand...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u114	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u115	I conclude by saying the following: when you celebrate the 40th anniversary of the first authentic elections in democracy, the replacement of parishioners already in the next election period in 2017 would be a good way to value, dignify and commemorate these 40th years. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u116	In reply, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u117	Mr President, Mrs Berta Cabral and Mrs Paula Santos, I thank you for your questions and also for the reflection and contributions you have left us in this debate, which is consensual in terms of the recognition of the role that the citizens of this country have had over 40 years of democracy. With regard to the contributions that the PSD has to make and which it has already made in the State Budget, it was said and emphasized that this was not the head office to analyze them because we were still in a negotiating process with ANMP and ANAFRE. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] The process will come here, to the Assembly of the Republic, in the first quarter, and it will then be the headquarters to examine all the contributions. Everyone is welcome, from the right to the left, so that this process can be what the PS can be: a process involved, fruit of negotiation, fruit of auscultation and in local dialogue, because that is the only way good reforms can have a positive outcome. What happened in the past — the impulses of the PSD were certainly worthy...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u118	Mrs. Susana Amador, I ask you to interrupt for a moment, because there is a noise in the room that is not compatible with our work. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing by to talk that they feel or that they are silent. [[Pause.]] Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I was saying, the PSD started this reform in its last year of mandate, in an adverse political, economic and social context, since, over these three years, there has indeed been a very large disinvestment and a set of legislation - in some cases, the result of the economic and financial crisis, in others, by purely ideological choice - that created a climate of crispation and tension, and that climate was not the best thing for effective reform to begin. We are aware that, at the moment, this climate and this environment of confidence exist and, with the contribution of all, we will certainly reach good port, for the sake of Portugal and for the good of Portuguese, for a decentralizing reform and for the full fulfilment of our Constitution, in particular of Article 6. o. Mrs Paula Santos, on the issues she has raised, I would like to say that, as I said in my speech, the replacement of ferries will be made within the framework of 2018, because we believe that, firstly, it is essential to introduce a very clear definition of the new competences for ferries, which will benefit from their own competences, from transfers that will come from the State budget and not from the mere municipal delegation, from competences that will also give them critical mass. After defining the legal framework, when it is our knowledge and when it is discussed here, we will have the conditions to look at the map, to look at the territorial reorganization. And we will know already on December 20 the results of the working group that had this mission to find the criteria and to look at the territorial map of the parish. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Therefore, on day 20 we will have this note, but we understand that 2018 will be the year in which we will be able to look at territorial reorganization. In relation to the metropolitan areas, what has been done—and well done, to our sight! — it was to allow the presidents of the metropolitan areas themselves to make a drawing and a contribution to what they want to see in terms of their competences and in terms of the legitimacy and democratity of the process. We also await the return of this active role that we wanted to give them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u120	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u121	Therefore, these are processes that are ongoing and have a great difference from the past: they are effective auscultation, they are effective contact and are effective democracy, they consist of listening to others in order to be able to design better and more qualified policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u122	Mr Pedro Soares, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Susana Amador, I would like to thank you for bringing up the debate on a subject that is of the greatest importance and which is associated with local power. We want to associate ourselves with commemorations and greetings for the 40 years of democratic local power in our country, but we must not fail to note that there are two spots in these commemorations of the 40 years of local power. First of all, one of the stains is related to the subject to which the honourable Member has just mentioned, that of the reversal of the aggregation of the parish. As we know, in the previous term, more than 1000 fregueses have been aggregated on a mandatory basis, the rule and framework, in most cases against the will of the people themselves, as if, in fact, it has been demonstrated. Mrs Susana Amador, I recognize that she has made a huge effort to try to justify the reason why a legislative process has not already taken place that leads to the possibility of reversal of the parish. But I must tell you that the justifications that you have sought here do not in fact justify the postponement of this reversal until after the 2017 elections. And you don't justify why, Mrs. Deputy? Because what the government has been saying is that it does not intend to reverse now so as not to bring problems to the 2017 electoral process. But we are still far enough away from the 2017 municipal elections, which would in fact allow us to have a process of completely reversing the 2017 final elections. But the main problem, Mrs Deputy, is that if this reversal process is done in 2018, what will happen is the following : it will be constituted a set of new frequencies that will be subject to the constitution of administrative committees that will necessarily give interim elections within a while after that reversal. I mean, they don't want to harm, bring problems to the 2017 electoral process, but they will bring a set of interim elections to hundreds of parishioners right after the 2017 elections. This doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u124	You've outlived your time. I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u125	Finally, Mr President, referring to the second stain as the problem of regionalization. Mrs Susana Amador spoke in general about the 40 years of local power, but she did not once say the word'regionalization'. It must be said that all problems in our country have a local scale,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u126	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u127	... they have a national scale, but they also have a regional scale that needs to be democratized, which is a design of the Constitution and which cannot be excluded from our democratic architecture. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u128	Mrs. Susana Amador has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u129	Mr President, Mr Soares, thank you very much for your reflection and for the contributions you have made and that you have added to this debate. On the issue of regionalization, the Socialist Party has no taboo or reservations on this subject. It is a subject that we understand we must return to the political agenda, it is an important issue and it is also related to the development of the country itself. We understand that society is mature enough to re-enter this debate and, in essence, we will also revisit our Constitution, bearing in mind that the regions are part of this constitutional path of deepening democracy and the organization of our State. It is a summit that will surely be discussed here without any prejudice or reservation by the Socialist Party. What is on the table at the moment is, in fact, looking at the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees), to the inter-municipal communities, to the municipalities and to the parish, looking at these realities, giving them greater empowerment, giving them more skills, giving them more scale, more critical mass. in the background, allow them to be more efficient, more effective and manage to generate more sustainable responses for a country which is understood that the more decentralized it is, the more democratized and more developed it will be. So this is what's on the table, it's an ambitious package, it's an ambitious agenda that's anchored in a new generation of local policies. We all know how to find the best solutions for this decentralization to be synonymous with development, democracy and democratization, because that is what we want to do, that is to deepen democracy. With regard to the issues related to the map of the parish and that our working group has been developing, I would like to reiterate that, even this year, we will have further developments on what the working group will have defined and that we will also have the entire year of 2017 to work on this process. That is, in 2018 it will be realized, but we will not be stopped until there.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u130	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u131	This question will be assessed, because the PS has always recognized that this was a deformed process, done in autistic manner, a forced process where there was, in fact, no involvement of all local powers and that it was often against municipal assemblies and Freguesian assemblies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u132	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u133	This will not happen again, there will be this effective hearing and surely all gross errors will be treated and eliminated so that the parish can in essence also be a development engine of the country. We shall certainly make that recognition to the parish of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u134	I have the floor for a political statement by Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today the termination of concession contracts for the exploration and exploitation of oil and gas on land, in the municipalities of Aljezur and Tavira, by Portfuel, of Entrepreneur Sousa Cintra, was announced. In addition, the intention was announced to terminate one of the contracts with the Partex / Repsol consortium on the coastal algarve. This change would not have been possible without the virtually uninterrupted mobilization of many movements and associations that have been slightly raised across the Algarve against oil and gas exploitation. It is to them that we must address our first words, to the movements of the Algarve and outside the Algarve, which, by bringing together hundreds of people, activists with decades of experience and others who awaken today to the environmental struggle, have allowed this first victory. The Left Block is and will be on your side. Beshajam! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Today we have this problem in our hands because we have archaic legislation in force: Decree-Law No 109 / 94, signed by Mira Amaral and Cavaco Silva days before the entry into force of European legislation on fossil fuels in the 1994 years. It is a law with the potential to turn the country into an open-air mine for the extraction of oil and gas, a law made in accordance with the interests of oil, which would become attracted by balance prices, with qualified investment or not, a kind of Portugal imagined as a small Texas with a hat at Dallas. This 1994 law ignored the environmental, social and economic impacts of fossil fuel exploration, olympically disregarding the issue of climate change over 20 years. We must not forget that Manuel Pinho, Álvaro Santos Pereira and Jorge Moreira da Silva were the ministers who used this law to deliver 15 concessions on the coast of the country, from Vila Real de Santo António to the port, and the terrestrial areas of Aljezur, Tavira, Battle and Pombal. They knew what they were doing. Supported by a cachetic law, many of these contracts were signed when the previous government had already passed its own term of validity: with Repsol / Partex on 4 September 2015, with Sousa Cintra on 25 September 2015, with Australis, in Battle and in Pombal, on 30 September 2015, four days before the legislations of 4 October—requints of iniquity in an obscene process. The Left Block has an absolutely clear position on the future of all concessions for the prospect and exploitation of fossil fuels in Portugal: the current law, cachetic and dangerous, must be replaced by another one, updated by the principles of combating climate change. And a new law on exploration and exploration of oil and gas must say one and one thing, very simple: no more a hole, unexplored reserves of oil and gas are even to stay in the basement. In addition, all concessions must be terminated and these three must be just a start, when even more 12 are missing! [[Congratulations from BE.]] But the Block does not know the limits of the government's position. The Government says that the State lacks legal support to immediately cancel the concessions it has not yet revoked. Now, here in Parliament, we have some housework already done. In the Committee on the Environment, the draft laws of the Bloc and the Greens are being discussed, as well as the draft resolution of the PS, which are in favour of imposing a demanding environmental impact assessment and public consultation regime on existing concessions. And if, for the time being, a majority of Members are still missing here to cancel all concessions — the Bloc claims that they are all cancelled — we certainly already have a majority to create a new, more demanding, environmental impact assessment and public consultation regime. This new regime, which prevents the smooth progress of the oil industry, without conditions or justification for the development of the remaining concessions on the Portuguese coast, can be approved. in the coming weeks, this plenary of Members will again be called upon to decide on these urgent changes. The Portuguese Government's decision to sign the COP21 guidelines in Paris, in order to mitigate the disastrous impacts on the planetary scale resulting from climate change requires our rulers more than beautiful speeches, requires practical decisions that alter the disastrous evolution of the energy paradigm. The Prime Minister's position in Marrakesh at COP22 is to say that Portugal must be neutral in 2050 has consequences. To do this, we need to move forward further, not only by ending the remaining 12 contracts for oil and gas exploration in our country, but also by making a genuine revolution in public transport to radically reduce the use of individual transport and by making a revolution in renewable energy, attacking the remaining 40% fossils that still make up our electricity production. The planet is changing and we have to prepare for it. The time we live requires us to overcome the small and short thought of market stimuli. Instead, we must design and plan policies for a future with few or no greenhouse gas emissions. We looked at several cities here so close — Madrid, Paris, Athens — and we see that they have already committed to abolishing the use of diesel until 2025. We live in that time. The promise of being carbon neutral in 2050 is not enough, we have to be able to reach it as soon as possible. For this, we have to finish, as quickly as possible, with the remaining oil and gas concessions so that we can say that we not only have an oil-free Algarve, as we have a fossil-free country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u136	Mr Jorge Duarte Costa, the Bureau registered three Mrs to request clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u137	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u138	Thus, to ask for clarification, first of all, Mr José Carlos Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u139	Mr. President, Mr. Jorge Duarte Costa, I welcome the Block on the Left for bringing this important issue to debate. Confirming the news that came today to the public, I would begin by stressing that, as we have always said and defended, these contracts were, after all, very demanding from the environmental point of view and from the point of view of legal safeguard and enabled the State to hold its constant scrutiny. Moreover, what has been announced today is what the PSD defended in June this year, in accordance with its draft resolution, by insisting — I recall — on the need to assess the scrupulously compliance of contracts from a legal and environmental point of view, requiring the Government to act accordingly. To confirm today's news, the Prosecutor decides on why we defend, in particular, that, by failing to comply with the contracts, this would enable and oblige the immediate termination of the contract by the State. Finally, as we have always said, this situation shows that the importance of this subject justifies a high, serene, rigorous debate, without demagogy, on the contrary, unfortunately, of what has happened at times. On the other hand, by many people today, an apology may have been made to the former Minister of the Environment, Jorge Moreira da Silva, taking into account some ill-intended attacks, soezes, that during this process, at times, was a target.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u141	I therefore simply repeat the essentials of what we have always defended on this matter, asking Mr Jorge Duarte Costa if we see something new in this position. On the one hand, it is important not to confuse what are authorizations to map resources — and that is what is at the moment and has always been involved — with authorizations to exploit resources, which would involve a new involvement in the process, new weightings and decisions. On the other hand, it is necessary to assume, without hesitation, to reiterate as the starting point of any future discussion on exploitation, the clear understanding that for us tourism and environmental sustainability are the central elements of the Algarve development strategies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u142	To request clarification, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u143	Mr President, Mr Jorge Duarte Costa, the Government's decision to terminate a set of research and exploration contracts for oil and natural gas in the Algarve, announced this morning, confirms what the CFP has always stated, i.e. that the exploitation of our renewable and non-renewable energy resources is too important to move forward without a wide public debate and without being guaranteed the defence of national interests. The CFP followed closely from the outset the process of awarding concessions for the exploration and exploitation of oil and natural gas in the Algarve, and in 2011 denounced the option of the former Government, PSD / CDS, to resign the State of its responsibilities and deliver the exploitation of hydrocarbons to multinationals in the sector. Also at that time, the PCP Parliamentary Group questioned the previous Government about the need to study environmental impacts at the exploration and research stage and determine the measures to be taken by dealers to minimize these impacts and ensure the protection of the marine ecosystem. The CFP's intervention in this area, stressing the need to ensure the protection of environmental values and the safety of populations, led to the approval by the Assembly of the Republic last July of a draft resolution of the CFP that recommends to the Government the conduct of environmental impact assessments, determining the risks resulting from the exploration, research and exploration of oil and natural gas. This was an important step, because it politically links the Government to promoting these assessments. The country cannot be bound to research contracts and exploration of hydrocarbons that reveal themselves contrary to national interests. This is a subject which must be the subject of deep discussion and reflection in the framework of a broad public debate which will allow for a clear reflection of the advantages and disadvantages of the opportunity and conditions for the use of renewable and non-renewable national energy resources. I ask you, Mr Jorge Duarte Costa, to agree with the need to promote this debate on the energy sovereignty of Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u144	Mr Luís Graça has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u145	Mr. President, Mr. Jorge Duarte Costa, today the Government has solved a problem created by the former Government, PSD / CDS, a problem created on top of the elections and in deafness in the face of the ignorance of the entire community of the Algarve, of all the Algarve. That is the note that must be given here today. I repeat: the Government of the Socialist Party solved a problem created by the previous Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today we are also responding to those who said, on the part of the PSD, still recently, in the debates in committee, that this was a problem of who was against development and that this was a problem of challenging reformers, foreigners, people who did not want the development of the country. Don't! This decision taken today by the Government is good for the Algarve, is good for the country and is good for both, because it ensures what the Portuguese Government has signed and has recently undertaken to do in Paris at COP21, which we have reached a new energy age for sustainable development. Mr Jorge Duarte Costa, today, it is important to stress that the government has finally solved a problem created by the previous right coalition in the Algarve and that still needs to be resolved in the rest of the country. We must also say, without demagogy, that the Socialist Party will be available to hold a broad debate on what should be the energy model in Portugal and the contribution that the Algarve can make to renewable energies, to the strengthening of a cluster of renewable and sustainable energy for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u146	To reply, Mr Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u147	Mr President, Mr José Carlos Barros, raised a question about the nature of these contracts, stating that they were drafted in such a way, with so much detail and so much protection, that when they fell, they now showed how good they were. It is difficult to explain to people the logic of this argument, but it is sufficient to read that these contracts — those still in force — provide for the exploitation and production of oil and gas in Portugal. They clearly refer, throughout their entire process, to the right of prospecting, research, development and production of oil. That is what was put to the Government's signature and that is where Mr Moreira da Silva signed his signature. So much so that it was Paulo Carmona himself, the President of the National Fuel Market Entity – who, I believe, did not share the positions of the Left Block on this matter – who came to Parliament saying that the political option on oil and gas production in Portugal was already taken and had been taken by the government before signing these contracts with the dealers he chose to do so. This is therefore the beginning of a solution to the problem that has also been created by the previous government. Mr. Paulo Sá, what we have here is another case of dealers who, either because of their incompetence or their disinterest in the concession they had, eventually created a situation in which they could be reverted. Above all, what seems most important to us today is that we find the means to ensure that the concessions that are still in force are subject to rigorous processes, not only of environmental impact assessment, but also of public consultation, because it is this public consultation that allows us to debate the relevance of these businesses, these concessions and the energy model that the country needs and which is not part of the fossil model for the exploitation of hydrocarbons and also that we can bring this strong law to the table, as well as to change the legislation as regards the model of concessions that we have. For the Left Block, concessions must be subject to the policy of response to climate change, and there are demanding international standards, which Portugal subscribed by signing COP21, in Paris, and COP22, in Marrakesh. There is an essential principle that reservations that are not being exploited today should be kept on the ground. Therefore, today, we need not only stronger legislation to defend the country in terms of environmental impact assessments and public consultation and promoting this debate involving the populations, as we need to repeal the expired law of 1994 and ensure that the doctrine of combating climate change resulting from Paris and Marrakesh is poured into law to end all these concessions and to keep on the ground the reservations that are still to be explored. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u148	For a political statement, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The questions of Portuguese health have always been addressed to the CDS and we have followed them closely throughout this year of 2016, questioning the Minister of Health in committee and also here in plenary, in debates we have convened, and asking numerous questions to the Government. For us, it has always been at stake not a policy of cases, demagogic, of looking for sensationalism easy, but, yes, the responsibility of making politics in a positive, constructive way, pointing out errors and making proposals, and clearly that in health, consensus is desirable and necessary. Unfortunately, some of our recent proposals have not been approved by the parties that support the government and the desired health pact seems to be a distant illusion. After multiple promises and announcements that this would end austerity, that the SNS (National Health Service) would be a priority and after waiting for a last quarter of the wonder in which everything would be resolved—in Mr. Minister's words this would happen—the fact is that we have arrived at the end of this year with a situation of serious difficulties and commitment to the quality of clinical care in the SNS that no one can deny. The SNS, and with this the health of millions of Portuguese people, is strongly captured and threatened by captives, by late bills, by increasing debts. The increase in suppliers'debts and the increasing delay in payments, recognized even by ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ), centralization, which hampers rapid decision-making and led to the freezing of investments, the absence of replacement of obsolete material, which conditions unacceptable waiting lists for multiple complementary examinations and treatments, the lack of consumables and the lack of professionals, all this, Mrs. Members, as we have warned in due time, had a very negative impact on the provision of health care to Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u150	We say it here, but it is also, and above all, the various orders of health professionals that reaffirm it, with complaints that everyone should be concerned, is the association of hospital administrators and are the reports of the reality of health services that come to us every day. These are, in fact, the serious news of the last few days that certainly go beyond mere cases of dramatic intensity, as Mr. Minister of Health has described them today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u151	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u152	According to the most recent budget implementation data, EPE hospitals have a liability of EUR 1, EUR 2 billion. Between October 2015 and October 2016, the sector that contributed most to the increase in the volume of delays was precisely that of EPE hospitals, with 309 million euros behind schedule. The debt of public hospitals to the pharmaceutical industry and medical devices companies is already over EUR 1100 million. The reality proves that the CDS was right in its concerns, but more than that, what we deeply regret is how the health of Portuguese is being affected by the political options of this government, supported by those who, at least, and during the restrictive period of the financial assistance program we had to comply, spoke every day of blind cuts, of investment, of dismantling and destruction of the National Health Service. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Where are they now? Your silence is overwhelming and you will have to explain to the Portuguese the reason for your convenient blindness and selective change. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We warned about the imposing and unsaturated form of wage replacement, for the garrote of the precipitated 35-hour replacement...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u153	That's where he is! That's your concern!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u154	... and we were told that this corresponded to a bet on the human resources of the SNS. So, how do we now justify having hundreds of thousands of days off and extraordinary hours in debt to nurses? How do they justify that nurses continue not to be hired to ensure safety levels due to patients? How do they justify the absence of such a large number of other health professionals when they first knew that they were reducing working hours? Yes! As warranted, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u155	The teams have been taken to the limit, with situations of clear exhaustion, well-known especially in the younger professionals—see the latest study on burnout of doctors, and these are the situations that at no time combine with the proclaimed, but not fulfilled, concern of the government with the human resources of the SNS. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares.]] These human resources know today that they cannot count on the left-wing government to defend them! You can't count on the left-wing government to defend them! These are the same health professionals who today want to honor as a fundamental pillar of the SNS and ensure the provision of health care. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] You have forced hospitals and health centers this past year to tighten the belt in a clumsy way, putting in question a greater good, which is the health of the Portuguese. The containment measures they have applied in health, at the expense of which they want to control the deficit, reveal a social insensitivity that is shocking. They may want to forge a pink reality, of illusory collective happiness, but the truth is that it is far away, either from your kind promises, or from the facts that are there to lie to you, and all this with strong penalization of the lives of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u156	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u157	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The State budget for next year does not resolve the issue of underfinancing of the SNS and the Ministry of Health's money will, above all, pay debts, late bills, captives and wages. Where is the promised investment in health services?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u158	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u159	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. How will they do better and different, not disresponsibly or systematically excusing themselves with a recent past that has proved to be much better than this painful present? Portuguese need to maintain levels of confidence in health services, in their SNS. It is urgent to break this collective blow to the side about the reality in health, that the Government and the supporting left continue to maintain and that it is a serious disrespect by thousands of Portuguese. We will not deal with this silence and therefore demand quick answers and reaffirm today, here, that the Portuguese know that they can count on the CDS to ensure a better future for all. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u160	Four Members have signed up to request clarification from Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u161	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u162	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. You have the floor, first of all, to ask for clarification, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u163	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, came here to challenge us and call for a consensus, but then removed any possibility of consensus. The honourable Member denies the evidence, omits numbers and facts, so I don't know how we can begin to understand ourselves, starting from this lack of truth, this lack of objectivity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I say this because this year, the National Health Service has admitted more than 3200 health professionals, have opened more family health units, there have been a greater number of family doctors and, consequently, a smaller number of Portuguese without a family doctor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u164	You don't notice anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u165	this year there were a greater number of hospital specialists, a greater access to therapeutic innovation, there were more consultations, more surgeries, a greater number of beds in continuous care. These are facts, Your Honor! So, how does it justify what you stated when, in the last four years, it was conjugated with the greatest deployment of human resources in the National Health Service? Do you know, for example, that this year there were fewer retirements from doctors? That there was less emigration of doctors? What was the least out of doctors to the private sector? Do you know about this? I appreciate your reply. The CDS, in fact, speaks in consensus, but seems to have a bad conscience, rides in a corporate populism and in some way has even been giving a voice to some denunciation of Mrs. Bastonaria, who, we all know, is leader of a political party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u166	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u167	I will now finish, Mr President. Honestly, I do not understand what the honourable Member has wanted with this political statement, unless it gives voice to populism, which can only show some bad conscience. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u168	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u169	Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, thank you very much for your questions. You invoked my bad conscience here...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u170	It's not yours, it's your party!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u171	I have never judged yours and, therefore, I thank you not to judge mine, because I am, in fact, quite quiet. Would you like to ask the honourable Member what she has to say to the Portuguese in the face of the reports of reality, in the face of what the professional orders cantonaires say? Do you also have a bad conscience when you talk about reality, Your Honor? You can't deny that. It has to give answers to the Portuguese, not systematically scrutinizing in the past, it has to give answers to the Portuguese about the invoice they will pay for the price of captives, late payments, invoices. It is the Ministry of Health itself that recognizes it and that obviously will greatly limit investments in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u172	We hired another 3200 professionals!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u173	You can well proclaim promises, false announcements of what you understand, but you have been pushing your belly forward for a whole year, with false promises, not implementing a set of measures. Today, those Portuguese who go to the emergencies, who have their families hospitalized in cadreiros in hospitals, who have no one to feed them know who is right here is the CDS and who is actually missing the reality is the Socialist Party, the government and the parties who, silently and deliberately, support them. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u174	For clarifications, Mrs. Angela Guerra, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u175	Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, first of all, would like to thank you for the opportunity of the topic you have chosen and to tell you that, in fact, the times when the parties of this government were pretending to be concerned about the problems of the Portuguese people, throwing their hands on all the files to alarm public opinion and jeopardise citizens' confidence in the public health system. this year that the country takes from social-communist experience, Portugal is changing, but it is not for the better; unfortunately, it is for much worse and the health sector is the example of this. One year of leftovers in power and SNS funding not only did not increase in real terms as investment has decreased, and indeed, in a pronounced way. In just one year, the total SNS debt increased almost EUR 500 million and, between October 2015 and October 2016, late payments in SNS hospitals increased as V. Ex.a, EUR 309 million, i.e. there was an increase of almost 70 % in just one year. This absolute lack of control over the expenditure of the SNS led the Government, in despair, to apply what we call an authentic policy of the garrote, reaching the maximum example paradigm of this policy in Dispatches Nos. 45 / 2016 and 143 / 2016, which have strangled and captivated the capacity of autonomy and management of hospitals since they always require prior authorization of the government for any expenditure. The result is known to all: resources are withdrawn from hospital units, primary health care, and the announced reform of the SNS is an absolute burden, as well as demonstrates the huge increase in the number of hospital emergency care. One year ago, the Health Minister promised less than 225 000 emergencies, announcing an implementation plan, but, after one year, not only the emergencies were not reduced as expected an increase of more than 240 000 in 2015. It would be appropriate to ask: where is it for such a plan? And to use the words of the Minister of Health himself, who said «it means nothing else if not the lack of response from primary care, the lack of alternative recourse of citizens to emergencies», now we have unattended pregnant women, chaotic, uncontrolled emergencies, overcrowding of services, patients waiting hours, and even yesterday we even heard Mrs Bastonaria say that there are patients without food. What were the members of the Bloc, the PCP, who used to mask themselves from patient Musketeers and who now look to the side, when confronted with problems, or invoke—see—the people's iliteracy to justify the despair of people when they resort to emergencies? Madam Member, what I ask you is very simple: does this government recognise an absolute lack of reformist line and what balance does it take on the health of the SNS? [[PSD Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u176	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u177	Mrs. Angela War, thank you very much for your questions. As is clear, we agree with several aspects that Mrs Deputies mentioned, even because they are unquestionable, reality cannot deny them and one cannot, for government changes, say that what was reported at a certain time corresponded to a true cataclysm and today, purely and simply, limit, menacing, whitening what is the reality that is being denounced, after some union strike, which today cannot but denounce certain realities. What we know — and I insist, because this is the reality — is that, by the end of the period of financial assistance, what was required were other political options, which, in fact, were promised. It was said that it would end austerity and that it would change a set of things. So these are false promises, and I think you are. Ladies and gentlemen have heard the same as we have! The situation at present we cannot fail to qualify as misleading advertising. For us, all these cuts are not serious catches to the SNS and they call into question the social state. And once again we insist: where are those who, for the most part, and in a restrictive, painful framework that was imposed upon us and that we had to overcome, in which the options were completely different from those that are being taken now, every day they were talking about dismantling, destruction and de-investment? Where are those? They cannot reduce what is happening to thousands of Portuguese people and have a good opportunity here today to give an enlightening answer. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u178	Mr Carla Cruz, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, also has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u179	Mr President, I welcome Mrs Deputies and the CDS for bringing the issue of health to the debate, but, Madam Deputies, I begin by reviving her memory. It is recalled, Mrs. Member, when last year, before a television report showing exactly patients hospitalized in chairs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u180	Don't talk about Dr. Paulo Macedo.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u181	... in the corridors of a hospital, a State Secretary said "they are very well installed, I don't know what they have to say"? That's what I was saying. [[PCP applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] The honourable Member has come to say that she did not want to make a case policy. Madam Member, what you did in the rostrum was a policy of cases and homes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u182	They're home now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u183	Mrs Deputy, we believe that the health situation should be of concern to us, and we are concerned about the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party. But what the PSD and CDS want to do is whitewash the responsibilities of the current situation in the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u184	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u185	Neither professionals nor patients forget the brand of PSD and CDS in health policy for four years. They do not forget patients who died because they did not have access to the most appropriate therapy. If it were not a patient's call on the Health Committee, access to hepatitis treatment would certainly not have been resolved. Madam Member, patients do not forget the change in the administration of medicines for multiple sclerosis and HIV/AIDS. Professionals do not forget the closed attack that PSD and CDS have made on their rights. And what bothers the PSD and CDS is not the lack of professionals, it is the return of rights that the PSD has drawn during these latters What we want is a strengthened National Health Service...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u186	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u187	I conclude, Mr. President. Mrs. Deputy came to talk about a health pact, but what they did was to destroy and dismantle the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u188	Now Dr. Paulo Macedo will deal with the health of the Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u189	What we are doing and what Portuguese and professionals can count on with the PCP is an acermal defense of the National Health Service and a fight against what were the policies of the CDS and PSD in this area. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u190	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u191	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Carla Cruz for her comments and would like to remind her of something which seems to me to be very little present in this debate: it has already been a year of socialist governance that you support. And I would like to ask you a question: how long will it take you to assume, responsibly, the role of rulers in this country? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u192	Four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u193	How long will it take for you not to be systematically irresponsible about the past and to invoke aspects that we now know correspond to an improvement in the health of Portuguese people today? The health of Portuguese is worse today!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u194	With your responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u195	As for cases, he never heard us say, because we do not make cases policy, in the previous government, that everything was good in health and that there were no problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u196	But say it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u197	You're going to review our interventions. So don't put what wasn't said in the CDS' mouth. But now I would like to say something to you: Dr. Paulo Macedo doesn't need defenders, but in fact, he did an excellent job in front of the Ministry of Health, seriously, competent and rigorously. Or do you have any doubts about that? If you have any doubts, you should ask the Socialist Party why you now choose it to manage the largest Portuguese public bank. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u198	Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, said from the gallery that health is a concern of the CDS-PP. It has forgotten to say that it is a concern of the year 2016. The CDS-PP only has social concerns when it's in opposition, which is to be taken into account. Everybody knows that. We know that when he was in the government, in the face of the situation of the National Health Service, what was heard from the CDS-PP was silence. We know that some places in the government forced the silence and complicity of the CDS-PP to be silenced: failure in emergencies — silence of the CDS-PP; reduction of professionals in health — silence of the CDS-PP; increase in the use of private entities because the public was reducing its capacity — silence of the CDS-PP! unlike the CDS, the Left Block has been next to the professionals, TDT (diagnosis and therapy technicians), for example, because of the review of their careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u200	He's not next to the patients!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u201	She's been by the nurses' side because of the extraordinary hours. He presented a proposal to amend the State budget for an extraordinary competition in 2017 with a view to hiring more nurses. Mrs. Deputy, what I really liked—and I thanked you for answering, because in previous interventions you did not answer the most uncomfortable questions—it was to know what contribution the CDS-PP actually made when the Government supporting the National Health Service reduced by 4,400 professionals between 2010 and 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u202	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u203	When the CDS-PP was in the government they cut the budget of the National Health Service. What was the contribution of the CDS-PP?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u204	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u205	Mr President, I conclude with this question: when the working conditions of health professionals deteriorated, forcing, for example, 3 000 doctors to leave the public to the private, what was your contribution, Mrs Deputies? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u206	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u207	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, I would like to thank you for your comments, but to say that, unfortunately, once again, you return to the record of the past and come with talks and tugs about a period that we do not deny, which was a period of great difficulties in which we live limitations imposed by financial assistance. I do not believe that we are now — it is now that we have to discuss — under financial assistance. In any case, I would like to remind the honourable Member that whoever saved the captured SNS, who was threatened by debt amounts — in no way is what we had at the end of the legislature — that was the previous government, when it paid the debts that the socialist government has left, debts that fully threatened the provision of health care. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u208	You are happy to support a government that currently has an indebted State, a State that compromises the provision of health care. And a indebted state compromises a social state. Don't tell me that at the moment the social state is not threatened. It is deeply threatened, and you are consistent with that, you cannot deny it! [[CDS-PP applause.]] I would like to end — and already in other debates we have referred to this — by saying: we have made proposals, we have made proposals before and now we are in another context, in which governance should be different, because I insist on reminding you that we are not under financial assistance. Indeed, we made concrete proposals to support the most vulnerable people, to support families, caregivers, and I regret that we did not have the consensus — that was what I spoke about recently — for aspects that are transversal to all sides.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u209	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u210	We can bring together a strong consensus to improve the health of Portuguese. That is what we are interested in, and right now, in this context, you cannot deny what the orders of health professionals say, what the unions say, who are starting to talk. So once and for all, you have to decide which side you are on in order not to have a 'no' policy here, saying one thing and doing another when you get to the vote. The Portuguese understand what's going on. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u211	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic, the governors and the public authorities have to intervene in the situation that is occurring in the CTT company and in the public postal service and in the seriousness of the problems that are being felt by users and postal workers. Postal service has always been vital for populations, particularly within the country or on the islands, with the connection to the lives of populations, contrary to isolation and abandonment. They've closed schools, courts, parish boards. Hundreds of stations and CTT posts have been closed: 564 since 2009! And now it's the mailing distribution itself that's being degraded. The representative structures of the company's workers, and in particular the SNTCT ( National Trade Union of Mail Workers and Telecommunications ), have recently pointed out concrete situations in 32 postal distribution centres, from several points in the country, where at least one place where mail is only being distributed once a week was identified. For years, alerts and complaints of such problems have come to the Assembly of the Republic. But now we have the systematic account with the specific reference of cases like these. And we have no doubt that many others exist and that they are to be identified. 132 situations were pointed out in 55 CDPs (post-distribution centres) where postal distribution is carried out with the so-called « double turn », i.e. using the availability of portfolios that work beyond the distribution that is assigned to them on their journey. There are letters that stay several days at the postal distribution center waiting to be delivered. There may be 15 days' delay or more on the arrival of the postal vouchers with retirement pensions. And then the retired goes from station to station and there's no money anywhere. This happens repeatedly in various regions of the country. We have the report of hundreds of slots, that is, distribution of subcontracted mail to individuals, to companies that at each time may or may not guarantee the service and that are not framed in the structure of the TTCs and are not replaced by them if they are missing. There is a discharacterization and general disarticulation in mail stations and the work that must be done there to ensure the postal public service. Stations were transformed into bazaars and postal service workers transformed into book sellers, disks, stationery materials, etc. etc. etc. Now, as if it were not enough, they put a bank inside the post office, with all the requirements of service and operation for their workers and for the care of the populations. There are dozens of mail stations, specifically pointed by the workers, where waiting lines and waiting times become unbearable for users while employees are placed by the company, not in service to the postal service, but in banking service. However, in this same company, a real collective redundancies operation is being carried out, through letters for mutual terminations for workers in various areas, from North to South of the country. The official source of the TTCs stated for the social communication that the company started — and I quote — « a process of human resources optimization ». However, the TTCs have a business agreement which would allow such ‘optimisations’ — if that were really what they were dealing with. There was no need to destroy jobs. Clearly, that is not what is at stake. The company wants to put workers in unemployment, when, in fact, there is a lack of staff in various sectors. Moreover, this process has the aggravating to raise complaints from workers about pressures, blackmails, moral harassment. The CFP has already confronted the Government with the need for a very clear response to this situation and to this action of the TTCs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u213	The PS will answer today!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u214	... whether it concerns ensuring the quality and regularity of the postal public service or the rights of workers and their working conditions. And today, in the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, a requirement of the CFP was approved to hear in the Assembly of the Republic the organizations representative of the workers of the CTT and also ANACOM ( National Communications Authority) on this situation. We are faced with a picture that is inseparable from the privatisation of TTCs and which confirms the warnings we have always manifested in the fight against this process. What this reality has shown is that, once again, it is the sacrifices of almost all who are giving a lot of money to some. Only between January and September of this year, the profits of TTCs reached EUR 46 million. This amounts to 72, 1 million registered in 2015, 77, 2 million in 2014, 61 million in 2013. And almost all this money, at a value that increases from year to year, is distributed in dividends to the economic groups to which the previous government sold the company. For shareholders and TTC administrators, the table may be « optimization», but for mail users, for mail workers, for people voting for abandonment, there is no ‘optimization’, which actually exists more quickly if it could be called ‘pessimization’ at all levels. It is that, in order to ensure this policy of maximum profits for economic groups, they are imposing bad working conditions, bad conditions for the provision of public service, bad situations and very serious problems on a daily basis of all those who need postal services such as quality public service, development factor, social and territorial cohesion. It is imperative that there be political will to address the interests of the large economic groups which control the TTCs today and to put an end to this policy of attack on the public service and its workers. We therefore welcome the struggle of the workers and users of the post offices and continue, side by side with the populations, to intervene in the defense of the postal public service and the TTCs, truly at the service of the people and the country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u215	Mr Bruno Dias, two Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u216	I will answer individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u217	After all, Mr, there are three Members who are registered. First of all, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u218	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, first of all I would like to congratulate you on bringing to the debate such an important matter in terms of public service, because, in fact, the Post Offices of Portugal, while belonging to the State, were an excellent example of the provision of good postal services to citizens, with a recognised quality, both nationally and internationally. And even though the work of the last administrations, who sought to weaken the quality of the service provided to the Portuguese, whose responsibility must be assigned to the last boards of administration but also to whom they were appointed, nevertheless, the public service provided by the CTT, by the State, continued to be the guarantor of access for all citizens, on equal terms and at affordable prices, to this huge and important public service. Despite this management, whose responsibility, I repeat, will have to be shared with those who appointed it, this public company continued to be a net contributor in terms of revenue to the State. In view of these elements, we have reason to continue to question what led the PSD/CDS government to privatize a company that, in addition to providing public service in an exemplary manner to citizens, still represented a source of revenue for the State. It was not understood, as, in fact, it is still not understood. But more: PSD and CDS are very concerned, as seen in the first political statements, with education and with health, but we saw what they did with education and with health when they were government. They also said that with the privatisation of TTCs, the public service would be ensured. We knew, and they probably also knew, that in private priorities, in the calculations they make, the public service has no relevance, what is important is to boost the profit of shareholders, and it is normal, because it is not the private companies that have to deal with the public interest, that governments have to keep in mind the public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u219	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u220	I will finish, Mr. President. What Mr Bruno Dias wanted to ask was whether those who at the time opposed the privatization of this important company, who, in addition to providing a quality public service, still brought revenues to the State, were right or not when they were concerned not only with the quality of the service provided but also with redundancies, what is now called soft « optimization of human resources».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u222	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u223	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, on the part of the CFP, we have been following with great concern over the years what has been done in the Post Office and we have for many years denounced what has been done not only after privatisation but also — it must be said — in an authentic preparation operation for the privatization of post offices. That is why we have denounced it and have been on the ground, alongside the people, the autarchs, the local electors, the union leaders and workers' organisations, in the fight against the closure of post stations and post offices. We still remember that in just over five years, the number of mail stations increased from 900 to 617 and the number of mail stations increased from 1990 to 1709. Hundreds of postal establishments were closed and removed from populations. And now what we have is that, also in the postal distribution, that is, the very presence, the field, the distribution of mail, this fundamental presence for the populations, which is worth more than one letter, worth more than one order, is human contact with populations, so often isolated — elderly, reformed, which are far from access to urban centres, to which this contact makes a huge difference — is now being degraded and withdrawn in a very visible way. The postal service is more than this service, which is fundamental to the population and to the functioning of the State itself. It must be borne in mind that even in the Assembly of the Republic and in public services, in almost all sectors, there is reflection, result and implications of the difficulties and failures of the postal service, even in the operation itself and in the timely information, whether invoices or payments, whether notifications, or even more serious and dramatic cases, such as retirement pensions, which are very late for pensioners, pensioners and the elderly. That is why, once and for all, we must look at this "magnificent and extraordinary" work of the previous government and congratulate the PSD and CDS on the "magnificent" result of the privatization they have made. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u224	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Heitor Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u225	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I would like to begin by welcoming your statement and the essential political content of it, with which we are fully identified, especially in the diagnosis of the shortcomings and setbacks that have existed in the provision of the universal public postal service. from this point of view, the question is as indisputable as it is true that today, during the meeting of the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, to which we both belong, it was unanimously approved either the hearing of the National Trade Union of Workers of Mails and Telecommunications, or that of the regulatory entity itself, ANACOM, to come to provide clarification on this matter so important that it was brought here in its political statement. In any case, Mr President, I believe that there are some aspects which, perhaps, would deserve a comment on your part. It is true that Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto spoke recently about the need for the Left Block to defend the social state in all its valences, but she must probably have forgotten that the national and universal postal service is exactly part of that social state that needs to be defended. And what we have seen in relation to this national postal service is that, since the moment it was privatized, that is, since 2014, it has been successively degrading, day after day, in the care of people, either in the quality of service delivery, or in the access channels of the populations to the national postal service. Finally, Mr President, I just wanted to ask you whether those quality indicators of national postal service that the postal services continue to fulfil,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u226	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u227	... in particular the delivery of normal mail within a maximum of three working days or the delivery of blue mail within a maximum of one working day, with what you said on some points, where the delivery of mail became...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u228	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u229	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, mail delivery at some points has become limited to once a week, so I would like to ask you if you do not think that this failure to comply with these quality indicators would already deserve strong intervention by the regulatory entity, ANACOM, in order to quickly correct this situation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u230	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u231	Mr President, Mr Heitor Sousa, a thank you for the matter you have raised. In fact, we greatly appreciate the unanimous approval of the PCP requirement, which occurred this morning in the Committee on Economic Affairs, in order to take this discussion forward and deepen, giving the floor, in the Assembly of the Republic, to the representative organisations of the employees of the company, which were in fact the first to alert and bring concrete information about the grave situation that is going through the public service postal but also to the regulatory entity, which, in accordance with the law, has no responsibility to verify, monitor and act according to the specific situations that exist on the ground. And they are very serious, very worrying, very revolting, because of the situation of abandonment of the populations they make up, as a result of the previous government's privatization policy. We must therefore act, and we must act in the Assembly of the Republic, taking steps to draw attention and to deepen the debate, in order to solve the problems and to confront the authorities of the State with this matter, until we can remain for general debates and general considerations, by stating that the postal public service is a vital element for territorial cohesion, for social cohesion, for the connection to autonomous regions. Again recently, we have had once again on the ground by the PCP, the intervention, the struggle and the alert for what is happening in the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores and for what is being felt by the populations in an increasingly serious way in the regions of the interior of the country. And, therefore, the failure to comply with the obligations and requirements that the public service must set—and there are, in fact, very imaginative and creative ways of disguise or trying to manipulate numbers—is something that must deserve a very clear, very firm and very determined response by the State authorities and, of course, by the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u232	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u233	... but it must make us reflect on these policies of privatization and liberalization which, over the years, have been imposed on this country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u234	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u235	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, first of all, thank you very much for bringing this issue to debate. It is an opportunity for the Socialist Party to ask up to a more comprehensive question than that which led to this debate. Mr President, I would like to ask you for your opinion on what was the PSD and CDS strategy in the last government, regarding privatizations and how they privatized, wrong and law, strategic sectors of the country, without precaution of the interests of the people. It is true that the PSD and CDS strategy had budgetary motivations and it was revealed that, already in the opposition, it has allowed the PSD and CDS to say that foreign direct investment at that time has grown a great deal. The concrete question I wanted to ask Mr Bruno Dias is whether he does not consider that these privatisations or some of the privatizations that were made by the PSD and the CDS — privatizations of strategic sectors — have delivered important assets from the country abroad, and that have done so in a little weightless and uncautious manner, once again I repeat, the interests of the people and the country. They did not add anything to the country, because they did not create new jobs or create new assets and did not bring what is very important, creative entrepreneurship for foreign direct investment. I would therefore like to leave this question, which seems very relevant to, on the one hand, dismantle, dismantle the idea of the PSD and the CDS-PP that they have done a lot about foreign direct investment and, on the other hand, dismantle the idea that the privatizations they have made were privatizations that have only brought good things to the country and in the interest of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u236	In reply, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u237	It's moving towards nationalization now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u238	I've heard that tape 30 times.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u239	I already called the union!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr President, I am seeing the CDS-PP very active right now, with departures, but it seems to me that there is no request for clarification on the part of the CDS-PP, is there not? It is that, for those who are apart, they are there but to participate in the debate it seems that there is no great will. As the other said: “Not a little postcard, not a letter, not anything! », it is not true, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u241	Mr President, I ask you to respond to requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u242	Mr. President, in the two minutes I have available I think I can choose what I'm going to say, right?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u243	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u244	I am continuing, Mr President, to congratulate the honourable Member on having come to this debate, contrary to others, that if they wanted to turn to silence, you know why you weigh on your conscience. [[CDS-PP protests.]] We wanted to draw attention to a very objective fact. This is another case that demonstrates and confirms what the CFP said many years ago, i.e. that privatisations do not bring any jobs, privatizations destroy jobs! [[Exactly!]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u245	They promote the destruction of jobs, as is happening in the TTCs right now. They promote the attack on workers' rights and the attack on public service and the quality of service to populations. So we say it is very important that there is an evaluation of privatizations, because there was a time when it was very difficult,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u246	So there isn't? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u247	... very hard to fight the privatizations and the inevitability that were presented and imposed on the Portuguese. And that idea, which we have always said—and for which we have even been criticized sometimes—of being firmly opposed to the privatization of TTCs is something that today life and reality demonstrate that we were right. Creative entrepreneurship, Mr and Mr President, only if it is even in the presentation of results and in the quality of public service arrangements, which is increasingly, creatively, to be dismantled, degraded and destroyed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u248	You have the floor for a political statement, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens also do not wish to let this plenary pass without addressing a news of the day, insofar as it came to the public that the Government terminates concession contracts for research and exploitation of oil and natural gas, attributed to Portfuel - Petroleum and Gas of Portugal, Lda and to the Consortium Repsol / Partex. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would not like to let this matter go, as the Greens have repeatedly and insistently brought this matter to the Assembly of the Republic. We think this news is positive. The position of The Greens has been very clear: we have denounced the fact that on the eve of elections the previous government has concluded such contracts, when we consider that it was not legitimate to do so — political legitimacy, of course — and, from the start of these processes, we have shown our total opposition to these contracts for the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. We always defend the termination of these contracts and, before that, not to celebrate them. Why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Because we think we can't just say one thing and do another. And the truth is that all benches have a speech on climate change, the need to decarbonize the country at all levels, but then, when faced with concrete elements and concrete experiences, they often take positions contrary to that same speech. And the conclusion or defense of oil exploration and research contracts is precisely part of this contradiction. It is that if we want to decarbonise the country, we must act at all levels so that fossil fuels are, in fact, furnished with our individual life and with our collective life. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that this matter deals with what is often closed in the speeches and that it is related to the kind of development that we want for our country, especially when we talk about the Algarve, where this matter was, in fact, quite contested and raised very interesting and very active movements of population. In fact, when we think that there are certain regions of the country and its populations that depend on the sea, the landscape, the balance of ecosystems; when they depend on fishing and those fundamental activities; when they depend on the culture of bivalves and tourism that you want to walk in a logic of sustainability and of greater balance, then, Mrs and Mrs. Members, we realize that oil exploration and research are not compatible with such development. And, in fact, here again there is a contradictory element we have denounced several times. There were still Mrs. and Mrs. Members who often argued that eventually the country would be winning in the event of oil being discovered in our territory, and that was not true, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us put the sentence in the present — and that is not true! It's just that this oil might not be from the state, it would be from the companies! And the royalties that would be paid would be absolutely minimal. Therefore, the State would not even be strictly earning anything with that. In addition, we have often also heard the argument that it was a research issue and would never reach the stage of exploitation, which is not true either! They made us crazy, because the contracts were unique titles, in fact, we will put the sentence in the present, the contracts are unique titles for the research phase and the exploitation phase. And companies, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are not altruistic, when they take the research it is because they want exploitation, of course. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, following this very clear position of the Greens, we have taken several initiatives in the Assembly of the Republic to contribute to the concrete solution of the matter. Thus, we proposed the suspension of contracts to launch a real debate on development which we want for certain regions of our country, we proposed the revision of the environmental impact assessment regime to make the impact assessment of these operations more comprehensive and also more accurate and we proposed in this Chamber in 15-year debates with Mr Prime Minister a very rigorous monitoring of these contracts and these companies for the purposes of termination. That is the good news that now comes to us, with respect to contracts with Portfuel - Petroleum and Gas from Portugal, Lda and Repsol / Partex. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Greens Ecological Party welcomes the termination of these contracts, but would like to warn us of the following: we believe that there are other contracts, which are still in force, and that the public interest will only be effectively continued with the termination of all contracts for research and exploitation of natural gas and oil in our country. I give you one last word, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's worth a fight. I believe that today's news is a concrete proof that it is worth fighting. For this public interest to continue, in full, throughout the country, it will be worth continuing to fight. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u250	Two Mrs were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has just informed the Bureau that she will answer together, so Mr João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u251	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, today was a very important day for the Algarve, we had excellent news. He won a battle, but he's not yet winning the war. Indeed, the news we have had today, and the results they will follow, are the result of the struggle of both the social movements, the populations and the autarchs. Much has also contributed to this outcome the struggle that the Left Block has been fighting since the beginning, as soon as these contracts have been announced. By the way, what does the PSD have to say about this?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u252	Again? Oh, my God! We have already submitted a report to the National Fuel Market Authority on this situation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u253	Nothing, absolutely nothing when the Minister of the Environment of the former Government signed these contracts a few days from the elections... [[It's true!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u254	Indeed, the PSD has nothing to say about this situation that we live in the Algarve and Country. It must be said that the exploitation of hydrocarbons is incompatible with tourism, it is incompatible with several economic activities, it is incompatible with agriculture and other activities. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, what you will have to say, given that we have achieved an important victory, but that we need to take further steps in this area. The Left Block will be determined and ready to continue this fight. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u255	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Paulo Sá, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, as has been said, today the Government announced the termination of a set of research and exploration contracts for oil and natural gas in the Algarve, on land and in the sea. The CFP has closely followed from the outset the process of awarding these concessions by the former PSD/CDS-PP Government, in particular with regard to environmental issues. As of March 2012, the PCP Parliamentary Group required the previous PSD/CDS-PP Government to carry out environmental impact assessments, including in the initial phase of exploration and research, to determine the measures that dealers should take to minimize environmental impacts and ensure the protection of the marine ecosystem. The former PSD/CDS-PP government, with a high dose of political hypocrisy, declared itself very attentive to environmental issues, but basically refused to carry out these environmental impact assessments, which would be reiterated throughout its government and until 2015, when it was again questioned by the CFP. But we don't give up! The CFP insisted on this matter and, as you know, on 1 July, the Assembly of the Republic approved a draft CFP resolution recommending that the Government carry out environmental impact assessments, also in the initial phase of oil and natural gas exploration. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I think you will agree that this has been an important step, because it politically links the government to promote these environmental impact assessments. The exploitation of our national, renewable and non-renewable energy resources must, in the opinion of the CFP, be the subject of a broad public debate which will enable us to reflect, in an informed and clear manner, the advantages and disadvantages, the opportunity and the conditions for the use of these national energy resources. Therefore, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I ask you to agree with the need to promote a broad debate on our country's energy options. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u257	In reply, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Vasconcelos for the considerations he has made and Mr Paulo Sá for the questions he has raised. I am also very quick to say the following: yes, we consider this to be good news, as I have just mentioned in my speech. But in any case, we believe that the public interest was not definitely ensured by the terminations of announced contracts. There are others and we believe that the pursuit of public interest would imply that we can say definitely — and this is the position of The Greens — that there is no research, nor will there be exploitation of oil and natural gas in our country. On the other hand, Mr Paulo Sá, we believe that the contribution that all parties have made here in the Assembly of the Republic, those who have given it of course, was certainly relevant and important and that all the discussions we have made here have certainly contributed to this necessary debate as well. I have no doubt, Mr President, that they also served to alert the government to the steps and to the attention it would need to give to this problem. I am sure, Mr President, that if the Greens, for example, had not raised this issue to the Prime Minister in a number of 15-year debates, eventually the Prime Minister would not have a concrete and direct conscience on this matter as he might now have, as could other ministers. We have received direct answers from Mr. Prime Minister regarding concrete actions that he could take to interfere with the research and oil exploration contracts in the Algarve. The Greens believe that they had an obligation to give a push to inform and pressure the government on this matter. Mr Paulo Sá asks me whether we do not think there should be a broad debate on the energy issues of the country. Yes, Mr President, our answer is very concrete: we believe so. We believe that the information will necessarily lead to the awareness of the type of development that we really want. We want to be as self-sufficient as much as possible, of course, but we want to bet, and I am sure that there is a consensus at national level on this matter, mainly in clean energy and in everything that can result in a genuine decarbonisation of the country and a reduction in energy consumption. The Greens are here to launch this debate and essentially also to encourage it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u259	You now have the floor for an intervention under Article 76 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs Isabel Moreira, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in democracies the law is not dead letter. Our Rules of Procedure give me the right, like any Member or Member, to make a political declaration of my full responsibility. I am therefore lucky to live in democracy and use these regiment minutes to refuse to ignore the symbolic force of Luaty Beirut's presence in Portugal and today in Parliament. Given my personal involvement and that of so many people here present and absent in support of all the initiatives aimed at the release of the 17 Angolan political prisoners and, after Luaty Beirut had not had good news from this House during his imprisonment, now, being free and present here, I have to say something to myself in a democratic Parliament. I was present at the release of Luaty's book, I'm freer, then, and I witnessed the victory of courage over fear. As in Stig Dagerman's book, with the impressive title Our Need for Comfort is impossible to satisfy, Luaty happened to physical imprisonment, but some knife touched his conscience. Luaty Beirão was illegally arrested on June 28, 2015 when he participated in a debate session on a text by Sundays of the Cross, based on the work of Gene Sharp, from the dictatorship to Democracy. Another 16 Angolan activists were also imprisoned. He was sentenced to a five-year sentence, in a process with unimaginable contours, by preparatory acts for the rebellion of wrongdoers. Luaty Beirão is not, and never wanted to be, a victim. As has already been said, Luaty was not caught unaware of committing a crime. Luaty challenged a dictatorship. He played with the courage to show the world precisely that Angola is a brutal dictatorship, cleptocratic, without freedom, corrupt and enjoying the subservience of those who benefit from its real ideological characteristic: money. The Angolan Constitution, with a president for more than 40 years in power, affirms, after all, the state of democratic law, that sovereignty belongs to the people, guarantees the electoral process freely and democratically exercised, contains the legal guarantees that pacify a careless reading and, as far as fundamental rights are concerned. The Angolan constitution affirms everything that has been denied to the so-called « group of 17 », such as the inviolability of the moral, intellectual and physical integrity of people, respect for and protection of the person and human dignity, the inviolability of correspondence and communications, the right to physical freedom and personal security. He affirms that everyone has the right to express, disseminate and freely share their thoughts, ideas and opinions by word, image, or any other means, as well as the right and freedom to inform themselves and to be informed, without impediments or discrimination. It prohibits censorship, guarantees freedom of the press. Freedom of assembly and demonstration and guarantees of criminal proceedings are similar to those enshrined in the Portuguese Constitution. For some, strangely enough, just read this and be quiet. It would be like reading Article 8. the Constitution of 1933, which even freedom of association consecrated, and sleep well. I was just saying that Luaty Beirut wasn't, and I never meant to be, a victim. As in Portugal so many challenged the Portuguese dictatorship by putting it naked before the international order, as in Portugal so many challenged the Portuguese dictatorship, in particular insisting, in a political and patriotic attitude, to publish press contrary to the regime. Luaty Beirut did exactly the same. [[Congratulations from BE, PS and PS and the CDS-PP Member Teresa Caeiro.]] He kept the letter of the law at every step he took. He complied with all the formalities before proceeding to any meeting / demonstration, tried to comply with the law during the trial and was arrested and convicted in total disregard of the law. So he fired the regime! We already knew that José Eduardo dos Santos has been in power for over 40 years. We already knew that elections in Angola are a farce. We already knew that the so-called heroes of Angolan independence, the so-called heroes of anticolonialism, betrayed any epithet and turned their country into a private colony, mimicking the colonizer. Just read Frantz Fanon, among others, about the matter. We already knew that a corrupt dome with good international receivers deprives millions of Angolans and Angolans of decency, these, yes, abandoned Democrats. We already knew that to talk about this was to risk being called Saudiers of colonialism. But there are also those who know that this accusation is the cowardice of conviviality, while corruption is perpetuated, the series of disappearances and deaths to be explained and illegal prisons.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u262	That's why I have to talk about Luaty Beirut. After him, after his political courage, many shadows gained luminosity. Making the decision to go into hunger strike for 36 days from 21 September 2015 was not a trivial decision. As has already been said, in an era in which, unfortunately, we again speak of the triviality of evil, it is appropriate not to trivialize courage. Luaty Beirut went to the limit so that it would not, but what happens in Angola, what happens to the Angolan people, won international echo. You did it! It goes to the end and does not accept amnesty, because it did not commit any crime. If the Supreme Court does not give him reason, he may be re-incarcerated. Luaty Beirut brought to debate the most perverse essence of a dictatorship, the one that paints in the law the democratic regime of the receivers of the brutal power of his money, the one whose only ideology is corruption safeguarded by the illegal and abusive force, the one that keeps killing the voices, controlling the press, which today, in Angola, is the means of official propaganda of the regime, the one that needs quiet people. Today we are talking about the case of the 17 and, from it, of many other cases and the future of Angola, which we all hope to see better days. This is not an issue of interference in internal affairs. This is a political issue! You did it, Luaty! The fight continues! Freedom, now! [[Congratulations from BE (on foot), PAN, PS and PSD (on foot) and CDS-PP Member Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u263	Mrs. Members, having no requests for clarification, we will now enter point 2 of our agenda, which consists in the discussion of petition No 92 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Submitted by Carla Sofia Castanheira do Paço and others, requesting the amendment of the special education legal regime. For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pontedeira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, the authors and subscribers of the petition in appreciation and stress the importance of the active participation of citizens in political life, which constitutes a strengthening of participatory democracy and effective citizenship. It is undeniable for everyone the relevance and importance of what petitioners ask this House to do: changes to the legal regime of special education. Although we are a country with progress, and very important progress, in inclusive education, with European indicators that tell us that about 98% of disabled students are integrated into our schools — and we consider this to be a civilizational achievement — we also recognize that, often, and often too often, students are integrated, yes, but truly included, not. We also have a way to go about meeting the principles of inclusion, particularly with regard to education. In fact, problems in special education, problems with inclusive education are largely identified. We all know about the predominance of action in the area of education. Do not act to reverse a picture that during the past four years has been penalizing for education and much in particular for special education is to irremediablely compromise the development process of many children and young people. It is to compromise inclusive public school, it is to compromise the construction of an inclusive society that respects dignity, which promotes citizenship and participation. The fight for inclusive school therefore requires the mobilization of all, whether they are educational agents, parents or political decision makers. We recognize that this Government has, in its programme and political agenda, inclusive education as a priority. The working group for the development of inclusive education has been set up and is already completing its work, which will enable us to have a legislative and regulatory framework which will certainly meet many of the demands for inclusive education in Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is fully committed to affirming and defending inclusive education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u265	For an intervention, Mrs Laura Magalhães of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to begin by greeting the petitioner, and mother, Carla Sofia do Paço and, in her person, to greet all 4306 petitioners who have subscribed to this petition to request the amendment of the legal regime of special education. I would like to tell you that the sensitivity of this matter is a matter of concern to the PSD and, in this sense, because we consider it essential to give voice to all those who are dealing with these matters today, within the framework of the social policy forum that is being developed by us, this was also a matter discussed at one of the many round tables that we have done throughout the country in close dialogue with various entities and experts on the subject. For us, of course: to have inclusive education, more diversification, flexibility and curricular adaptation is needed. Equal rights and opportunities should be seen in the light of the individual's abilities and needs, always respecting their differences, but never making them different. But the PSD's concern about these matters is not at present. The PSD, when it was in government, did not forget these issues: it strengthened specific support for all students with special educational needs, from training and support for teaching practice, to the creation of more than 70 specialized and structured support units in public schools, maintaining financial support for private and cooperative schools, and strengthened resource centres for inclusion, with certification of a greater number of entities and their financial resources, among many other things. However, there is still much to be done. There are many needs of these children and young people, as well as of their families, which need to be filled. It is clear to us that there is a need to review and update the regulatory framework for special education, but there is also a need for more effective monitoring of existing legislation and ensuring the proper working conditions of what already exists. It is necessary to harmonise eligibility criteria and concepts, simplifying and flexible procedures, simplifying the curriculum by the school, which, not confusing with reducing or simplifying the curriculum, ensures the essential learning of compulsory education. It is necessary to strengthen prevention and intervention mechanisms timely in the first signs of difficulty in learning, to update the initial continuing and specialized training of teachers and to strengthen the access and quality of support for a more timely diagnosis and intervention, early intervention in fundamental knowledge, multidisciplinary structures and human resources training, and to redefine the intervention model of resource centres for inclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u267	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u268	I conclude by saying that we are in keeping with the purpose of this petition in order to continue the work done in the previous Parliament, in particular in the sense of the current Government to comply with the various recommendations that have been adopted. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u269	by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u270	Mr President, first of all, I would like to greet Carla Sofia Castanheira do Paço and other petitioners. This petitioner is the mother of a special school student who, under a diagnosis, has disturbances in the spectrum of autism. in fact, she comes to us with an alert with which the Left Block is generally in agreement. The points that this mother refers to the deficiencies, weaknesses and problems of the current legislation on special education and special education are the problems for which the Left Block has been alerting over time. This mother states that the situation of children who are allowed to postpone entry into school should be cautioned, in the same way that the Left Block has warned about the importance of early intervention and early signaling these children, equating immediate support when a request for postponement of admission occurs. This mother calls for temporary educational measures to meet special needs of a transient and non-permanent nature, which is absolutely right for these children to be rescued from alternative courses or special education, when they cease to need them. This mother calls for measures to respond to very specific learning needs, which is common sense, and a new educational measure—and this is very important—, more flexible than the current PEI (individual educational programme) and CIS (individual specific curriculum) that actually create pedagogical ghettos, and that is a need that has been identified by the different educational actors with intervention in special education. With regard to this and equal justice, this mother also requests that a pedagogical certification of the school course carried out by students with an individual education programme be guaranteed but, above all, with a specific individual curriculum, because today a student who reaches the end of the individual specific curriculum does not have any type of pedagogical certification, which has been a reason for the exclusion of these young people. As the petitioner says, special education does not have to have just a color, a measure, a label. Special education should be diversified and adapted to the needs of each child. We couldn't agree more. The Government created a working group to study an amendment to Decree-Law No. 3 / 2008, which is precisely the legislation that this mother identifies as problematic legislation. The Left Block today does not present here a project as a sign of expectation regarding the revision of that diploma, which is being organized by the Government, and which has indeed had the agreement of all banks, including the PSD and the CDS, which is good, because in this area we need consensus. At least we have a consensus on the problems, and we will now try to have a consensus on the solutions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u271	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, the petitioners, thanking the concerns they bring about a matter as important as that of special education and the guarantee of an inclusive public school. The CFP has repeatedly presented concrete proposals that aim to ensure the effective inclusion and integration of children and young people with special educational needs, as well as to combat and defeat the discrimination and exclusion that still exist. over several years, successive governments have either taken measures or taken measures that have limited and prevented the effective follow-up and inclusion of these children, a reality that has experienced a profound worsening with the Government of the PSD and the CDS, which cut in the funds for special education and special education allowance, which implemented a portarium that virtually withdrew from school secondary school students with special educational needs, measures that, among others, meant a deep backwardness. As the PCP has stated, the effective inclusion of children and young people with special educational needs is inseparable from strengthening human, material and technical resources that respond to the needs that exist, as well as reducing the number of students per class, in order to ensure closer follow-up of these children. But it's important to go further. It is important to adapt the conditions of the teaching-learning process to respond to the educational needs identified. It is important that there are support structures for these children and young people at all levels of education, ensuring that their specificities are not impediments to frequency and learning, to the acquisition of knowledge and to the continuation of studies at the higher level, if they so want. There should be multidisciplinary and multi-professional teams that accompany children and young people with special educational needs. It is important to implement the right of parents and education officers to be involved in the whole process and to have the conditions to accompany their children. It is important to ensure educational instruments that do not exclude curricular content, but that, by identifying needs, translate the adequacys that allow children and young people with special educational needs to develop their skills, abilities and knowledge. This is the way we stand for and we will fight for. We have already presented concrete solutions to ensure responses to the specific educational needs of all and of each and we have done so again, as a legislative initiative today delivered in the Assembly of the Republic that responds to the concerns raised in this petition and that contributes to ensuring that all children and young people, regardless of their characteristics, origins and conditions, can learn together in the public schools of their communities, in all degrees of teaching. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u273	To conclude this point on our agenda today, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition calls for changes in the legal system of special education and has as signatories, as has already been said, parents of children with special educational needs. To them present here I address a first word of recognition for the commitment and resilience they have had in the search for solutions, within the educational system, for their children. The petitioners essentially ask that the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 17 / 2015 be continued, particularly with regard to the revision of Decree-Law No 3 / 2008 and the definition of new curricular adaptation measures. What is happening today has been reported to both the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group and the 8 Working Group. the Commission, already mentioned here, is that in cases of students with specific needs or specific pathologies, education managers are in a very difficult position to decide whether to keep their children in the regular curriculum, who know that they will not serve them, condemning them to a likely course of failure and low expectations, or whether to opt for an individual curriculum, the CIS, which is an extreme adaptation of the non-conferencing curriculum of pedagogical certification. This Parliament has long been informed of the need to update and improve Decree-Law No 3/2008 and the Ministry of Education has information to support it. There is a manifest delay in legislative implementation and in the development of their amendments, but the choice of this Government was to create a new working group for the development of inclusive school and we even know that serious work has been carried out in close proximity to the 8th Working Group. the Commission. But it is true that 17 months have passed since the so-called Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic which speaks of the petition. For these parents and students 17 months are at least two more school years without an answer. The position of the CDS on this subject is, very simply, given the time available here, to give more autonomy and means to schools so that, in the face of each specific case, the curriculum adaptation considered effective, whatever the need of the student can be drawn. There has been an opening to work with the State Secretary of Education in this area. We are waiting for the government decision, knowing that it is urgent to respond to these children and their families in order to have effective conditions for achieving their maximum academic potential. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u275	We will move to the last point of our order of business, the appreciation of petition No 57 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Presented by the Artémis Project Association ( A-PA ), requesting that October 15th be recognized as National Day for the Sensitization of Gestational Loss. For an intervention, Mrs Laura Monteiro Magalhães, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a petition to which no one can be indifferent. The more than 4000 petitioners who addressed the Assembly of the Republic intend that October 15th be recognized as the National Day for the Sensitization of Gestational Loss. Gestational loss can be a traumatic event for parents and mothers, because it represents the breaking of a bond that is still in formation, carrying a pain that cannot and should not be underestimated. I would therefore like to begin by greeting the petitioners for the initiative which they addressed to Parliament in good time. This petition aims to sensitize the Portuguese country and society to a phenomenon so often silenced and often not understood by the generality of people, such as the case of parents and mothers who lose a child. This is a difficult subject because mourning is never easy, regardless of the circumstances in which it occurs. This is a reality that deserves and requires respect and understanding, which should not be left for mere expressions of piety, but which require concrete measures to support parents and mothers, to begin with due follow-up and sufficient and respectful information. We all know the quality of care provided in the National Health Service by the thousands of professionals who compose it and no one doubts the dedication and professionalism of these professionals, nor the high demand to which they are subject. But we must not fail to recognize that sometimes the form of communication between the professional and the user is not the most appropriate one, especially in dramatic situations such as gestational loss. For this we should all contribute: parents, mothers, families, society, health institutions and professionals themselves. In particular, it is justified to strengthen the psychological support provided to families who lose a child, either before or after birth. It is for that purpose that it is important to work. The pain of a child’s death is always a horrible event in the life of any mother or father and, therefore, it may not be the right thing to separate parents who have lost a baby from all the rest who, because of some unhappiness, have also lost a child. In fact, if the petitioners' claim deserves our agreement, it is no less true that the understanding of the Directorate-General for Health in that regard also appears to be taken into account. Therefore, for the PSD, it seems justified to consider the creation of a National Day for the Sensitization of Parental Struggle, thus encompassing all families who have lost a child. The fact that this petition has been submitted and today is a good step towards raising Portuguese society's awareness of a difficult issue, but it must and must be addressed with respect and without discrimination. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u277	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I would like to welcome, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, the petitioners and the petitioners, who, with this petition they brought to Parliament to be discussed in plenary, propose the creation of a National Day for the Sensitization of Gestational Loss, because they believe that this day would contribute not only to the social awareness of this problem, but also, in this way, to give it visibility. Visibility is important so that people who, at a certain time, are confronted with the loss of a desired child and with the interruption of a project and a dream of life do not need to suffer alone. The visibility is important for these people who, at a certain point in their life, are faced with such news need not go through a mourning process in a helpless way. This visibility is important because the mourning process is often a process that needs to be done with follow-up and support. Therefore, in the view of the Left Block, to reflect on ways to raise awareness about these episodes is important, as it is also important to act on how the National Health Service itself intervenes with people to whom this news is communicated. We know that the National Health Service has a structural problem that is the lack of response from the point of view of mental health care. Therefore, from this point of view, it is also difficult to deal with people who, for example, need support to make a mourning process. The National Health Service often communicates the fact and then leaves people destitute. It is necessary to strengthen the number of psychologists in primary health care, in hospital care. It is necessary to strengthen the humanization of health care, in Portugal, it is necessary, whenever such news is reported, to leave people the possibility of being accompanied, supported, within the National Health Service, so that they do not need to suffer alone, so that they do not need to go through a traumatic period of their lives alone and isolated and that they can be accompanied by the National Health Service, by a public follow-up, especially in the most difficult times of their lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u279	For an intervention, Mrs Marisabel Moutela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, first of all, to address here a very special greeting to the Artémis Project Association, present in this Parliament and whose leaders and associates are promoters of petition No 57 / XIII ( 1 ). a ), through which they intend the institution of the National Day for the Sensitization of Gestational Loss, similar to what is already happening in other countries, and to raise awareness, as well as to all Portuguese people, about the problem involving gestational loss, which affects many Portuguese families and, most of the time, occurs in successive pregnancies. The people call them "the mothers and fathers of the angels". If you will allow me, and in my capacity as rapporteur of this petition, as a woman and as a mother, today, we must tell you that they are the parents and mothers of the empty neck, of the arms that will not be packed, of the cradle that will never be. in general — we, society, and many health professionals — look at these parents and mothers with the simplicity of those who have undergone an abortion, and we forget that, in reality, we are faced with the irreparable loss of their baby, the child they wanted to have. We will not be able to prevent this pain—only perceptible to those who have gone through it—yes, we can involve ourselves and involve all the Portuguese and the functionalities of the National Health Service in order to demonstrate our respect and solidarity for their loss and their pain. It is that these mothers do all the labor as any other mother, but with more physical pain because these mothers do not have the help of a living child to make the expulsion. It's just that these mothers are bleeding from the heart because at the end of this labor, they don't have the cry or the look of their baby. These mothers then move to rooms or nurses, where they are placed side by side with other mothers who are at the beginning of labor or who already pack their child happily in their arms. The emotional and psychological shock we cause among these mothers is brutal, it is disrespectful. On the other hand, in terms of statistical data, these babies do not exist,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u281	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u282	...because, until 28 weeks, these gestational losses are not reported. And it is estimated that every day they die in Portugal between 1. o and 3. the month of gestation, 400 babies per year. We cannot continue to limit ourselves to saying that we have another star in heaven. We need to get involved and go further. The creation of the National Day for the Sensitization of Gestation Loss will be the form of, every year, at least once, we will be supportive and respect this mourning.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u283	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u284	Our will is to engage us and involve the Portuguese in this pain and suffering, in an attitude of solidarity and respect. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u285	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in such a delicate and painful matter much has already been said, so I will try to stick to aspects that are essential here, and the words are difficult. I wanted to greet the petitioners and thank this civic initiative of the Artémis Project Association, whose objectives touch us fully. We understand that this is a delicate issue, as I have already mentioned, little talked about in society, and that deserves due attention. For us, the issues of birth and those that are somehow associated with it, as is the case with this, are of the greatest importance. Issues like this, which relate to the suffering of many women and families due to the loss of babies that can go up to 400 per year, cannot in any way be ignored, and this petition already has at least that merit. This reality of gestational loss requires the proper preparation of health professionals and the investment in support of these bereaved families. For us, this painful reality and the investment it justifies and that it lacks goes well beyond the creation of a national day, so we do not want to reduce the relevance of this subject to that very matter. Every day is the day of celebrating life and, for us, on the CDS, this is of the greatest relevance, in any circumstance. We will follow the essential efforts to help to dignify and humanize the difficult lives of families who have lost a child before or after birth and to help raise awareness of Portuguese society about this matter. We wish here, above all, that these families can, in addition to pain, reorganize themselves and find a meaning in a very harsh reality. They thus know that society and responsible entities are at their side and at the height of this difficult reality. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u287	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I begin to greet and greet the promoters of the petition and also the more than 4000 citizens who have subscribed to it. The petition addressed, already said, gestational loss, which is defined as a set of loss situations that may occur during pregnancy or after delivery, including spontaneous abortion, fetal death, neonatal death, medical interruption of pregnancy, voluntary interruption of pregnancy and diagnosis of congenital abnormalities either in the fetus or in the baby. According to the petitioners, as has already been said, in Portugal, there are about 400 losses per year, i.e. 1, 8 losses per day. Despite this number, petitioners warn against this problem. In view of these facts, the petitioners claim that the National Day for the Sensitization of Gestation Loss will be created, proposing, for this purpose, October 15. They also say that, with the institutionalization of this day, they want to break the taboo and dignify the suffering of parents who suffer from gestational loss. Gestational loss is, in fact, a potentially traumatic event, mainly due to its normally unexpected and unpredictable character and the interruption of a life project and desire of these families. It is clear, indeed, the importance and relevance of the problem that is the subject of this petition, which should, in the understanding of the CFP, deserve the greatest attention of the political decision-makers. It seems to us, however, that more than the Assembly of the Republic is involved in the definition of national days, it should be the associations, by their practice and initiative, to mark for themselves these days and the objects that support them, alerting and raising the awareness of the general population for the problems they consider relevant. The concern, however, which brings to the Assembly of the Republic and, in particular, the need for follow-up to mitigate the emotional consequences of gestational loss, indeed deserves our attention. This problem has also underlying the shortage of public response, particularly at the level of mental health and the National Health Service. Therefore, it is in fact necessary to strengthen public response in the area of mental health and, in particular, in the psychological support to these families, in order to mitigate the consequences and, above all, to ensure that there is a reactivation of the life project and that the living conditions of these people can effectively be raised, in order to overcome the loss associated with gestational loss. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u289	We therefore conclude the assessment of petition No 57 / XIII ( 1. (a) and, with this, today's agenda. Mr. Secretary has the floor to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u290	Mr. President and Mr. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft resolution No 572 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Multi-annual plan for the end of the tips in public higher education institutions ( BE ), which falls to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-14.u291	Mrs. Members, the next plenary session is held tomorrow at 3 p.m., having as the first item on the agenda the general debate on the proposal for law No 43/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the scheme for the professional valorisation of workers in public service. of the second point is the general discussion of Bill No. 40 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the infrastructure and equipment programming law for the security forces and services of the Ministry of Internal Administration. of the third point is the general discussion of the proposed law No 44 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Co-operative Code and the projects of lein.o 75 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Excludes the existence of investor members and ensures the democratization of the functioning of cooperatives by the first amendment of the Co-operative Code approved by Law No 119 / 2015 of 31 August 2015 and by ensuring compliance with Article 82. paragraph 4 ( a ) of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic ( BE ), and 356 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the Co-operative Code, ensuring effective respect for the cooperative principles of the International Cooperative Alliance ( CFP ). of the fourth point is the assessment of petition No 40 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Frederico Calado Cordeiro and others, against the extension of the maturity of the Mandatory Securities ( VMOC) of Sporting. Finally, as a fifth item on the agenda, without time allocated for discussion, Bill No. 35 / XIII ( 2 ) is scheduled for discussion. ( a ) — The twenty-second amendment is made to Decree-Law No 15/93 of 22 January approving the legal regime applicable to the trafficking and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, adding several substances to Table II - A. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 6 minutes.]]
