ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u1	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities opening the galleries. I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the file. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Bureau introduced the following legislative initiatives: Bill No 114 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the Union of Freguesias de Santarém ( Marvila ), Santa Iria da Ribeira de Santarém, Santarém ( São Salvador ) and Santarém ( São Nicolau ), in the municipality of Santarém, for the Union of Freguesias da Cidade de Santarém ( PSD ), which dropped to 11. the Commission ; draft deliberation No 4 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Sets the composition, distribution and list of the Parliamentary Groups of Friendship in the XIII Legislation ( President of the HR ) ; and draft resolution No 114 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the results of the application of Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December at the end of its first year of validity ( PSD ). In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco. Let us turn to today's agenda, which consists of the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister on the modernization of the State under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. To open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 1974, Sérgio Godinho sang that « the seat of a wait only stops in the torrent ». This Government and the current parliamentary majority have understood well and have been aware of the urgency that the country and Portuguese felt about the recovery of their incomes, the correction of fiscal suffocation and the reduction of inequalities. After these brutal years of austerity, we must intelligently manage the stream, transforming its strength into energy and progressively go extending the margins, in order to flatten the speed at which the flow flows, allowing the smooth and smooth navigation with the right direction. Being the beginning of 2016 very marked by this time of urgency to relaunch the Portuguese economy, to recover the social fractures of austerity and to combat precariousness, it is also in 2016 that we must begin the preparation of the future. At this time of urgency there must be a strategic vision of strengthening citizenship, modernizing the economy and state and developing the country, which will sit on the pillars of knowledge: culture, science and education. It is precisely about the modernization of the state that I am speaking to this House today. It was many who, over the past four years, went up to this forum presenting and proclaiming the reform of the State, ignoring that a modern State is not a minimal, distant State without resources or competences. They went up to this forum announcing a reform of the State which was almost always no more than the exercise of ambition for the privatization of the State and the alienation of its functions. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] The practical result is the delay in the modernization of the state and the retreat in the changes that have occurred in the sense of its modernization. A modern state is a state with strategic intervention capacity, a simpler state, a smart state, close and inclusive, endowed with dynamic public administration and capacity to innovate. The first axis of a real reform of the State is precisely that of simplification. The first step was to ensure a simpler, more agile, more predictable regulation that can be systematically evaluated. To this end, the Government has already introduced profound changes in the area of legislative simplification, such as the adoption of regulatory acts only once a month; the joint adoption of legislation and its regulations, ensuring their immediate implementation; the production of laws that have an impact on the life of companies only twice a year or the effective control of context costs in new legislation. The second step was the return of the Simplex. The Simplex program is now being rebuilt, bearing in mind both the experience and knowledge of employees and public entities, as well as social and private sector entities. The measures to be entered in Simplex 2016 are being defined on the ground, listening to the effective priorities of citizens and businesses. The third step is to ensure that the public sector is able to innovate and meet the challenges of the 21st century. This capacity implies, from the outset, the qualification of public administration workers and their motivation. It is therefore essential to resume the renewal of the Public Administration frameworks through the recruitment of qualified young people, allowing them to be linked to the Public Administration in centres of cross-border competence, rather than to distribute them shared by specific services, departments or institutes. Secondly, the creation of the laboratory/incubator for public and social innovation, where innovative projects for the Public Administration will be tested, including the development of the concept of measures included in the Simplex for 2016. The third initiative results from the work that has been developed by the Structure of Mission Portugal Social Innovation, which consists of the launch of the first social impact titles in the public sector and the opening of candidatures for financing social innovation initiatives. Finally, the network of proximity services will be extended in conjunction with the local administration, through the opening of new shops and spaces of the citizen. in this context, it will promote the provision of public services to citizens in mobile units serving citizens with reduced mobility. In parallel with simplification, there is a second fundamental axis for reform of the State, which is that of decentralization. Decentralisation is even the cornerstone of a democratic reform of the state, a state closer to citizens, based on the more efficient and efficient use of resources and the higher quality standards of services provided to citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A state that makes full sense, in the year in which 40 years are held on the first democratic elections for local power, on the constitutional principles of local autonomy and subsidiarity and on the principle of the European Union of governance at various levels. A state that turns the page of four years of conflict with the local electorate and initiates, with a sense of commitment to an Agenda for the Decade, which brings us closer to the levels of decentralization and territorial cohesion of the oldest democracies in Europe. Because the challenge is immense, the action is urgent and therefore we give priority to the approval of the decentralization plan that will allow the 2017-2021 city cycle to correspond to the affirmation of a new generation of territorial policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The decentralization plan has three fundamental dimensions: to deepen local democracy, to ensure a network of public services of proximity and to assign new competences to local authorities. The rationalization of the State's inconcentrated administration, according to the model of the five plan regions, will give consistency and effectiveness to public policies and territorial cohesion. Regional coordination and development committees (CCDs) should fully play the role of planning centres and regional strategies in programmes supported by European funds and in relation to the Spanish regions, which requires the democratic legitimacy of their leaders. The Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto must be real local authorities, directly elected by the populations, responding to the specific requirements of these two major urban areas, as required by the autarchs of all political areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The municipalities are the level of territorial governance for which it is important to decentralize the public management of proximity in areas such as education, with respect for the autonomy of schools, as well as in the fields of health, social action, public transport, culture, civil protection and port and maritime areas. Inter-municipal cooperation should be strengthened and encouraged as well to streamline and scale the use of public resources. Finally, my own experience of decentralization allows me to say that the French have a unique role such as the poles of democracy of proximity and equality in access to public services. This new time of territorial policies requires a gradual redistribution of financial, human, heritage and technical resources to allow Portugal to have a model of decentralization of European democracy within 10 years. After four years dominated by fundamentalist thinking of austerity, this new government and this new parliamentary majority have proved that it is possible to govern differently — different in austerity, different in economic recovery —,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... but also different in strategic action that creates confidence in the future, valuing public services and real state reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u5	You've outlived your time, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u6	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Simplifying, innovating, decentralizing and modernizing we share a state close to citizens so that we have a better democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u7	To put questions, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u8	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government : I want to start by pointing out the concrete importance of the process of modernization of the state and the economy. Obviously, it was not a matter for the former Government to have been outside, it had started many years ago and maintained a progressive line of simplification and modernization, which I recognized when I was Prime Minister and which I hope you will recognize, too, now that you are also Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u10	It is not a good principle to want to build forward without knowing what we receive from transformation. Therefore, I would just say, very briefly, that it is important to take further and deepen the changes that have been made under the Simplification Programme, the Approximar Programme, the decentralization programme, all the innovative processes that have been brought to environmental, industrial and commercial licensing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u12	... all the simplification that has been made through the amendments introduced by the new Code of Administrative Procedure, which bring important changes in the relationship of the State with the Administration and which show the concern to bring greater transparency, speed and effectiveness in the decisions of the Administration, when they are relevant to the citizens. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u13	Therefore, Prime Minister, I welcome the concern the Government has had and has already expressed in the GOPs (Grand Options of the Plan) to take this process further. In the past we have sought to extend the participation of all parties, in particular by sitting in Parliament, for the further and wider discussion of the processes of State reform and the modernization of the State. at the time, the opposition parties were afraid to be contaminated with the so-called 'austerity policy' and still today this rhetoric remains, as if the reform of the state had something to do with austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u14	Are you sure you don't? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u15	But, Prime Minister, now reality is another and, indeed, Mr Prime Minister has chosen an important issue, but has failed the issue that concerns the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u17	That is not the issue that this particular week concerns the Portuguese, and you know it. [[PSD applause.]] at this time, in which the country is emerging from an unparalleled crisis in the more than 40 years of our democracy, in which confidence, predictability and, at the same time, security in the budgetary process so that it does not overlap precisely with all other political processes important to the state and to the Portuguese, it was essential that the Government reassure the country about the intentions it has with regard to budgetary policy. In a relatively short time, there were virtually no independent, national or foreign institutions or entities, which had not drawn attention to the problems of unrealism that inform the intentions that the Government expressed about the draft budget. I believe, Mr Prime Minister, that the first favour I can give the Government is to give it a little more time to explain what I did not want to explain at the opening of this debate and to reassure the Portuguese on the main criticisms that have been made by virtually all the institutions to the budget outline that the Government sent to Brussels. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u18	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u19	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I thank you for the questions you have raised. As you should imagine, of course, I do not ignore the inheritance we have received and, having had the opportunity to have been autarch during the years when you were Prime Minister, I know well what your government's action on decentralization meant and what its government's action on non-simplification. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I understand and respect the difficulty that Mr. Prime Minister has to free himself from the last four years,... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u20	He ran away from her mouth to the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u21	... but you must understand that my duty is to rule today with your eyes set in the future and not spend the time feeding with you a debate about your past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho,... [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u22	Everything in place!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u23	... with all cordiality, I invite you to come to the present, which in the present is very well received and in the present you will find a long future. Do not be a prisoner of the past because this is the time to turn the page over to the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as the question is concerned, it is being dealt with from a technical point of view and must be properly assessed from a political point of view. There are two issues that have been raised. A very important theme is how to classify certain changes as structural changes or as changes that do not have a structural nature. from our point of view, and we remember, measures such as overtaxing or cutting in salaries were presented in their own time and by their own government as temporary measures. So putting an end to temporary measures is not making a structural change, it is putting an end to a temporary measure. [[Congrats from the PS and PCP MP Jerome de Sousa.]] Of two, one : or the previous Government informed the European Commission that the measures that it had informed the country as temporary were definitive measures and then it is natural for the European Commission now to think that we are amending measures that were definitive, or then, you told the European Union that you said in Portugal and therefore we are not changing measures that were definitive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is a second theme, which has to do with growth forecasts. As for growth forecasts, there are two types of explanation. First of all, there are the forecasts that have been made without regard to the measures provided for in the Budget itself and which therefore, in the face of an invariant scenario, have a certain forecast. [[PSD protests.]] There are other measures that cannot have this unrealistic vision. I give you an example: in the CFP (Stabilisation and Growth Programme) that the previous government presented, the expected growth for this year was 2 %; the expected growth is 2, 1 %. We are discussing a 10th difference between what you anticipate and what we present as a forecast. When this Programme was presented, they never explained what measures sustained this growth, but the forecast we present, which is not unrealistic in 0, 1 the more, is supported by a set of measures that have been approved or are proposed to be approved in the State Budget, as regards the replacement of salaries, as regards changes in fiscal policy, and all these measures have a positive impact on growth. The same applies to external demand. Our forecast is conservative, indeed more conservative than usual in its forecasts. What we do is apply the Outlook (World Economic Outlook) framework, published by the International Monetary Fund, considering that it is important not only to take account of the global framework, but also of the country-to-country differentiated framework. And if you see the forecasts of the International Monetary Fund, you will find that for the markets in Spain and Germany — and only they represent more than 50 % of our exports — the International Monetary Fund continues to expect sustained growth in these markets. Therefore, the forecasts we have are conservative and realistic forecasts and it is on the basis of this that we are building a Budget that, now, yes, does not comply with a continuity of policies, but that wants to mark the turn of the page of policies and these, yes, there are differences and we want to fight for these differences. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u24	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u25	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you are, as you said in The Hague many days ago, nothing "declared" with these matters—the expression was yours. But I must tell you that I am not quiet at all, nor with what you have just said, nor with what has been the experience this government has had with preparing the budget outline. First of all, I recall the uncertainty that the government itself has attached to this process. When I asked the Government in December about the aim of the deficit, Mr. Prime Minister said that it would correspond to what was in the Government Programme, 2, 8 %. After all, it is not 2, 8 %, it is 2, 6 %. A better objective for the deficit is, of course, an objective that has to translate measures that were not available at the time the government built its programme. But we do not know these measures and, from the budget outline, what is given to us is, on the contrary, the use, either from a methodological point of view, from a financial point of view, of aggregates and values that are neither consistent nor consistent. The Council of Public Finance warned about this and, still yesterday, UTAO — Technical Unit for Budgetary Support, of the Assembly of the Republic — even drew attention to the violation, which can only be considered serious, of manipulation of budget data classification, which, fortunately, I never went through the embarrassment of having a finance minister who had to be corrected in this way by UTAO. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u26	Mr Prime Minister, the problem is this: how we know today are measures that increase expenditure and others that reduce revenue —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u27	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u28	... those who may possibly have an opposite signal and which therefore compensate for this intention of the Government are not known - we come to the conclusion, as several instances have arrived, that there is no realism in the projections. And this contrasts with the statements that Mr. Prime Minister has been making over time. It gave an interview to the Financial Times, in which it suggested that there were negotiations with the European Commission that had taken place and that they would be pointing to a possible congruence between what is, according to the Financial Times, the price to be paid by the left-wing radical parties that support the government —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u29	The Council on the radical right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u30	... it is the Financial Times which makes the classification — and what the requirements are in Brussels, in the European Commission. Mr. Prime Minister was quiet and said: « No problem». Then we came to realize that, after all, there is a problem. After all, reading in Brussels is not the same. We know that the European Commission has given the Government an opportunity to correct these data. Mr Prime Minister was here to correct the concerns of the European Commission. Let me tell you this: I have no doubt that the government will pursue a non-confrontational path with the European Commission and I hope that they will come to the end of the process and can deliver a budget that is a basis of confidence for the country, for Portuguese and for investors.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u31	What a range!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u32	But, Prime Minister, as it is said in this budget draft, that for every euro that the State injects into the economy the economy returns it four does not win credibility. If so, I would invite you to quadruple public spending to finish, once and for all, with the weight of interest in the Portuguese budget, and you know that this is not feasible. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u33	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u34	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, the first step towards the credibility of a budget is that it corresponds to the commitments we have made with the Portuguese. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] And the budget we are building will respect the commitments we have made with the Portuguese, will respect the commitments we have made with those parties that have made Parliamentaryly possible the government... [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u35	Sure! Of course! ... and will also ensure the objective of complying with European rules. What we have done is a constructive dialogue with the European Commission, and we are going to continue — it has registered well! What we present in the State Budget outline 2016 is a step towards the agreement with the European Commission, with a reduced nominal deficit not to 2, 8 % but to 2, 6 %, and an effort to reduce the structural deficit by 0, 2 %. And we're going to continue to make that effort. But at the moment, what the European Commission has asked us to do — and only — was there a clarification and an understanding of the methodologies, including the classification of headings. That is why I spoke to him recently. It seems that the European Commission was convinced by someone that measures that were nationally presented as temporary were, after all, definitive measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u36	Who would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u37	Now, you will be in a better position than anyone to answer these questions: then, the overtax was definitive or temporary? Were cuts in wages final or temporary? Was the cut in pensions definitive or temporary? [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] But, Mr President, we will actually do the test of credibility. We will therefore be constructive, but above all we will be faithful to the commitments we have made with the Portuguese. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u38	To speak a third time, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor. It has little time, but there will be the same tolerance as with Mr. Prime Minister's initial intervention. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u39	Mr President, Prime Minister, there is a very big difference between what is said and what is done. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] And what Mr. Prime Minister came here to say is that he is not going to answer Brussels today, with the reply that UTAO gave him yesterday. Yesterday these questions were clarified, Prime Minister — and you ignored them. The Government shall, as structural measures, present measures which are not. That is why it aggravates the structural deficit and makes it worse - significantly. It is not by chance that the European Commission has serious doubts about what you have presented. One thing, Mr. Prime Minister, are the policy options that are taken—and each government takes every moment the policy options that it wants and that are agreed upon by reality. It is different, as Mr Prime Minister says, to have technical inconsistencies, i.e. not to have a serious exercise to present. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u40	And that, Prime Minister, is very different.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u41	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u42	I shall conclude, Mr President of the House. last year the government had set a target for growth of 1, 5 % in 2015 — it would have been 1, 5 %. We had planned to have a deficit of less than 3 % and in public accounts less than 2, 8 % — we had it in public accounts of about 2, 5 %, which has already been disclosed by the government itself, and we will also have a national accounting of less than 3 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u43	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we did what we said we were going to do and we presented a real consolidation effort, in which, as has been announced this week, three quarters of the adjustment were done on the side of the expenditure and not on the side of the revenue. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u45	With cuts in wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u46	Therefore, Prime Minister, for the future, you can make the choice of policies you want, and we can agree with them or disagree with them. But it is good for Portugal — that is what I can tell you with the experience I have too — that the accounts are correct. And so far, don't beat, Prime Minister. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u47	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor. The Bureau will strive to maintain the balance in terms of time. [[PSD protests.]] It turns out that that time in the electronic picture is not correct, because I noticed, exactly when Mr. Prime Minister's intervention ended... [[PSD protests.]] I would ask the technical services to see exactly when Mr. Prime Minister finished his reply. Mr. Prime Minister was 3 seconds old, just as Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho was 5 seconds old. I don't see the question. Mr. Prime Minister, please answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u48	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, as I have told you, and well, credibility is that: to do what is promised and not to fulfill what has been promised. That is our objective in this Budget. And what we should focus on was the debate on political options, because, as regards the alignment of technical issues, the work being done between the departments of the Ministry of Finance and the services of the European Commission will certainly enable a methodology to be stabilized. However, the confusion results from the fact that the European Commission was convinced by someone that it was temporary, after all, definitive measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u49	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u50	And, Mr President, there is something that this government does not question, which is the word of the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u51	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u52	I shall conclude, Mr President. So when you said that the overtax was temporary, we trusted you and did not change that position. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When he said that the cuts in winnings were temporary, we trusted you and did not question your word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u53	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u54	The honourable Member must realize that what is at stake in these technical discussions is not our credibility; it is unfortunately their credibility and the two words I have spoken to the Portuguese and the European Union. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u55	I would like to draw attention to the importance of the services of the Assembly of the Republic, in all the debates, but in particular those of great political importance, to be duly attentive to the exact time when the interventions stop and do not allow time to continue so as not to put the Bureau in trouble, as happened today. I hope that doesn't happen again. Continuing the debate, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u56	Mr President, Prime Minister, who, at a time when xenophobia is growing in Europe and Denmark is preparing to confiscate property for refugees,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u57	With the vote on the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u58	... the European Commission does not say anything about this and it demultiplies itself in press statements and rounds to attack the Portuguese budget outline, says everything about the European Commission. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But I say more: that the PSD comes here, to this plenary, to attack the country using the European Commission as a pretext — they have or do not have flag on the lapel — says everything about the right and the fact that they are never able to defend Portugal and, on the contrary, always attack our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is good to remember that the European Commission, which now seems so concerned with rules and deficits, has been the same one that recently forced Portugal to something that has not happened in any other European Union country, with the delivery of EUR 3000 million to BANIF to sell it to Santander for EUR 150 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u59	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u60	We have now seen the profits of Santander and we have seen that of the EUR 6 billion of profits that Santander presents, EUR 300 million is the tax credit that inherited from BANIF. The European Commission is truly attacking our country. Those who feel so concerned about the deficit should worry before making our country spend EUR 3000 million on an account that was not theirs. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But more: who, like the European Commission, is so concerned about the rules should have been careful when, while still running the tender for the sale of BANIF, already sent an e-mail saying which was the winner of the contest. When we talk to cheaters, it is very difficult to pay attention to the rules they try or do not prescribe. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, once in a fortnight debate, he brought a Constitution of the Portuguese Republic to offer to his predecessor, who had many difficulties in understanding that in Portugal there is a law to comply.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u61	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u62	Today, he also brought a Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Not for you, who know I have read it, but to share it with the European Commission. As far as we can see, the European Commission has also been deceived — see! — by PSD and CDS. Those who live in Portugal will not be very surprised. We know how we were deceived, when we were promised to return the surcharge or that austerity would someday create employment or consolidation of public accounts. But, finally, the PSD/CDS government said, in Brussels : that cuts in wages and pensions—that our constitution of the Portuguese Republic did not allow—were permanent structural cuts; that an overtax that could only be transitional—and that PSD and CDS promised here that it would be transitional—would, after all, remain forever. Therefore, this is the time to explain to the European Commission that the Constitution in Portugal is to comply, that Portugal was promised to cut where it could not be cut, because its Fundamental Law did not allow it, lie to it, and that we are here to respond to the rights and sovereignty of our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, Portugal is a sovereign Republic, as Article 1 states. that of our Constitution. Therefore, we need to ask ourselves why the European Commission, when it demands targets of deficit or financing to banks as no other European country requires, has ever thought that it could demand it from Portugal. Mr. Prime Minister started by Sérgio Godinho, and I remember also Sérgio Godinho : What does Portugal have that is different from the others? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u63	Why should we accept this assault on the country? And, Prime Minister, I want to tell you very clearly: there is a majority in Parliament and there is a force in Parliament that supports the government with the courage to face Brussels. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u64	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u65	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, as you know, we believe that we should have a constructive position on the European Union. And we must have it not by putting us in the position of bringing problems to Europe, but by helping Europe build solutions. That is why we define as a priority in dialogue with the European institutions an issue that is not directly reaching our country today a central issue for human values in Europe and which is the greatest threat to the future of the European Union, which is the refugee crisis. That is why we have told the European Commission — I told the Dutch presidency yesterday and I will say it for the week in Germany — that Portugal, perhaps not under great pressure, feels no less obliged to help solve this problem. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u66	This is because a Europe where there are fundamental values that are sacrificed or where a state demands the expulsion of another from the Schengen area is not a strengthened Europe, it is a divided Europe, and a divided Europe is a weakened Europe. We want and can help to strengthen the surveillance of the external border, either in the functioning of hot spots in Greece or in the functioning of the relocation process in the European area, either bilaterally, inviting people to reside in Portugal who, in fact, need the country to strengthen our growth potential and to ensure the proper functioning of institutions where there are vacancies, for example, many higher education institutions that can accommodate, with housing capacity, students who are now unable to continue their training. We must therefore have a proactive position, but we must also have a very clear position on our budgetary policy. I know we don't agree here. For the 20 % we do not agree with, I take this quota: we will do everything we can to meet the targets for the budget deficit. But there is one thing that I would like to make clear: we will do it - without sacrificing the 80% we agree on, and that is not just what we negotiated between ourselves, it has to do with what I myself have promised the Portuguese. As Mr Pedro Passos Coelho said recently, the first assumption of trust is to do what we said and not the opposite of what we said. This reorientation of economic policy is fundamental to growth, it is essential to create jobs and also to have a healthy and sustainable consolidation of our public finances. If we do not grow up, we will never have less deficit and less debt and, therefore, we will have to change this direction once and for all so that we can have different results. This is the ambition we have and we want to achieve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u67	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u68	Mr President, Prime Minister, record your words as record our commitment. For the Left Block, fiscal consolidation is important, yes, but no country has healthy accounts when people are poor or forced to emigrate. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u69	And that's why our commitment is to stop impoverishment. And that is why we believe that only by defending our economy, by defending our employment, can we really want healthy public accounts. This strong voice must be heard and we hope it will be. And for that we will be here during the budgetary debate, which must come, to discuss each of the measures. But the work of this government and of this majority, while we wait for this important debate, which is that of the Budget, has not been stopped. We have already had important measures with concrete consequences in people's lives, measures on wages, pensions, social support, and one of them is of extraordinary importance, because it is an essential basic right and it has been under attack in the PSD and CDS government, which now needs a clear response, which is about housing. We have several questions to answer and resolve about housing in Portugal. We have already taken a first step when here, in the Assembly of the Republic, it ended with the tax executions of the home itself, because those who have lost everything cannot also lose the house. We have much more to debate and we are going to do this debate. Today, in Parliament, there is a public hearing, which was promoted by the Left Block, where people living in supported income neighborhoods will be present, from Braga to Setúbal, so many people who are seen, by an evil law, by an unjust increase made by PSD and CDS, in the imminent of losing their home. Income increases were gross and were made taking into account gross income and not net income. That is, the income that is supposed to support those who have less is blind as to the real income that people have, and therefore justice does not exist, there is only injustice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u70	And accumulating the injustice of gross increases based on income that people do not have, because it is gross and non-liquid income, followed the possibility of eviction of people from homes where they lived their whole lives. Mr. Prime Minister, here will be the people who live in these neighborhoods and who throughout these years of austerity, these years of PSD and CDS, have not given up fighting for this essential basic right, which is housing. We have already heard statements by the Socialist Party about their willingness to change the law of supported income. The question that I am asking is very specific: can we assure these residents, these people, who need to have the right to housing, that the law will be changed, that where gross income is, it will become net income, so that there is justice, that this government will not clear anyone from the houses where it lives? This is the guarantee we need to have here today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u71	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u72	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the Government's programme has set up a fundamental idea that we need a new generation of housing policies. For decades the need for housing policies has been distorted, on the one hand, by artificial freezing of incomes and, on the other, by easy access to credit, which has largely responded to housing needs. And, therefore, since the eradication programmes of the barracks in the 1990s, there has really been no housing policy in Portugal. We need a new generation, because the time for frozen incomes is over and the time for easy credit is also over. Today we will return to a new paradigm of housing, from my healthier point of view, in which, instead of priority to new construction, we will give priority to rehabilitation and, instead of priority to the purchase of our own house, we will give priority to the lease. This will restore us to the situation in which all European countries have been throughout these decades, which is to respond to the needs of access to housing by the middle class and, in particular, young people. Therefore, one of the key bets of the Government Programme, together with the dynamisation of rehabilitation, is the creation of affordable income programmes. We do not forget, when we look at the new generation of policies, the problems remaining from the previous generation of housing policies. I have been a camera president for several years and I cannot of course guarantee that my position today, as Prime Minister, because I am in a position with a different point of view, coincides with that which I had as mayor. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] in this specific case, what is at issue are not views of the state and municipalities, what is at stake is the view that we have on the right to housing and on what is justice in housing as a measure of social support. On this issue today, as Prime Minister, I think exactly what I thought when I was President of the City Council of Lisbon. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] The understanding I have is that income has to be calculated not on the basis of gross income but on the basis of net income, because it is the net income that delimits the measure of need, it is not the gross income that allows to measure the effective need for this social support. That is how I have practiced and that is how I understand it must be. in the same way, I do not think there can obviously be any tolerance regarding the failure to comply with this social support measure, but it is not acceptable to adopt administrative clearance measures. This guarantee of compliance must be speedy, but cannot be distorted in an administrative way. I don't think it would be a decent relationship path for those who live in supported homes. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u73	To put questions, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u74	Mr President, Prime Minister, the CDS has always had, and has said, a position in favour of the Simplex programme, so we will obviously look at the measures when they are implemented. You also know that in order to regionalize the Portuguese in haste, force and wake up, we will not be available. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We are going to the draft budget of the State which Mr. Prime Minister is negotiating with the European Commission. Make it clear, the CDS will always defend the interest of the Portuguese in this negotiation. What the CDS cannot do is validate a budget proposal based on non-realistic, credible and non-exhaustive bases,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u75	...as soon as history teaches us that countries that make artificial budgets are the first victims of the illusion of their governments. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr. Prime Minister, in a week, the outline of your Budget was criticized inside and out. UTAO (Technical Unit for Budgetary Support) says that the project is artificial, the Higher Council of the Council of Public Finance says that the budget project has relevant risks and unwise forecasts, the rating agencies, whose consistency we often criticized, but whose influence we do not know, one says that the Portuguese Budget project repeats past errors, another alert to overoptimism that may end up in additional measures and another still claims that the forecasts are unrealistic. in an idea, Deloitte sums up everything: this budget project is based on a faeces and not on reality. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u76	Mr. Prime Minister can ignore, he can devalue, he can ridicule, but it is very rare to see this unanimity, outside and inside, about the credibility of a sketch, and that does not harm you, harm Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u78	That said, I ask three questions. First : where is Mr Prime Minister, in this outline, going to seek an economic growth of 2, 1 %, that no entity, internal or external, valid or even near? We are not, Mr. Prime Minister, in April 2015, we are in January 2016. The international economy has worsened and investors' distrust of their policies has increased considerably. Secondly, where does the Prime Minister sustain investment growth of 5 % when all the measures he has taken affect economic confidence, legal certainty and diminish our competitiveness? Third: Mr. Prime Minister, we all realize that you will put gas oil and gas from middle-class families and businesses to pay the freight you are making to CGTP, Block and PCP! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD MP Miguel Morgado.]] So, Prime Minister, a very clear question: how many cents will each liter of gas and gasoline increase by tax? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u79	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u80	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, if you have to travel a certain distance at 60 km/h you make the forecast of how long it will take to travel that distance. If, however, you decide to stop to have a coffee, time will increase, as soon as you resolve quickly. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, the forecasts vary, the forecasts are not insensitive to the variants that you introduce in the debate. However, all these scenarios referred to do not take account of the measures provided for in the Budget and are therefore on the basis of the assumption that the measures to be taken would not be taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u81	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u82	You ask us: where are you going to look for the 2, 1 %? We would say that we were listening to a Member who is not the same as a few months ago defended here a PEC (Stabilisation and Growth Programme) which predicted a growth compared with these 2, 1 % of 2, 0 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u83	And the economy is the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u84	So the scandal, the artificialism that you see here is a tenth, but there is a big difference. Do you know who it is, sir? It is that four months ago, when it saw a growth of 2 %, there was no measure to sustain this growth of 2 % and now the growth of 2, 1 % is sustained in a set of measures, which are, in fact, those which you criticize, because they are fearful and can drag Portugal into a difficult situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Regarding external demand, I insist, you should read the World Economic Outlook, from the IMF (vulgo Outlook) not only in your global economic downturn data, but also in your specific data on markets that are most important to Portugal. Only with regard to Germany and Spain, which account for more than 50 % of our exports, the IMF Outlook provides for the containment of the growth of these two economies. The honourable Member asked a question and, because I have heard a lot of people say, 'Well, there is a mistake here in calculating the deflators! I give a small example: if you compare the inflation envisaged by the European Commission with the inflation envisaged in our budget outline, you will find that there is a difference of 1, 1 % to 1, 4 %. Now these three tenths have an explanation: this increase in inflation is explained by the increase in wages, the decrease in tax burden and the replacement of pensions. Yes, this is not a Budget that goes ahead with the previous policies and would give the results of these forecasts, this is a Budget that changes policies and therefore achieves results other than those of these forecasts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u85	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u86	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister said for the second time that Spain and Germany account for more than 50 % of exports. They don't represent! You don't represent, Prime Minister! A lapse on who the Prime Minister is can still be a lapse, now an error in the value of exports is that it seems serious to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u88	And it seems to justify, moreover, the fact that you wanted to speed up, run the risk of leading the country against a wall, and that was the disaster we knew in 2011. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] According to data from Banco de Portugal, you should know that exports from Spain and Germany for 2014 represent around 32 % and not 50 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u89	That's the difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u90	But let's go back to the discussion on the budget project. If in the negotiation with the European Commission they ask for additional measures, because they do not believe in the economic scenario that Mr. Prime Minister presents, what does he do? Does it increase taxes? Does it again violate the 3% target of the deficit? Or do you have a plan b? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u91	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u92	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, we are in a constructive dialogue with the European Commission. As you know, there is a set of measures that are central and of which we will not abdicate. We will not abdicate the replacement of salaries, we will not abdicate the elimination of overtaxes, we will not abdicate the replacement of pensions, because they are central measures in the reorientation of policy. But we will have a constructive attitude. Amongst what was included in our Programme, the objective of reaching 2, 8, and what we presented in the Budget outline of 2, 6, already translates a search for approximation. How is this demand for approximation financed? It is financed, we judge, with fiscal intervention from a proper point of view, firstly, in order to limit and control a new cycle of household indebtedness, increasing the seal tax on consumer credit, and, secondly, seeking to avoid the increase in imports, increasing two special taxes which have a major impact on imports, such as the ISP (tax on petroleum products) and tobacco tax. We are therefore, of course, available to adjust what is adjustable, in a constructive attitude, which we think is normal, with the European Commission. But there is one thing for which you may be right: we will not give up, nor will we cease to fulfil the commitments we have made with the Portuguese and the reorientation of policy which we find essential not only to have more growth, not only to have more employment, but also to effectively achieve a sustained reduction in deficit and debt and not an artificially sustained reduction in temporary measures, even if they have gone to Europe, will present them as final. That's what we won't do! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u93	Don't come with that conversation again!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u94	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u95	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister spoke in fiscal intervention, but I noted that he did not clearly answer the question of how much will increase the litre of gasoline and gas oil from middle class families and companies to pay the fares to the PCP, the CGTP and the Left Block? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u96	This is the Prec CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u97	Mr. Prime Minister spoke again about temporary measures or exceptional measures, but I would like to say that he does not repeat this again without changing this bench. Because, as Mr Prime Minister knows, in 2015 there was a 20 % recovery of public service salaries because it would also happen this year, in the next and the other, and I have here the factual proof that exceptional measures are only temporary — the factual proof! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] What distinguishes us is gradualism: and do by stages or everything in a hurry, Mr. Prime Minister. [[PS protests.]] With regard to the commitments you have made as a candidate for the Prime Minister and the commitments you have made in this Parliament as Prime Minister, that this outline is misleading, totally or partly—and what is at stake is not your policy but your word—I mean, frankly, that this outline proves that you have been misleading the reformed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u98	The Left Block and the PCP promised, before the elections, to increase pensions by 25 € / month.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u99	Twenty-five!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u100	I repeat, 25 €! What you will give is not up to 1 € / month, and they little ones, Mr. Prime Minister. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]] You have promised that I would put everything back in solidarity with the elderly, and we have always said that this was not true, that it would not be. Mr Prime Minister, we see the budget outline that he presented and does not believe: « D. 62 — Solidary Supplement for Older Persons — 0, 00 », of impact on GDP! Mr. Prime Minister, it's either grate or it's very serious. This is the measure of what you have been doing, deceiving pensioners and pensioners with promises that they would not fulfill. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD MP Miguel Morgado.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u101	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u102	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, when I heard you now, I thought it wasn't the same Member who supported the huge increase in taxes... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and which supported successive budgets, which had to be reviewed every year, having been a legislature that struck all the records of corrective budgets. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] With regard to the reformed, let us be clear: with your policy, a reformed pension of €275 minimum pension would keep the pension frozen;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u103	What about you?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u104	...with us he'll stop having his pension frozen. This is the difference in measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u105	It's 0,00 the impact!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u106	Secondly, what we do is differentiate the holders of minimum pensions: those who need the most, strengthening their incomes through the solidarity complement for the elderly, and those who, not requiring, will not have the increase of the solidarity complement for the elderly. That is how we can have a selective social policy, supporting those in need and managing our resources in the best way.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u107	The impact is 0,00!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u108	I also want to tell you, with total peace of mind — I know that it will now be the party of the « motorists» —,... [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] [[Oh, you know what?Oh, my ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u109	Yes, it's a repeat of the CDS when it goes to opposition! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u110	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u111	I was saying, with total tranquility, that, in a scenario in which we have a substantial reduction in the price of fuels, in a scenario in which the country is, as everybody should be, committed to changing the energy paradigm and the paradigm of mobility,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u112	... between saving direct labour taxes to increase and increasing the tax on oil products, our option is clear: we tax on oil products and degrade labour income. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u113	I note that the electronic picture records exactly the moment Mr. Prime Minister concluded, remaining five seconds... by the visas, and according to what they're saying, it'll be six seconds. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u114	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, then what about the future? Oh, my God! Get rid of your past as President of the House! [[CDS-PP applause.]] We have asked concrete questions and you are talking about the time when you were President of the House! More, with regard to pensioners and pensioners, he did not respond! The impact is 0,00! With regard to minimum, social and rural pensions, we propose at least an increase in the value of inflation; in their case, the poorest pensioners will lose their ability to buy. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, everything indicates that, after hearing today and taking into account the budget project that it presents—and, of course, it will weave—that project is not the beginning of the road but the end of an illusion. It is appropriate to say, keeping the image: "You have spread out! », and what is more serious is that it will also lead the country to stamp itself out. That's what we're worried about! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u115	To put questions, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u116	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, first of all, allow me a slight introduction to tell Mr Nuno Magalhães that either had a white or was distracted, because, both in the previous debate and yesterday in the debate here, in the Assembly of the Republic, it has been found that the CFP continues to consider that an increase in pensions and reforms is still possible in 2016, and we are working on it. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Paulo Portas.]] I think it was important to make this correction. Mr President, in this debate it was clear that what concerns the PSD and the CDS is not UTAO's opinion on the budget and the deficit. The concerns of PSD and CDS relate to two other issues. The first is that it has been very smuggling there: PSD and CDS, for four years, have been telling the Portuguese that the cuts were temporary, but they told the European Commission that they were definitive.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u117	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u118	This maneuver has now been discovered. It is clear that the Portuguese have been deceived and are now concerned about trying to hide this premeditated deception.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u119	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u120	On the other hand, PSD and CDS are concerned not with the deficit but with the real possibility of replacing what they cut, wages and pensions. The Assembly of the Republic has already decided and the Budget will confirm. What concerns PSD and CDS is that those cuts that have been made are eliminated, that these rights and incomes are restored, and that workers can see their living and working conditions returned. And this is a central issue for the discussion of the State budget, but also for discussing the modernization of the State itself, which Mr. Prime Minister brought the debate. To have a modern state, its workers must be valued and recognized,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u122	... there must be respect for their rights and their wages, their working hours must be valued, they must be defined with dignity and respect for the reconciliation of their family and personal life, there must be conditions of career progression and professional valorization and must end the drama, which reaches thousands of workers, of precarious links in the Public Administration, of employment-inclusion contracts,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u123	... individual employment contracts or other forms of employment which do not ensure a stable link to the tasks they perform. These central issues, which are a good part of the problems faced by the State, have to do with the disrespect of the former Government for the rights of employees of the Public Administration. The question we are asking is whether today the Government is in a position to respond to these concerns and to these problems, which we have identified here, of the workers of the Public Administration and of the State business sector. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u124	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u125	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, advised caution on one point: we do not know who cheated, cheated the European Commission or were misleading the Portuguese! And we would only know if they had continued in the government: we would now be wondering if what was temporary, after all, was definitive. We are well aware that they have never been able to deceive the Portuguese, and it is important not to forget what they did with the overtax of the IRS in 2015. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] There is no modern state without qualified public administration and no qualified public administration without qualified and motivated workers. That is why it is essential to restore the salaries and give peace to the workers, in the sense that their salaries will be maintained. It is, moreover, extraordinary that the right is at work in this way, as if we were giving something to civil servants who were not only returning what was already done by public servants. This is because we are talking not of increase but of the replacement of salaries, and that is why, by nature, that measure had to be, and it could only be, temporary, as, indeed, the Constitutional Court clearly stated, and they had, for all purposes, to end by assuming, saying that they would have to restore 20 % / year, until the end of the legislature. Mr President, it is not only a matter of maturity, but it is a matter that concerns the importance of the replacement of 35 hours, and the way in which the Administration organizes and recompossessssses its centres of competence. Something very negative that has happened in the State over the past few years — and not only in the last government, it must be recognised - it has been the decapitalisation of the State of qualified technicians. That is why, in hiring new frameworks for the State, we will give priority to qualified frameworks, which we can add to competence centres. We must not have superlegals in each of the services, but we must have a centre of legal competence that ensures the State a high level of consulting and that it does not have to systematically hire large law firms, so that it may have its own resources in the State to defend the public interest. [[Congratulations from the PS, from the BE and PCP Members.]] The same applies to the financial analysis. And it is in the conversion of these centres of competence, which are absolutely central, that we define our public administration policy as a real management of human resources, which obviously implies valuing people. It is a new way of managing the tables in the administration as a whole, not service but in an increasingly cross-sectional way, so that we can, at the same time, obtain for each one greater personal accomplishment and for everyone, for the collective, for the taxpayer, the best service by the Public Administration. This is our vision, the vision that we have about valuing the public function throughout this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u126	You have the floor, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u127	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would just like to leave a note of concern on an issue which you have not referred to and which, for the CFP, is important, I am referring to the size of the precariousness that exists in the Public Administration. This is because, from insertion contracts to various forms of precariousness, we also have the idea that, for a permanent job, there must be an effective employment contract. And, therefore, we ask that in your concerns and proposals take into account the precariousness of thousands of public administration workers. [[PCP applause.]] I would also like to raise another question. There is a complaint, made by the former Director of the Tax Authority and confirmed by the same authority, that in Portugal the richest among the rich do not pay the due taxes, thus revealing to the State and the community an estimated value in the order of EUR 3000 million per year in IRS. It is known that the Tax Authority, using its databases and external information, has been able to collect taxpayers with a real estate of more than EUR 25 million or annual incomes of more than EUR 5 million. It is for now 240 people who in 2014 paid only EUR 48 million in IRS, a clearly insignificant value, taking into account the very high income and heritage of these people. A company that sells tax consulting services considers that these millionaire taxpayers constitute a universe of 1000 people fleeing taxes. It's EUR 3000 million away from taxes, it's a lot of money! I almost wanted to quote Dr. Durão Barroso, who at one time said: « It's a mass pipe! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And, yes! It is EUR 3000 million that runs away from tax. Those who never run away and pay are always those who live from the income of their work and the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And the question I would like to ask is whether, on the one hand, the Government has elements in its possession on the true dimension of this situation and whether, on the other hand, it is considering taking appropriate measures to put an end to this scandal. This is because, Prime Minister, we will soon see those who spend their lives ininvesting those who wish to restore legitimate rights and income to workers and populations, because they look heavily at this serious national problem. And this is a decisive problem for the budgetary level to find the necessary revenue to respond to the problems of workers, the people and the country. for our part, we believe that it is time to take measures that provide the Tax and Customs Authority with the means and instruments to combat tax evasion of the richest taxpayers, but also a new alternative of fairer fiscal policy, more appropriate to the needs of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u128	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u129	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, in fact on the question of public administration workers, I have not yet responded to everything and there are three aspects that I appreciate the opportunity to resume. The first has to do with the commitment contained in the Government Programme, that after these years of replacement of salaries from 2018, we can resume the process of defrosting progressions and promotions in careers, unlocking a fundamental right of civil servants of the Public Administration and indispensable for their motivation in career perspective. The second relates to the appreciation of the collective contract within the Public Administration, which is particularly relevant, as we have seen, for example, about its need for the application of the new 35 hours a week. The third aspect, which is what you stressed, has to do with the precariousness. The commitment of the Government's programme in this area is very clear: putting an end to the use of temporary contracts for functions that justify the existence of an effective job. The state must set an example. The State must have a great deal of action with regard to the abuse in the private sector, with regard to the instruments of precariousness, and the best way to do it is to start by itself being exemplary in this matter. As regards large taxpayers, tax administration already has very important aggregated information, but it must continue to collect information. This week, within the framework of the OECD, an agreement was signed with a view to exchanging information between financial administrations in order to strengthen the consolidation of this heritage, not only at national level but also at international level. And, in the context of the reform of the tax system, which we have to deal with throughout this year — indeed, on the basis of the commitment we have between ourselves — this is a central issue to ensure fiscal justice. We cannot continue to have a fiscal system supported by a middle class, increasingly crushed by the weight of the resources that are taxed to it, leaving the large incomes, which should be taxed more, free of any taxation. This is one of the situations that exacerbates fiscal injustice in Portugal. And this is a job we have to do throughout the year. As soon as this forced march ends when we have been ( close 2015, twelfths and Budget for 2016 ), we will begin to address the fundamental issues of fiscal justice in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u130	To put questions to you, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u131	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister: a previous note, perhaps so that Mr Prime Minister can remind the party of the "automobileists" who, in the previous term, have made an environmental tax reform, so they called it, where they created the carbon rate, thus increasing the price of fuels. An environmental taxation aimed only at bringing out the Portuguese EUR 150 million, that is, in a framework where, on the one hand, wage cuts and the brutal increase in taxes and, on the other hand, lower taxes for large economic groups, including IRC. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Remember that there to the « motorists' party ». Mr Prime Minister, the right has come here to ask you for interventions that have made it a subservient to Brussels. The Greens come here to ask you not to serve Brussels.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u132	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u134	Dialoguer, yes, subservient, no! There are those who look, once and for all, for the interests and needs of the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u136	Mr Prime Minister, the European Commission was part of the troika. The troika came to make experiments in Portugal and these experiments resulted in a brutal level of impoverishment. And I would like to say to you, Prime Minister, with which eyes The Greens will look at the next State budget. Is there a risk of greater impoverishment of Portuguese people or not? Is there a risk of breaking this cycle of impoverishment of Portuguese people or not? This is going to be our main look, because it's enough! once and for all, we have to have a political turn that looks at the needs and the living conditions of the Portuguese. Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to ask you a question which is extremely relevant to the Portuguese and which relates to this cycle, now successive, of pollution in the river Tejo. We have to look at this country heritage with another look. And the Tejo River is constantly being attacked through illegal discharges and insufficient tails for the maintenance of its ecosystems. Therefore, Prime Minister, I ask whether or not the Portuguese Government is determined to request a review of the Albufeira Convention from Spain. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u137	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u138	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, that is our attitude towards Brussels. We want to be a dialogueist, we want to be cooperative, but of course we have a policy and a policy that is necessary not only for Portugal, but also for the euro area as a whole. This is because if we do not grow up, if we do not create jobs, if we fail to achieve sustainable growth, we will always be a problem in the euro area. And what we need is to be able to stop being a problem and become a contribution to the solutions of Europe's problems as a whole. And this happens not to disguise the structural problems that the country has, but to attack them, and to attack them realistically. Our competitiveness deficit is not resolved, as the right has believed, in a cycle of impoverishment. It is not downgrading wages and impoverishing collectively that we will be competitive. Our competitiveness gains by investing in education,... [[What a discovery!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u139	... in the modernization of the state, in the modernization of enterprises, in technological innovation. That is how we will gain greater competitiveness and that is how we can grow in a healthier way. And that is why this will be a Budget that breaks with the cycle of impoverishment and opens a new cycle of tranquility and reinstatement of family income in Portugal. Regarding the river Tejo, since 2015 there have been worrying signs of increasing levels of pollution. Therefore, in January, the Government set up a committee that will become a monitoring committee and seek to identify the sources to present a control strategy for these emissions. And we have to do this work together with Spain, since it is a river that we share, both in its opportunities and in its risks, and unfortunately also in its emissions. This committee is therefore working since January and as quickly as possible we will have the data needed to be able to intervene effectively in this river, which is the main Portuguese river, the main international river of the Iberian Peninsula, on which we must act with the greatest urgency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u140	You have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u141	Mr President, Prime Minister, the management of international rivers with Spain is a fundamental issue. And we do not have to be very supportive of Spain or Spain, but we have to manage this issue so that we can at least maintain ecological flows in Portugal that allow us the sustainability of this international river. This conversation with Spain is therefore essential in order to ensure this natural heritage and its sustainability. Mr Prime Minister, today it has come to the public that the commitment made to the reduction of VAT in the restoration may not apply to all products of the restoration. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, not to understand this matter as closed. There is a legitimate expectation regarding the VAT reduction commitment of the restoration, and that is a question that needs to be discussed, particularly with all the actors in the sector involved, which we will certainly resume in the debate on the State budget. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u142	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u143	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, we are in dialogue, particularly with ARESP, on the implementation of this measure. The estimates we had regarding the impact of this measure had a budgetary cost of EUR 350 million and the information provided by the tax administration shows that the impact of the measure is far greater than we had anticipated. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u144	Therefore, we are in contact with ARESP on the implementation of this commitment, which will be fulfilled, so that the effective impact is commensurate with the budgetary effort. The proposal we made was that the reduction in VAT should already apply from 1 July to the entire feeding service, which corresponds to about 85 % of the expenditure on the meal. ARESP proposed that it be extended to some drinks, particularly to the entire cafeteria service, such as lunch kisses, milk socks, gallons, teas. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] We are considering this process and we are and are defining with ARESP a monitoring process, by the end of the year, to complete our commitment in 2017 to the full reduction of the VAT of the restoration also to those 15 % that may not immediately be covered. [[PSD protests.]] But at the moment this is not a closed step either in the dialogue with the operators or in the debate that will naturally take place in this House of the Republic. But we have, as we have done with all other measures, to implement it in view of its actual cost, in order to make a sustainable budget implementation compatible. Here is an example of gradualism that the right is so critical that it does not exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u145	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Prime Minister, given the high importance of the matter, I again bring to debate the issue of oil and gas exploration and exploration contracts which contribute nothing to the modernization of the country. I cannot fail to congratulate the Government first of all for announcing that it will not conclude any more contracts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u147	It is incomprehensible that contracts concluded have been negotiated by the Government without listening to civil society, academia and the authorships, who strive to manage and guarantee sustainability practices in the regions concerned. Local citizens and managers are attracted, Prime Minister. Even this week, in statements to a media, the Minister of the Sea came to say that "there can be no prejudice to any economic activity and think it is bad only because, within and in theory, it could have environmental damage. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Prime Minister, this is an indicator that the Government continues to favour economic interests in relation to the foreseeable and catastrophic environmental impacts. A political leader must, above all, guard for the common good. I remember that the safeguarding of the local economy and jobs is also at stake. Accounts made, which are possible for us, the onshore holdings granted in the Algarve project an estimated annual revenue of EUR 1.5 billion, while the tourist activity of the region already contributes with revenue of the order of EUR 5 billion. It is clear that the financial return of this business is not significant in view of the profits of tourism that the country may lose. Mr. Prime Minister, I have two questions to ask you. First question: since the onshore work has not yet begun, what is the impediment to reverse these contracts? Second question: are you willing to share with the country, with the citizens, with the autarchs the cost of revoking each contract? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, it seems to us that this matter does not remain here, that there is transparency, public discussion and flexibility of the Government to meet what is the country's best interests. And I have already announced that, on this issue, we will still present a draft resolution today. Question, to finish: Dr. António Costa, all the heads of government remain in history. How will you want to be remembered in the future?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u148	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u149	Mr President, Mr André Silva, be assured that I am not distressed about how I will be remembered by history. [[So far it hasn't been well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u150	Oh, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen... With regard to the issue you have raised, Mr André Silva, I would like to say the following: of course, the contracts that are concluded must be fulfilled. And the government has already made a commitment not to conclude new contracts. The contracts being implemented are being carefully accompanied by the National Fuel Market Entity. Licences issued are exclusively for prospectus and in no case have been issued licences for exploitation. With regard to prospecting, which is authorized is done by conventional means, so in no case is the use of fracking or hydraulic fracture authorized. There is no such authorization. And, since 2013, any requests for authorization for non-conventional exploration would be subject to an environmental impact study, which would necessarily involve the Portuguese Environment Agency, the Nature Conservation Institute and the National Civil Engineering Laboratory and which would naturally be open to the participation of civil society and local authorities. So, what is currently at stake, and only, is prospecting through conventional means. With regard to contracts, which are signed, valid and in place, these contracts cannot be called into question. That is why these will be executed and no new step will be taken without proper evaluation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u151	At the end of the round of questions from the parliamentary groups, Mr Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Member of the Government, we will already discuss the budget guidelines for 2016, but first of all I will make a brief reference to the subject proposed by the Government. in fact, the modernization of the state, in all its dimensions, is a fundamental factor for the economic recovery and the competitiveness of the country. We have already said, by the voice of Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, that a competitive economy requires public policies focused on the elimination of unnecessary bureaucracy, the reduction of context costs and the predictability and transparency of state relations with natural and collective people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we attach to these plans the expected results of incentives to the economy, the effect of the structural funds, which are already coming to our entrepreneurs, and the prospects of a Friendly State Budget for people and businesses, we can hope for better times. Therefore, we are talking about this budget guideline: the deficit is higher than the objective set out in the draft budget proposal; the budget includes measures with significant risks; it has ceased to have temporary measures subject to a total or partial reversal without having been replaced by structural measures;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u153	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u154	... the structural balance is below the recommended improvement; the structural effort adjusted is much lower than required; the consolidation measures clearly fall short of the recommended; the result will be considerably worse; compliance by Portugal is at risk; the effects of employment reforms are uncertain; measures are necessary to ensure the compliance of the Budget with the Stability and Growth Pact. No, Mr. Prime Minister, I didn't understand! No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, don't be suffocated! These are not my considerations on the budget outline presented for 2016, but on the comments of the European Commission to the budget draft submitted by the PSD/PP Government for 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the same sense, it could cite reservations and comments exposed by different rating agencies and even UTAO. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u155	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, you could say now, in an effort to understand the doubts this week of the European Commission, that « cold water heated cat is afraid! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” in fact, the PSD/PP government has become a recognized credit specialist in selling cats per hare, and now it is necessary to revert. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, here it is: reverse the image that the PSD/PP government has given from Portugal in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that prospects in some Member States can now inspire more stringent scrutiny and demands on the part of the European Commission, as is the case particularly in countries such as Italy, Lithuania, Spain, Ireland, Slovenia, France, with different entities and risks. In addition, more than the budget strategy, which can and should be questioned, and more than the propaganda against Portugal that the PSD is making from door to door, is the fame of these last years that can benefit us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, the European Commission has its reasons for the history of presumptions and non-compliances of the former Portuguese Government. We are now committed to understanding the orientation and rationale of the forecasts we make and that the new Government is seeking to guide towards a rapprochement with the European rules and the rules laid down in the Stability Pact. We are even committed, as we have heard from the head of government, to say that this approach can be as close as possible, without compromising our objectives with the Portuguese to improve their incomes, create jobs and boost the business economy. What is now being asked, Mr Prime Minister, is how is it that those who rarely did what they assumed and did what they said they would do, such as the PSD and the CDS-PP, now have the authority to join others who legitimately have doubts and, as well, how politicians who are also Portuguese do not hesitate to prejudice the interests of their country and their fellow citizens abroad. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u156	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u157	Despite this, Mrs and Mrs. Members, since the government presented the outline of its 2016 Budget, public debt interest has been systematically decreasing to 10 years... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and despite this, the survey at the present disclosed INE scenario shows that, unlike the growth of our entrepreneurs' investments in 0, 1 % in 2015, their forecast for 2016 is a growth of 3, 1 %. These are the effects of the outline presented by the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It would certainly be better if they had not delayed spending for 2016 and anticipated revenues for 2015 if they had met the estimated value for the deficit if they had not left us 260 million deficits in the National Health Service, unlike the 30 million they had promised. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It would be better if they hadn't left us 2 million poor people who need to come immediately; it would be better if they hadn't left us the situation of chaos in the financial sector. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u158	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for some quiet in the Chamber so that Mr. Carlos César can finish his speech. Please, Mr. Deputy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u159	Mr. President, it is still fresh, for example, Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho's failed forecast of the return of the overtax of IRS in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I remember what was promised in Guimarães in September last month. Pedro Passos Coelho said: «We know today that they...» — that is how he spoke of taxpayers, « they» — «...will receive a significant part of this overtax». Now, ex-Minister of Finance, this is propaganda fraud, it is not now a disappointment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, Prime Minister, there is never one way to make the same path. the PS and the Government must remain the message that we are neither here nor to deceive the Portuguese, nor to mislead the European Union, nor to deceive ourselves. We believe in the project that we have in our hands and believe that, with intelligent governance, we can pursue the objectives that we simultaneously propose: to manage our public accounts rigorously, to continue in fiscal consolidation, to boost our economy, to create more employment and to strengthen social protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u160	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u161	For us, the indicators of deficit or debt are not an objective in themselves, nor do we govern hostages of economics or political numerology, but we are aware of the limits on which we move and also do not exclude from these limits our political commitments and our Programme, approved in this Parliament. We, Mr President, have taken lessons from the most remote past as from the most recent past.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u162	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u163	We insist, it is true, on a narrow path, but it is worth it and we feel that we are a patriotic obligation and a good government: to look after public finances without neglecting the economy and not neglecting the dignity of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u164	To close the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos César, the question of credibility is in fact a central issue and it begins by being a question of credibility of our dialogue with the citizens. We cannot carry out an election campaign to be elected by promising something and then by doing the opposite. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why the commitments we make are the commitments we have to honour. We are well aware that the turn of budgetary policy is not easy. It is not easy because it involves various tensions: it involves the tension of increasing the replacement of salaries, which we want to do; the reduction of the tax burden, which we want to do; but the fulfilment of the budgetary targets, which we want to meet. Therefore, from the very beginning we assume, of course, the need to conduct this process of change so that it is done in a safe and responsible way. First, with commitment capacity. We knew that we had not enough majority and therefore we built with our PCP, the Left Block and the Greens a parliamentary majority in the Assembly of the Republic that gives political support to the change that is necessary. That involved commitments. We argued, for example, that the replacement of civil servants' salaries would be made in two years and our partners understood that it should be done at the beginning of this year, but it was possible to negotiate a solution that would allow what is essential, i.e. that by the end of this year all civil servants would have responded equally to the maturity that had been cut from them by the governance of the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that, with regard to the overtax, we had proposed to reduce half this year for everyone and half for the year too, but in the negotiation we did it was possible to distribute in a fairer way this effort, allowing to completely eliminate the overtax already this year for the overwhelming majority of families, lifting the overtax for a small part of the families for the next year. That is why in the effort to approach the European Union, we have sought to monitor the reduction of nominal deficit and structural deficit with new measures: new measures that are not incompatible with what we promise the Portuguese and new measures that are not incompatible with what we have agreed with our partners, but which serve the objective, with which we also commit ourselves, to meet the budget target. We made choices, because governing is to make choices: either we sacrificed labour income or penalized the seal tax on consumer credit, because we want to stimulate domestic demand, but sustained on a higher income and not on a higher household debt. So we penalized debt, increased the minimum wage, returned income, and we are relieving the tax burden. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Governing is making choices. But we are not afraid of the debate, neither with our predecessors nor with the European Commission. And with the same constructive spirit that we internally dialogue with other political forces, with the social partners, we will also dialogue with the European Commission. What we do not accept is that it confuses what is not likely to be confused, so we cannot accept that the cessation of measures that were temporary are regarded as structural change. No, taking structural measures is to move and amend measures that had a definitive effect. The problem we are dealing with is not a makeup problem, it is a classification problem, because the European Commission was convinced that the cuts in salaries were definitive when what had been said to us was that they were temporary. I was convinced that the overtax was definitive when what we had been promised was that it was temporary. Therefore, this issue of classification in dialogue with the European Union is a strictly technical matter, but from the point of view of parliamentary assessment it is indeed political, because it has to do with the credibility of this government, but with the government that has spoken in Portugal and another speech before the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Some people think that they can systematically play with numbers to create the illusion of politics. Number two of the CDS-PP said: « There is 0 % increase in the solidarity complement for the elderly ». But what picture did the CDS-PP invoke? It called for a framework on the impact of measures on GDP, i.e. the percentage of the value of these measures on GDP. However, if the product increases, the impact of this measure may not imply an increase in its weight in GDP, if GDP increases more than the weight of that measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the CDS-PP should retain is neither statistical exercises nor relative comparisons. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] What the CDS-PP has to retain and that it must retain, as much as the nervousness of Mr. João Pinho de Almeida forces you to manage and verbalize successively apart, is the following: between increasing pensions and increasing the solidarity complement for the elderly, our elderly will receive, with this government, more than 70 million euros than they would receive with your government and with the continuity of your policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To conclude, Mr President, it is indeed with the building of confidence, with the determination to pursue policies that generate confidence. And for those who so much like to hear about exports and reindustrialization, I suggest, indeed, a good item to analyze the confidence that has been generated in the country: today, the National Institute of Statistics published an inquiry into the expectations of entrepreneurs and what reveals is the expectation of processing industries, in the exporting sector, to increase their investment by 18 %, which is a clear sign of confidence in the future of the Portuguese economy and their ability to grow and assert themselves in the external market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the best sign of confidence, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u166	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we have reached the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Members for their presence. Members of the Government and we will proceed to the votes scheduled for today. I request the services that operate the electronic system...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u167	Mr President, I call on the Bureau to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u168	What's the point, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u169	Mr President, I would like to request the distribution of a document cited by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u170	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u171	Mr President, if I may, I would like to request the distribution of the table corresponding to point 6 of the budget outline on the budgetary impact on GDP, in which, as Mr Prime Minister said, the solidarity complement for the elderly is the only one that has no impact, unlike all the others. I therefore request your distribution, for the sake of the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u172	It will be distributed, Mr. Deputies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the voting period. I request the services to activate the electronic quorum verification system and, as soon as the system is in place, the Members and the Members of Parliament. Members register, which, as you already know, can be done through the touch screen or keyboard / mouse. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic table records 214 presences, to which more than 2 presences are added, of the Members. Mr Carlos César and Mr Paulo Portas, who, by the way, failed to register themselves, making a total of 216 Members present. We therefore have a quorum for deliberation. Let us then begin the voting, beginning with vote No 36 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Bernardino Manuel de Vasconcelos ( PSD and PS ). I ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died on September 7, 2015, at the age of 68, Bernardino Manuel de Vasconcelos, a remarkable personality of the local movement of the municipality of Trofa. Having been born, in 1946, in Moçámédes, Angola colonial, he graduated from Medicine at the Faculty of Medicine, in 1974, with the specialty of Pediatrics, having been a renowned pediatrician. Between 1988 and 1995 he was President of the Board of Directors and Clinical Director of the Hospital Conde São Bento, in Santo Tirso. He had an intense life in party activity as a militant of the Social Democratic Party, having been Secretary of Bureau of the Assembly of Freguesia of São Martin de Bougado and Mayor of the Municipal Chamber of Santo Tirso. Bernardino Vasconcelos was also elected a member of the Assembly of the Republic by the Social Democratic Party, in the VII legislature, exercising his mandate from 1995 to 1998. It was on January 22, 1999, completing this year 17 years, that he took office as Chairman of the Installing Commission of the Municipality of Trofa, in the Civil Government of Porto. Bernardino Vasconcelos led this Commission, after being approved in the Assembly of the Republic the establishment of the Town Hall of the Trofa. In 2001 he was elected President of the Municipal Chamber of the Trofa, where he developed a work worthy of recalling. over the years, Bernardino Vasconcelos was permanently involved with the problems of his monks, through permanent work and proximity. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to Bernardino Vasconcelos for the work he has done in favour of the rights of the Trofenses, approving a vote of regret for his death and expressing his feelings to his family."
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u174	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 37 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Unfortunately, the International Day of Memory of Holocaust Victims ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes ) is signed. Before giving the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Mr Pacheco, to proceed with his reading, I welcome the presence of the ladies and gentlemen among us. Representatives of the Jewish community and of Mr. Nuncio Apostolico, Dean of Ambassadors in Portugal. Please proceed with the reading of the vote, Mr Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Assembly of the Republic is associated for the sixth time with the international evocation that reminds the victims of the Holocaust. In addition to the consecration of January 27 as the ‘ International Day of Memory of Holocaust Victims ’, the Portuguese Parliament has undertaken to promote its memory and education in schools and universities, communities and other institutions, ‘ so that future generations may understand the causes of the Holocaust and reflect on its consequences ’ in order to ‘ avoid future acts of genocide. ’ This evocation contains a lesson that has today for our time, as it reflects the victory of life and humanity on the black side of human nature, enlightens us about what we have been and what we are, and helps us to know how to recognize history and affirm the value of dialogue among men, among religions, among cultures and among civilizations, so that the Holocaust never repeats itself. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to all the victims of the Holocaust who have lost their lives by the hands of the Nazis and their accomplices, and recalls this date, confirming their responsibility not to forget it».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u176	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to these two votes of regret, I would ask all of us to keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] I now ask the Secretary, Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão, to proceed with the reading of vote No 33 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — As a tribute to the memory of Virgil Ferreira, in the centenary of his birth ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In Melo, village of Serra da Estrela, was born Vergílio António Ferreira. As a child, he sees parents, Antonio Augusto Ferreira and Josefa Ferreira, leaving for Canada. It was a painful and traumatic separation, as I would well describe in his book Nitido Nulo, and this orphanage as he accompanied him for life outside. The times of childhood and adolescence in the Serra da Estrela, the snow, the serrana villages, Melo, always Melo, with its landscapes and characters, will become fundamental elements of all its Romanesque imagination. Only part of his library and his literary husbandship to the Municipal Library, which bears his name in Gouveia, was the way he found to thank the land where he learned the ‘ sensibility that goes down to him. ’ When, at the age of 80, on March 1, 1996, he died in Lisbon, returned to Melo as his wish, to rest, Forever, turned to the greenhouse. The literary career of Vergílio Ferreira begins, still a student, in Coimbra. His first novel, 1939, is The Way Stays Long. Where All was Morrendo, Cargon J and Manhã Submersa insert into the so-called neorealist current to then reverse to what is called romance-problem, with existential indications, with Change and, above all, with Apparitions. With many of his works translated into different languages—Forever, In the Name of the Earth, in Your Face, Vergílio Ferreira deserved the most relevant prizes of our literature, such as the Camões Prize. It has never been a neutral personality and has always assumed with frontality the defense of its truth: ‘ A truth is only true when brought to the ultimate consequences. It’s not even a truth, it’s an opinion. ’ Virgil Ferreira wrote, one day, ‘Do not run after glory, because only she can run after you’. the day on which the centenary of the birth of Vergílio Ferreira is signed, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays due and fair tribute to the memory of one of the most important Portuguese writers and author of so many larger works of our fiction».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u178	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now ask the Secretary, Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão, to proceed with the reading of vote No 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a) — Condemning the approval of certain provisions on immigration and asylum by the Parliament of the Kingdom of Denmark ( Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities and others).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "The Danish Parliament approved, on 26 January, by a large majority, a new legislative package for the area of immigration and asylum, providing for the possibility of confiscation of property in the possession of refugees to whom stay in that country has been authorized, at a value exceeding €1340. This legislation constitutes, both from the humanitarian and the most fundamental point of view, respect for the rights enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights, that the Kingdom of Denmark is a signatory, a shocking precedent. That which is already internationally called ‘the law of jewels’, in addition to giving itself to historical comparisons that defy universal consciousness, and European in particular, signals an obvious political, legal, social and civilizational retrogression, where balanced weighting of solutions and human solidarity gives rise to a populism contrary to the values of humanity and civilization, whose European genesis honors us above all, and which inspires, with a matrix character, the construction of united Europe, after 1945. Thus, it cannot be indifferent, in the face of these worrying developments, to the Assembly of the Republic expresses its vehement repudiation for the approval of legislation by the Kingdom of Denmark, which allows the authorities of that country to confiscate the ownership of war refugees in flagrant disregard for fundamental values inherent to human dignity".
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u180	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u181	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u182	Mr President, the document that has just been read uses the expression 'Human rights'. There is a resolution adopted unanimously in this plenary that precisely recommends that this expression should not be used, which is not inclusive, and that it should be replaced by the inclusive expression "Human Rights".
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u183	Madam Member, as this vote has been tabled by Members of all parties, I think that this amendment is peaceful and, therefore, the Bureau will proceed immediately to its correction. Mrs. Members, let us then vote on vote No 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote for the draft resolution No 4 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Sets out the composition, distribution and list of parliamentary friendship groups in the XIII Legislation ( RA President ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the vote against the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u184	Mr President, I call on the Bureau to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u185	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u186	Mr President, it is not possible to have a differentiated vote, since all parliamentary friendship groups are included in a single list and are presented together in this draft deliberations, I would not like to allow this moment to pass without mentioning that, if there was an individual vote in relation to each of the parliamentary friendship groups, the Left Bloc would vote against the Parliamentary Groups of Amizade Portugal-Saudi Arabia and Portugal-Guiné Equatorial. In fact, we have already made our position clear at the Conference of Leaders and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities. however, we do not prevent the existence of the other parliamentary groups of friendship.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u187	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u188	I also call on the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u189	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u190	Mr President, following the discussion we had before, I would also like to point out that the CFP Parliamentary Group, which voted like all the other parliamentary groups in favour of the establishment of the parliamentary friendship groups, will not be part of the parliamentary friendship groups whose constitution does not follow, as has been our practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u191	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u192	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I and Mrs Susana Amador will deliver a written vote statement of the same content as the interventions of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u193	They can also make a different and intermediate declaration of vote. [[Laughing.]] It is registered, Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz. Let us now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 107 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eighth amendment to Law No 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December — Update of the minimum pension value, social pension and rural pension at inflation level ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 112 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The eighth amendment is made to Law No 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December, which creates the indexer of social support and new rules for the updating of pensions and other social benefits of the social security system ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u194	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u195	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u196	Mr President, it is only to inform that on the votes of the two draft laws we have just held, the Left Block will present a statement of vote. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u197	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u198	Mr President, on these two votes we shall also present a statement of vote which will certainly be ashamed of the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u199	Mr President, it is recorded, but this is a substantive assessment which does not take place at this time of vote. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u200	Mr President, for the same purpose, that is to say that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the two votes that we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u201	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 58 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the identification of the consequences of cuts in the National Health Service ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 64 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Lifting needs in the SNS and urgent intervention in services with serious failures or potentially broken ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 47 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Artistic pupils who are impaired in access to higher education without pedagogical or curricular justification ( BE), whose text, as you know, was replaced at the request of the authors. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 107 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by valuing continuous evaluation in the pedagogical process and in the system of access to higher education, by non-discrimination of specialized artistic education students ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 112 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government evaluate the model of access to higher education by specialized artistic students in order to ensure equal opportunities for all students ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on draft law No 79 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Maintenance of the Fund's Hospital under public management ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u202	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u203	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u204	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on this matter. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u205	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, Bill No 79 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) down to 9. the Commission. Let us now vote in general on Bill No 85 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Reversion of the Hospital Conde de São Bento, in Santo Tirso, to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE of the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This bill also falls to 9. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 78 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Reversion of the District Hospital of São João da Madeira to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE of the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, this bill also goes down to 9. the Commission. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 92 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the Fund's Hospital and the necessary investment in it ( BE ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE of the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 94 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the Hospital de Santo Tirso as well as the necessary investment in it ( BE ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE of the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 95 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the Hospital de S. João da Madeira, as well as the necessary investment in it ( BE ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE of the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 103 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by maintaining the Fundão Hospital ( an integral part of the CHCB) in the National Health Service ( PS ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE of the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now turn to the vote on draft resolution No 108 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the process of the return of hospitals to Mercy ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the EB of the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u206	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u207	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u208	Mr President, it is only to inform the Bureau that I will also subscribe to the statement of vote which has recently been announced by Mr Manuel Frexes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u209	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 113 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Maintenance of the process of the return of hospitals to the Mercy ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the EB of the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 109 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By public management and at the service of the populations of the Hospital de Santo Tirso and by the necessary improvement in human and material resources ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 110 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By public management and at the service of the populations of the Hospital de São João da Madeira and by the necessary improvement in human and material resources (The Greens). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u210	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u211	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u212	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote on all the votes we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-29.u213	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now turn to the vote on draft resolution No 76 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgency in resolving obstacles to the issue of the Vitality Citizen Card ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on the proposal for a law No 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Income Tax Code for Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November, transposing Council Directive 2015 / 121 / EU of 27 January 2015 amending Council Directive 2011 / 96 / EU of 30 November 2011 on the common tax system applicable to parent companies and affiliated companies of different Member States. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus come to the end of the votes and our work today. The next plenary session will be held on Wednesday, 3 February, beginning at 3 p.m., with political statements on agenda item 1, and in point 2, the assessment of petition No 546 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Independent Union of Teachers and Educators ( SIPE ), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to amend Decree-Law No 132 / 2012 of 27 June in order to shape professional graduation as the sole criterion for the selection and placement of teachers at all competitive times and the urgent opening of school grouping places. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good weekend everyone — my votes and the Bureau — and thank you very much for the constructive nature of the speeches in this session. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 36 minutes.]]
