ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities opening the galleries. I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary of the Bureau, to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, bills: Nos 110 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Promotes the establishment of an administrative committee to regulate the debts of the former Douro House and the situation of its employees ( PS ), which fell to 7. the Commission ; 111 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Inclusion of a vegetarian option in all public canteens ( NAPs ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; 112 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — The eighth amendment is made to Law No 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December, which creates the indexer of social support and new rules for the updating of pensions and other social benefits of the social security system ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; and 113 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Maintenance of the process of the return of hospitals to the Mercy ( CDS-PP ). They also entered the table, having been admitted, draft resolutions 103/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by maintaining the Fundão Hospital ( an integral part of the CHCB) in the National Health Service ( PS ) ; 104 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to prevent the practice of fishing and illegal hunting in protected areas of the island of Santa Maria in the Azores ( PAN ) archipelago, which falls to 7. the Commission ; 105 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government intervene with the Government of Spain in order to close the Almaraz ( PAN ) nuclear power plant, which falls to 11. the Commission ; 106 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a national study on the impact of the distance travelled by food from its production to consumption ( NAP ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; 107 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — by valuing continuous evaluation in the pedagogical process and in the system of access to higher education, by non-discrimination of specialized artistic education students ( CFP ) ; 108 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the process of the return of hospitals to mercy ( PSD ) ; 109 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — By public management and at the service of the populations of the Hospital de Santo Tirso and by the necessary improvement in human and material resources ( The Greens); 110 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — By public management and at the service of the populations of the Hospital de São João da Madeira and by the necessary improvement in human and material resources ( The Greens) ; 111 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Protection against digital censorship ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission ; 112 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government evaluate the model of access to higher education by specialized artistic students in order to ensure equal opportunities for all students ( PS ) ; and 113 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government legislate to allow the Portuguese Environment Association to share tasks with SEPNA in the context of environmental crimes, in particular by training and certifying its agents so that they can collect evidence that has a legal framework ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission. He also gave the Bureau a report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees concerning the waiver of the mandate in accordance with Articles 3. a is 7. the Statute of the Deputies of Mrs Inês de Medeiros ( PS ), electoral circle of Setúbal, being replaced by Mrs Francisca Luís Baptista Parreira, with effect from 24 January, including. The opinion is in the sense of waiver and the replacement of the Member concerned is to be admitted, since the legal requirements are met.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us therefore enter the agenda, the first item of which is the reading of the messages of the President of the Republic on the dismissal, without promulgation, of the Decrees of the Assembly of the Republic Nos. 6 / XIII — Repeal of Laws Nos. 134 / 2015 of 7 September on the payment of moderate rates at the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, and 136 / 2015 of 7 September (first amendment to Law No. 16 / 2007 of 17 April on the exclusion of lawlessness in cases of voluntary termination of pregnancy) and 7 / XIII — Elimination of discrimination in access to adoption, civil assistance and other family legal relations, making the second amendment to Law No. 7 / 2001 of 11 May, the first amendment to Law No. 9 / 2010 of 31 May, the twentieth amendment to the Civil Registry Code, approved by Decree-Law No. 131 / 95 of 6 June, and the first amendment to Decree No. I shall read the message of the President of the Republic concerning the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 6 / XIII : « Having received on 4 January 2016 in order to be promulgated as a law, Decree No 6 / XIII of the Assembly of the Republic, which repeals Laws No 134 / 2015 of 7 September 2015 on the payment of moderate rates at voluntary termination of pregnancy, and Decree No 136 / 2015 of 7 September ( first amendment to Law No 16 / 2007 of 17 April on the exclusion of illegality in cases of voluntary termination of pregnancy ), decided in accordance with Article 136. that of the Constitution, do not promulgate that diploma, with the following grounds: 1 — The Decree in question repeals two laws adopted in 2015 and reiterates rules amended by these laws. 2 — In particular, the Decree repeals Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September providing for the provision of information to the pregnant woman on social support, on the removal of difficulties in access to the rights of her holder and on the value of her life and of her responsible motherhood and paternity. This law also establishes the obligation of psychological follow-up by social service technician during the period of reflection. 3 — On the occasion of the enactment of the law on the exclusion of illegality in cases of voluntary termination of pregnancy — Law No. 16/2007 of 17 April 2007 — now amended, I underlined, in the Message I then sent to the Assembly of the Republic, the following: ‘The provision of the above-mentioned information is something that does not only contain the freedom of decision of the woman, as it represents, on the contrary, an extremely important element, or even essential, in order for that decision to be formed, either in the most appropriate conditions or for the preservation of her psychological well-being in the future, or for a correct consideration of the conflicting interests in the presence or, in the end, as to the irreparable consequences of the act in itself. ’ 4 — The promulgation of Law No 16/2007 of 17 April 2007 was therefore, as expressly stated in that Message, on the assumption that the exclusion of illegality from the voluntary interruption of pregnancy would be accompanied by regulations that would ensure sufficient and necessary information for a conscious, free and responsible decision-making in order to strengthen the autonomy of women, as well as their follow-up in advance to the decision to interrupt pregnancy. 5 — Moreover, the Constitutional Court, in paragraphs 288 / 98 and 617 / 2006, stressed the relevance of the consultation of counseling: ‘The constitutional admissibility of the recognition of the right of voluntary termination of pregnancy performed by the woman, in the first ten weeks, in a legally authorized health establishment, or at least the waiver of the use of criminal sanctions in such circumstances, cannot, however, be interpreted as acceptance that the Basic Law enshrines abortion as a method of family planning or birth control. This is opposed to the understanding that intrauterine human life constitutes a protected legal good, regardless of the title to which such protection is due. in this conformity, they are particularly important because they may prove to be far more effective than criminal repression itself, measures common to the generality of European legislation on the subject, such as the mandatory prior consultation of counseling, in which the necessary information on social rights and support may be given to women in the event of ending pregnancy, as well as the establishment of a period of reflection between that consultation and abortion, to ensure that the woman took her decision in a free, informed and unprecipitated manner, avoiding the interruption of pregnancy caused by sudden despair. ’ 6 — As the Constitutional Court points out, the provision for a mandatory consultation prior to the decision to discontinue pregnancy is common in legal systems that are close to us. For example, in Germany, consultation of advice accompanied by a period of reflection of at least three days is required. The Spanish law also imposes a duty to inform women about social rights in maternity. 7 — The amendments adopted by Law No 136 / 2015 were mainly aimed at strengthening the information rights of pregnant women and at establishing the requirement for specialized technical follow-up during the period of reflection. 8 — The amendments introduced in the above-mentioned Law No 136 / 2015 are therefore in line with the concerns I expressed in the Message which I sent to the Assembly of the Republic on 10 April 2007 and are still in line with the provisions of legal systems that are close to us. 9 — Withdrawal now operated, although the rules previously in force, which provide for advice, decreases information rights and thereby eliminates the obligation of specialized technical assistance during the period of reflection. 10 — This amendment is considered a step backwards in defending the various values and interests in the presence, because it reduces the information provided during the decision-making process of the pregnant woman, and it must be this information, as I stated in the above message, as comprehensive as possible as a way to precisely strengthen women's freedom of decision. On the other hand, the recent legislative amendment, carried out without due public debate and adequate weighting, eliminates the requirement for technical follow-up, which, of course, constitutes a procedural strengthening of that right to information for pregnant women. 11 — Finally, in accordance with the amendments introduced by Law No 136 / 2015, the rule preventing doctors or other health professionals from referring to conscientious objection to any of the acts concerning voluntary termination of pregnancy to participate in the consultation of counseling was repealed. when this rule is reintroduced, it is reintroduced in the legal order an impediment that will not fail to be perceived as a mistrust regarding the exemption of the health professional objector of conscience, as it had already pointed out in the Message that I sent to the Assembly of the Republic on 10 April 2007, so far from all phases of a process that, it is emphasized, can both result in the interruption of pregnancy and, on the contrary, lead to the decision taken freely by the woman, without any constraints, not to interrupt her pregnancy. in this way, taking into account the legislative developments in this area and the foundations of the previous Message sent to Parliament, and to allow the Members. Members, if they so understand, a hearing of entities or personalities with relevance in this area and a more mature reflection on the legislative solutions to be adopted in an area of great political, ethical and social sensitivity, decided to return to the Assembly of the Republic without promulgation, Decree No 6/ XIII With high regard, Palace of Belém, 23 January 2016 The President of the Republic, Aníbal Cavaco Silva ». I am now reading the message from Mr President of the Republic concerning Decree No 7/ XIII : « Having received, on 4 January 2016, to be promulgated as a law, Decree No. 7 / XIII of the Assembly of the Republic, which eliminates discrimination in access to adoption, civil restraint and other family legal relations, making the second amendment to Law No. 7 / 2001 of 11 May, the first amendment to Law No. 9 / 2010 of 31 May, the twenty-third amendment to the Civil Registry Code adopted by Decree-Law No. 131 / 95 of 6 June, and the first amendment to Decree-Law No. 121 / 2010 of 27 October, decided in accordance with Article 136. that of the Constitution, do not promulgate that diploma, with the following grounds: 1 — The decree in question amends several rules which prevented the adoption by couples of the same sex. 2 — In fact, both the de facto union regime — approved by Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May 2001 — and the same sex marriage scheme — approved by Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May 2010 — excluded the possibility of adoption by couples of the same sex. Without prejudice to the controversy generated by the adoption of these diplomas, this option was based on the weighting made by the legislator of the various interests in the presence and, in particular, on the imperative need to safeguard, in all circumstances, the best interests of minors. 3 — In fact, it is consensual that the best interests of the child should prevail over all others, especially those of the adopters themselves. The interest of the child is the driving line that should guide not only the legislative options on adoption as the decision of the administrative proceedings relating to it itself. 4 — Not by chance, the law in force provides for strict monitoring of applications for adoption, so as to ensure the robustness and stability of new parental ties in situations of great fragility for children, often subject to ill-treatment or abandonment at very early ages. 5— The assumption that the Decree in question leaves is that there is discrimination between couples of different sex and couples of the same sex with regard to adoption. Now, as we have seen, the adoption institute must be governed by the best interests of the child. 6 — In this respect it is said that the argument that the legislative solution now adopted would result in a constitutional or legal imposition is meaningless, since the principle of equality does not necessarily impose the solution now enshrined. 7 — In a similar situation on same-sex marriage, the Constitutional Court, in judgments 359 / 2009 and 212 / 2010, stated: “If these considerations are generally relevant, more will be so when in the legal community they have different perspectives and distinct and inconsistent views on the causes or implications that an open principle of the Constitution should withdraw to a particular domain or to the solution of a particular legal problem. in this situation, above all — in which it must be recognized and admitted as legitimate, in the legal community, a ‘p pluralism’ worldly or conceptions— will undoubtedly comply with the legislator(the democratic legislator) to choose and decide”. 8 — This means, therefore, that according to the case-law of the Constitutional Court, equal treatment between couples of different sex and of the same sex is essentially a matter of the legislator's freedom of conformation, and no constitutional imposition can be imposed. 9 — It is also because it demonstrates the extent to which the regulatory solutions now approved promote the well-being of the child and are oriented according to their interests. In fact, a group of well-known lawyers and law professors who sent an exposition on the Decree in question to the Presidency of the Republic maintains that the regime was approved “on the basis of grounds decentralised by the legal protection of these children”. 10 — Regardless of the legislative solutions enshrined, legal amendments on adoption have merited a wide public debate by the legislator, seeking to involve civil society as a whole and thus to listen to the opinions of technicians and specialists of the most diverse ideological or global quadrants. This is understood to be in areas of great social, ethical and political sensitivity. 11 — Thus, for example, during the previous Parliament, the legislative procedure on co-adoption was initiated, which involved close to 20 hearings of associations and specialists, not having been completed. 12 — This broad debate took place, it is recalled, with regard to the possibility of co-adoption, which, although controversial, has a much more circumscribed content than that of this legislative initiative, since it is limited to cases of adoption by the spouse in relation to pre-existing paternal ties. 13 — But, contrary to what happened in the case of co-adoption, the Decree in question introduces a radical and very profound change in our legal order, allowing full and unrestricted adoption to couples of the same sex, which had always been excluded by the legislation in force, even in that which, it emphasized, approved the possibility of marriage between persons of the same sex. Therefore, regardless of a substantive judgment on the legislative solutions contained in this diploma, it is important to ensure that such a relevant change in matters of great social sensitivity does not enter into force without being preceded by a wide and enlightening public debate, involving multiple social flows and specialists in various fields with a view to the consolidation of the regulatory solution which, consensually, ensures that the best interests of minors in adoption processes are taken into account. For this reason, I decided to return to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgation, Decree No 7 / XIII. With high regard, Palace of Belém, 23 January 2016 The President of the Republic, Aníbal Cavaco Silva ». The messages of the President of the Republic shall be read. Like the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this issue is scheduled for 10 February, with the re-presentation of the proposals which have previously been adopted. We will move on to the other item on the agenda, which consists of a thematic debate required by the PS on health policy. To open the debate, on behalf of the Socialist Party, you have the floor of Mrs Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has scheduled for today a thematic debate on health for understanding that this is one of the central issues in national political today and that it is essential and urgent to transmit to the country a message of confidence in the National Health Service (SNS ), returning to this public service the prestige that it has achieved in Portuguese society and that it has been so devalued and attacked by recent right-wing governance. Defending an SNS that protects the most disadvantaged, combats inequalities and promotes a more coherent and fair society is one of the central objectives of this PS Government, which has entered into its Programme « giving priority to people, defending the SNS and promoting health ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS sees the National Health Service as one of the most important instruments of social cohesion and as the best response to those who, due to their greatest vulnerability, have in this mechanism of protection their last and often unique solution and response. Sadly, in recent years, we have seen the performance of those who, under the pretext of the public accounts crisis, have consistently used this argument to weaken the public health service and to lower the principles of universality, equity and access tends to be free of charge. in recent years, we have seen the greatest appearance of private hospitals that there is memory in such a short period of time, while in its report « Health at a Glance of 2015 », OECD testified that Portugal is one of the countries of the European Union where families most pay for their health. In 2013 more than one quarter of total health expenditure — 27, 2 % — was direct expenditure on families, paid from the private stock, in addition to their taxes. They succeeded in weakening the country, in some cases cutting twice as much as expected by the troika, but the Portuguese and, above all, the professionals did not allow the SNS to be destroyed. It is therefore essential today, more than ever, that the health policy strategy has as priority to reduce inequalities and reduce social and regional asymmetries. The most vulnerable Portuguese feel today the lack of accessibility, dehumanization and loss of quality of the SNS. The former government has hampered Portuguese access to health: it has increased the moderate rates, in some cases by 200 % of its value; it has restricted the opening of family health units, despite theoretically recognizing the merit of the model; it has kept closed continuous care equipment completed and paid, keeping patients waiting in queues in the corridors of hospitals without quality responses and thus increasing the budget charges of the Ministry of Health. Not often, in the interest of cutting numbers, the right government has forgotten people, has forgotten patients and has forgotten professionals. We saw the most experienced and qualified professionals leaving the National Health Service and watching the emigration of our most qualified young people — thousands, in the case of nurses — and the early retirements of the most experienced doctors. The National Health Service lost its most valuable capital in four years: professionals. And this is perhaps one of the greatest challenges that the Minister of Health and this government have to face: to motivate and bring back to the public sector the best professionals, who made our National Health Service one of the best in the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the Ministry of Health, we have lived in the last four years under a compressor roll, but without structural reforms. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, who governs, must not fail to have their responsibilities attached to the ethical and moral dimensions of who serves the public cause, and they cannot dissociate themselves from the quality and principles that contribute to social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u6	Our choices, though conditional on budgetary restrictions that we do not ignore, cannot contradict — and will not contradict — the principles of the right to health based on the equal and maximum dignity of the human person. Today, in this debate, as always, the PS reaffirms that it will not allow the existence of a health policy for the rich and other health policy for the poor,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that there will be no quality health care in private hospitals and lower care for those who do not have incomes. This government and the PS are here to return the SNS to its initial matrix: a public service of excellence and accessible to all, regardless of economic or social conditions. at the end of a few days of governance, this government has already taken measures that guarantee us that it will. And during the debate this afternoon, the government will certainly take into account its strategy and measures to achieve these objectives. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Article 64. the Constitution provides that everyone has the right to health protection and the duty to defend and promote. That's why we're here. The PS will defend and promote the health of all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u7	Madam Member, you will be discounted during the debate period the minutes in which you have exceeded the time allocated to your party, as is evident. To speak in the debate, you have the floor of Mrs Fatima Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to ask Mrs Luísa Salgueiro a few questions, taking the first time with the 35-hour law. The 35-hour law will come into force, so I would like to know whether the Socialist Party already has a plan to safeguard the interests of people and whether it is organized to do so in a way that does not harm the patients. Why? Because several objectives will have to be counted: on the one hand, the government has assumed, in its State budget, that it does not want to spend more; on the other hand, workers want and feel that they have the right to work less hours; on the other hand, people — and those who care about us — still have the need and the right to have the best health service. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's think, for example, of a nurse with seven nurses. The change of law implies, in practice, that it will have less than one nurse. Therefore, I would like to know whether this question is effectively safeguarded or whether, instead of having an improvement in the National Health Service, we are not harming it, destroying it and causing people to go to private, which is what we do not want. As Mrs Salgueiro said, we do not want a health policy for the rich and the poor. [[PS laughter.]] I would also like to ask the honourable Member another question. in the Committee on Health, Mr Minister said that doctors over 55 years of age—he said he trusted perfectly that—they would become urgent, including nocturnal emergencies, even because experience is extremely important. So I ask a simple question: when are doctors over 55 actually going to do the night emergencies? Madam Member, let's talk now about primary health care. As we know, within the primary health care organization we have the USF (family health units) of ModelA and Model B and we have the UCSP (custom health care units). in the time of previous governments, in order to improve the effectiveness, efficiency and quality of the service, goals and objectives were created. in the case of USF, there are also incentives that vary between Model A and Model B. This is a service that has operated experimentally, but that has worked, and that currently has differences in treatment, with which doctors care, as well as with the different subsidies. So I ask: what do you plan to do about this? You do not come to say now that the PSD government has done nothing about this, because at the moment what I am interested in is the future and it is enough that you have forgotten many things that have been done in the past,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u9	... especially when the price of medicines was lowered, when there was greater care for mental patients, when there was bed opening in continuous care, when there were more doctors in the services. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, in the quite negative portrait that the honourable Member has done, she has forgotten the work that has been carried out. The work was not as positive as we would like, because unfortunately we inherited a country in the situation in which you left it. I do not want you to try to ruin this country again in the future, I do not want you to promise us roses and then give us thorns. Therefore, Mrs. Member, I await your answers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u10	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto. Then Mrs Luísa Salgueiro will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u11	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start by renewing my congratulations to the Minister and his team last week in the Commission and renewing here the guarantee of our good institutional cooperation. I would also like to thank the Socialist Party for bringing the debate on a subject which is particularly expensive to the CDS and which is certainly relevant to all Portuguese people. For the CDS, in this area of health, there are some aspects that are central and that I would like to begin by underlining. Of course, I would like to stress the intrinsic value of the National Health Service as a central vector of social cohesion, which urgently needs to have its sustainability assured while ensuring access to health care and as a guarantor of the social state. I don't think that's what happened in relatively near times. Another point I would like to highlight is the importance of citizens' access to health care, precisely for the guarantee of this social state and at the same time the importance of the contribution of other partners, without any kind of ideological prejudice, as we have already ensured in the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u13	I refer to the partners of the social sector and the private sector, as added value for the proper functioning of the health system, that system that you are the Minister ; and not of the National Health Service in particular, but certainly of the whole health system.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u15	On the other hand, I would also like to stress the importance of a serious and objective debate for us, without hasty judgments, without simplistic or vague statements, debate, that, favoring the credibility of the National Health Service and the human resources that work in it. Finally, but no less important, before asking you questions, I would like to highlight our recognition of the valuable and unequivocal contribution of human resources to health, both in the SNS and in other areas of health, as crucial and essential elements for reforms and improvements in the health system. Having said this, and assuming that there have always been problems that the CDS did not deny that they will continue to exist, that there are problems in the National Health Service today, even if many want to deny it, we would like to corroborate that, in fact, for us, health has no price, but it has costs. To say otherwise would be pure demagogy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u17	To govern in this area in a responsible way is to make choices, knowing that needs are growing and, as Mr Minister, indeed, you have had the opportunity to say, resources are finite. So, as we have said, having been endorsed in the Commission by the Minister, it is not throwing money on the problems that they solve. This debate is crucial today, because we need clarification and not good intentions and vague ideas. in this measure, Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, I address you, asking you simple questions, hoping to get as direct answers as possible. The honourable Member spoke of the framework, but forgot to add a brutal indebtedness—of which we left in 2011—which compromised the sustainability of the National Health Service, with gross cuts, determined by the previous Socialist Government in 2010/2011, which were the greatest that ever existed in the National Health Service. in this measure, making a correct framework, I liked clear answers to my questions. Is it not true that in 2014 there was a growth of 5% of the users of primary health care medical consultations and 6% in the first hospital consultations? We're talking about access to health care, Mrs. Deputy. Is it not true that today we have more than 600 000 users with a family doctor than we had in 2011? Is or is it not true that vaccination for influenza for more than 65 years has become free? We are talking about the good expenditure Mr. Minister has also referred to in order to protect more vulnerable patients in the SNS. Is it true or not, in the same line, that the Health Line 24 was created to support the elderly? Is it true that incentives have been created for the mobility of health professionals? Is it true that there has been an unprecedented fight against fraud, with clear savings in the National Health Service? Is it not true that the average selling price to the public of medicinal products was reduced by 27 % and that the price of generic medicinal products was reduced by 53 %, with clear savings to the drug sector with more than 310 million euros saved to the population? Mrs Salgueiro thanked you for your clear answers, because it is indeed the good of the transparency that these debates have to take place. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u18	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. I will try to be very quick, in the face of the difficulty of managing the time we have in this thematic debate, given the many interventions that we have pending. Mr Fatima Ramos, I thank you very much for your questions. With all due respect, which is very much to believe, I understand them only because the honourable Member is new and certainly has not been paying close attention to politics in recent years. [[PSD protests.]] The honourable Member asked whether we are prepared to move forward at 35 hours a week, when on Friday we adopted a set of diplomas, including the Socialist Party's initiative to apply 35 hours a week to all professionals, thus releasing the 40-hour professionals to whom they were not paid or paid. With regard to primary health care, Mrs. Member, it was regrettable that we had been waiting so long for the ARS to approve the applications of the pending family health units. The previous government opened two during the first half and after the election campaign period it opened a few more running. The truth is that family health units are pending and could give more answers and respond to much more citizens. And don't forget, Mrs. Member, that your commitment, at the beginning of the legislature in which they were government, was to give a doctor to all Portuguese. This was to be accomplished and the family health units as well. The most obvious note, I think, about the lack of monitoring of matters is when the honourable Member refers to mental health, because, as you know, the only thing the National Mental Health Plan that has been approved was to close institutions without leaving any alternative to patients who have been left with no response. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Unfortunately, mental patients were the ones who suffered the most in your time. Mrs Galriza Neto — with whom, on the contrary, I have already had many debates on this subject — I would like to say that much of the answers to the questions she has asked me were in the report which she presented to the Parliamentary Health Committee today and which concerns the General State Account. in this document, the honourable Member may verify that independent entities make a different assessment of the accounts and the results of the last government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u20	I haven't read everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u21	And the most obvious result is that, over the years, Portuguese health has become worse. There is no argument in this regard that they can invoke to deny it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u22	That's not what's there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u23	I conclude by saying that during the afternoon, during the debate, surely we will have plenty of time to clarify other matters of detail, under the pity of my colleagues, they do not have time to intervene. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u24	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Health, Adalberto Campos Fernandes, who I take advantage of to greet, as well as your entire team.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent years, the National Health Service has been exposed to a very adverse context that has greatly compromised its development and its ability to respond. The restriction determined by the external adjustment resulted in a missed opportunity. The objectives of structural reform have often been sacrificed only and only to financial compression, to a large extent conjunctural and largely supported in reducing wages and cutting wages. We can say that the time of transformation and the time of change has been lost. The indispensable reform of hospitals was to be done, at the same time as the responses of proximity decreased and the indispensable bet on primary health care. The National Health Service has become more unequal, more distant from people, in a context of impoverishment, with inexorable effect on the health status of the most vulnerable. More than ever, the Portuguese feel the need for a different health policy, which will be able to focus their priorities on the needs of citizens. The XXI Constitutional Government defined as a priority line of health policy the recovery of Portuguese confidence in the National Health Service. This will be, throughout the entire legislature, a plan that we will pursue with great energy in order to refocus, very clearly, the political action in the processes of reform and modernisation of the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is natural and it is obvious that global system governance needs to be improved. We never denied it and never said it was all done or everything to do. But it is necessary to take into account the generation of health gains and the most appropriate update of available resources. It is urgent to provide the SNS with adequate capacity to respond quickly and effectively to the needs of people through public policies focused on proximity, equity and the reduction of inequalities in access. Therefore, it is urgent to promote the articulation between the different levels of care, strengthening its specific intervention capacity. It is essential to give a new impetus to the reform of primary health care, creating more family health units, while at the same time implementing the unacceptable changes in hospital health care and strengthening integrated care. The SNS should have as a new centrality primary health care, contrary to the trend of many years of hospital-centrism that has been prevalent. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will have to gradually replace the resource, often without an alternative for citizens, to hospital emergencies by solutions of proximity, focused on the individual and the family, able to ensure a continuous response throughout the life cycle. Most primary health care will contribute decisively to re-qualify access, through a better articulation with other levels of delivery, simplifying people's lives, facilitating and improving the level and response. A new impetus in the reform of primary health care is also due to the increase in its resolution, providing this level of care for new valences, which are an example of oral health and visual health. At hospital level, we will bet on improving intermediate management and more adequate human resources planning, reforming the current model of internal management organization, with a particular focus on autonomy, accountability, and the application of performance-related stimuli. in this sense, we will also launch this year the creation of centers of responsibility integrated in hospitals, with a view not only to improving the response to social assistance but also the clinical effectiveness and, above all, the motivation of the teams. In view of the sensitive demographic change and mobility patterns, we will attach primary importance to the support of dependent people through a new impetus in continuing care, seeking the integration of responses with social action networks, also dynamicing the relevant role of informal caregivers. We will do everything we can to ensure that health policy can contribute to the creation of an environment conducive to active and healthy ageing. We will also pay particular attention to mental health and to integrated pediatric care, areas that need to develop and dynamize appropriately. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want a National Health Service re-qualified, modern and efficient. in this sense, we will adopt new contractualization models, generators of technical and scientific value, thus enabling the retention of the best professionals and opposing the tendency, so negative in recent years, to devalue human capital. We will progressively introduce the free access and free movement of citizens within the National Health Service, dynamicing the competition for quality by public institutions; we will implement a different relationship at the level of care, through a new model of application of moderate rates, making them more adjusted to their purpose and preventing them from continuing to be what they have become, i.e., an instrument of economic barrier to access. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Also with regard to the transport of non-emergency patients, as stated in terms of political commitment, changes will be introduced to dematerialize the procedures associated with them and, at the same time, to reduce the direct burden on users, with due regard always to the combination between clinical condition and economic condition. at the level of the drug policy we will reconcile rigor and requirement in evaluation and monitoring, however, safeguarding the essential access to quality innovation. in this sense, we will support political action in commitments for sustainability and development, which will be signed with the different partners of the sector, based on strategic principles of access and sustainability, aiming at the rational use of the medicine. And we will do it in the first days of February. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the quality of governance should be based on accountability, rigour and transparency. The National Health Service must be at the service of the Portuguese. It is our duty to guarantee the right to information through easy and accessible mechanisms for the general public. in this sense, already on the next day of February 1 will be launched the new portal of the National Health Service in order to share all the information that the citizen has, ethically and legally, right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will be very demanding with the waiting times and with respect for the legal rights of access. But we will also be rigorous in the dissemination of information on the overall performance of the system, both at the level of care and at the economic and financial level of health outcomes. We will bet on process innovation to improve its efficiency. The Invoice Conference Centre will be converted into a control and monitoring centre of the National Health Service by next year, with a view to broadening its perimeter and improving the fight against waste and fraud. The Health Line 24 will also be transformed into an integrated contact centre, expanding its capacity for response and mediation in the services provided to the citizen. Finally, within the Simple programme, the electronic health record, which is indispensable for managing access with efficiency, equity and quality will be implemented within a maximum of one year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this House has often been shown that the National Health Service illustrates one of the most successful pages of our democracy. That is why we all have a special duty to defend and preserve. It is a duty of all those who believe, like us, in a modern, efficient, just and supportive state. for our part, we leave here the commitment that at no time will we escape the challenge of defending the National Health Service with ambition and sense of responsibility. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u26	To ask for clarification, 14 were registered. Members and the Bureau were informed that Mr Minister intends to respond in two groups of seven. You then have the floor to ask for clarifications from Mr Moisés Ferreira of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health, yes, the National Health Service is very important for social cohesion; yes, it is essential for fair and equal treatment among citizens; and yes, it has been brutally attacked in the last four years, becoming weakened and losing much of what was created. We have recently heard the PSD and the CDS talk about other issues, in general, but about health, in particular, they seem to be affected by a mix of denial and very selective amnesia, because hearing the PSD and CDS are concerned about the fact that there may be users who will be pushed to the private, concerned that there may be a deterioration in the provision of health care is really who is denying the last four years. So perhaps, to discuss what is real and that is what we have today, we should see what was the last four years of the PSD and CDS. In December 2012, a news: « Portugal has a number of hospital beds below the recommended bed » ; in March 2013, another news: « There are no beds, doctors and nurses in the continuing care network » ; in April 2013, another news: « Patients complain about the lack of oncological medicines » ; a year later in 2014 : « Medicinal products for chemotherapy lacking in Portuguese hospitals; in May 2014 : « Basic emergencies broken down by lack of professionals » ; in October 2014 : « More than 200 medicines are missing in hospitals and pharmacies » ; in June 2015 : « Access to complicated emergencies and hospitalization blocked in some hospitals » ; in June 2015 : « Doctors denounce lack of materials and pressure to spend less on patients » ; still in June 2015 : « In Portugal there are no nurses, doctors are poorly distributed and fees away from users ». That's how the PSD and CDS left the National Health Service and this is where we left to rebuild it. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Mr. Minister, the PSD and the CDS left many hospitals on the brink of ruin and that had to do with the lack of professionals, with the escape of professionals. The question I leave you with is this: what measures to fix these professionals in hospitals of the National Health Service? What measures are needed to address the chronic lack of specialists in certain regions? At the level of continued care there is a chronic and screaming lack of beds in this country and there is a total lack of public response. Question: What measures are there for Portugal to have a public response in continuing care for all people who need it? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u28	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Minister of Health, the four years of PSD / CDS-PP governance were very negative for SNS in all areas and health professionals were those who suffered a lot with the policy and ideological options of the PSD and CDS. The attack on health professionals was caused by the withdrawal of rights: cuts in hours of quality, cuts in wages, freezing of careers and progressions, by the non-contracting of professionals in need, and also, Minister, by the use of precariousness and instability of links. During the PSD / CDS governance, the Ministry lost nearly 7500 workers, and many went out of the SNS temporarily. From 2011 to 2014, data from the balance sheet of the Ministry of Health, 2194 nurses, 342 diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, 1863 technical assistants, 3463 operational assistants and it is estimated that, between 2010 and October 2015, more than 3100 SNS physicians were discharged by retirement,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u30	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u31	...of which more than 900 seniors and almost 2000 graduate assistants. If, of the exits, 1600 are general and family medicine doctors, the early exit of senior and graduate physicians has irreparable consequences in the SNS and is not compensated with the entry of young doctors. This reduction of professionals and their non-replacement forced those who were left to a higher workload. We have not often heard here — and we have denounced it — many nurses and operational assistants who were forced to do two consecutive shifts, because there were no professionals to replace them. This non-replacement put both professionals and their own users at risk and also led, as we have often denounced, to the failure to perform acts that would be very important to the patients. Together with this picture, Minister, we cannot fail to mention the immigration of health professionals, because here they have found no opportunities or decent employment, as is the case with nurses, and the Order estimates that since 2012 3000 nurses have been released each year. Still about emigration, we cannot speculate what the data show, i.e. that 65% of the internal doctors aspire to leave the country, because they say that they have no conditions for work here. And on young doctors, Mr Minister, it is important that specialized training be valued, it is important that the conditions be created for all young doctors to have access to specialized training. We cannot allow the category of non-differentiated doctors, cheap labour and duty-free professionals to return to Portugal. Mr Minister, without valued and motivated health professionals it is not possible to guarantee the provision of quality and safety health care to users. It is necessary to block this path of SNS definition and to equip it with motivated professionals, socially valued and professionally. We need to hire the missing professionals. Measures must be taken to ensure that professionals do not leave the SNS in advance. Does the Minister agree that only in this way will we be able to strengthen the provision of quality health care in the National Health Service? [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u32	To request clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health, we know that the previous Government of the PSD / CDS has not recently transformed the Ministry of Health into a State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Well, you tried! Well, you tried! It was four years with blind cuts in an area as sensitive as the health area, four years closing health services throughout the country, four years pushing the health costs for users and finally four years with a government that did not hide its concerns with the interests of the private sector in the area of health, including the privatization/ concession of public management hospitals. They were four years of clearly indistinguishable and inseparable guidance from the ideological line that accompanied the right, or that the right brought to the shoulders, that called into question access to health care by the users of the National Health Service and that had not only short repercussions but also, as it is being found, medium and long-term. The portrait is absolutely scary! Let us remember what previous government Health Minister PSD/CDS said when referring to closures and cuts in health: that the government closed health services to improve Portuguese access to health services. For now we are seeing how much improved access to health with the PSD/CDS government! What is happening at the level of access to health care is a shame! The scenario is devastating! And we didn't just mention what happened last winter, with chaos installed in the emergencies and with people to die while they were waiting to be cared for; we refer to everything else. And all the rest is the postponement of consultations and surgeries, it is the rupture in emergency services, it is the decrease in the number of beds, forcing many of the patients to spend days and nights hospitalized in hospital corridors, and it is the widespread and obvious shortage, especially of human means and not only in the National Health Service, in hospitals and primary health care units. Everything makes it difficult for Portuguese to access health care. But it is still necessary to mention the breakdown of income that the previous government imposed on families, while at the same time inflationing, and much, the value of moderate rates and which also aggravated the situation. In view of this picture, there is indeed much to be done in order to be able to revive the National Health Service and, at the very least, to restore the National Health Service to levels prior to the passage of the PSD and the CDS by the Government. There's a lot of work ahead of you! Mr Minister, the Government of the Socialist Party programme establishes, among other priority measures, the elimination of moderate emergency rates whenever the user is referred to and the overall reduction of the values of moderate rates. There is therefore a set of measures to exempt, dispensate and reduce the value of moderate rates that the Government has taken as priority in the area of health. We know that the Government has already taken or is proceeding with the analysis of the potential impacts resulting from the legislative changes in the moderate rates, but I would still like you to tell us whether the reduction in the overall value of moderate rates and the increase in accessibility to the most vulnerable users, allowing proper reference, will already be reflected at the level of the State budget for 2016. Mr Minister, in conclusion, I would like you to tell us that you are reflecting that the expansion and improvement of the primary health care network, increasing the accessibility of users, their centrality but also confidence in the National Health Service, and also the strengthening of proximity care in the area of oral and visual health, which, in fact, the Minister referred to in the initial intervention, will have in the State Budget for 2016, because these were also subjects that contained the Government Programme and that had a certain priority nature. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u34	Mr Miguel Santos, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, first of all, welcome, Minister of Health, to the Plenary, in what is your first participation here. However, their participation in health issues does not begin today. For the past four years in particular, Mr Minister has always been a political agent, with various declarations of appreciation of the evolution of the SNS and the health system, and, in this perspective, has often adhered to the the thesis of cuts and dismantling, with which we do not agree. Now Mr. Minister is facing a different scenario. It is faced with the responsibility to make decisions and, in this perspective, also to understand the limitations, something that it did in its intervention. In fact, it had already done so in the Health Committee last week when, in a very careful way, it spoke in 'financial compression' and 'lost opportunity'. Therefore, he used a much more cautious language than the one that characterized his interventions in the last four years. however, there is a basic problem here, Minister. In order to prove the theory of cuts and dismantlings, Mr.Minister first needs to realize that spending on health in the last four years was, year after year, of the greatest that there is memory and that history tells us in the National Health Service. This means that the budget to be reached in this House will have to be substantially higher than the 2015 health expenditure, which was EUR 9054 million. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u36	If that is not the case, Minister, all the the thesis that you have also defended falls to the ground. There is also another circumstance that the Minister will have to resolve or, if he does not want to resolve, he will have to explain and that it comes from the very heart of his team — and I am referring to Mr Manuel Delgado State Secretary. It is because, now, Mr. Secretary of State was not born today for health, that already existed. I would like to recall Mr. Secretary of State's most recent statements to the Journal Nurse, who, among other things, says: "things" in the National Health Service "are well", so there is no reason to alarm. But there is more, Mr. Minister, and this is more important: Mr. Secretary of State, who was in front of the company called IASIST, who evaluated the clinical performance of SNS hospitals in 2008, 2013 and 2014, has a direct responsibility in this final report that was presented in November 2015. Mr Minister in the Commission drew my attention to the fact that I am reading a few loose sentences of this report, but Mr Minister, we are coming to the conclusions of this report. The current Secretary of State, two months ago, signed a report stating in particular the following: « it is significantly up to outpatient activity, in external consultation and outpatient surgery ». in point 3 of this report, it is said that ‘There is(...)’ — see there! — « an effective increase in beds, with greater balance in its distribution». How many times have we heard the opposition here — now in the government — all these parties saying that there had been an effective reduction in the number of beds! Is that what you're talking about? in point 8, the following can be read : « clinical quality has evolved very positively between 2008 and 2013, with mortality rates, complications and risk-adjusted readmissions(... ), to present progress that puts them at the desired levels. In 2014, these good results are confirmed ». It also says that the human resources—which have already been appointed here—of the SNS hospitals increased between 2008 and 2014 in both numbers of doctors and nurses. As regards mental health — as mentioned by Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, of the Socialist Party, who has been in the House for many years — I must say that the conclusions of the report contradict this because point 10 of the report states that « admissions programmed in mental health have increased significantly, which is synonymous with greater capacity for early intervention and more opportunity and adequacy in the processes of hospitalization of these patients ». Mr Minister, your Secretary of State, at least two months ago, seems to have had a quite different view! last week, the Minister made a statement that left us quite alarmed. The Minister stated in the Commission that he intended to cut EUR 48 million in urgency, but did not explain how he would do so. It is true that during this week we have withdrawn ourselves, we have not made any public statements regarding your statement. We have been waiting for today for Mr Minister here to explain where he will cut 48 million euros in urgency, because this statement has been made. So, Minister, say here if you're going to cut off on the scales, on the shifts, on the number of doctors, on the number of nurses, if you're going to close up emergencies, because a 48 million euro cut-off statement has to have some basis, right? I believe that the Minister today will be better prepared than he would have been last week and will therefore be able to give us an answer. Better preparation must also be enough to explain to us what the 35 hour budget impact is on the National Health Service. Because, if you reduce from 40 to 35 hours, Mr Minister, or it is the additional work that increases or you have to hire more staff. Some explanation has to be. The Minister must have planned and must now know, within the various possible scenarios, what impact this measure has in order to be able to prepare properly for it. I remind you of the agreement with the medical union, which provides for 40 hours. How will the 40-hour agreement be compatible with the 35-hour schedule? Are you going to denounce the agreement or are you going to do a new negotiation? Minister, what do you have to tell us about wage updates? It's because it's starting to be a pretty big cake to manage. It's 35 hours, it's salary update...! You know, today—why didn't you know last week—what is the impact of wage updates on the SNS and how will you deal with this? Finally, the Minister announced the construction of three new hospitals: the one in Eastern Lisbon, the one in Six and the one in Évora. Mr Minister, in order to be credible in this announcement, he agreed to tell us today what the schedule is, where he is going to seek funding, what is the management model, what is the size of hospitals, the number of beds and the number of specialties and also what was the criterion for having left the construction of the new hospital in Barcelos outside. And for now, we're around here, Minister. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u37	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u38	Mr President, Minister of Health, I begin by telling you that we agree with many of the ideas you have expressed from the rostrum. It will do us justice to recognize that they are not original and that some of them are in practice, have already been implemented. We need to be strict.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u40	I said here, and the Minister also said it, since it was one of the assumptions of my previous intervention that it is necessary not to undermine the confidence that the Portuguese have in the SNS. We'll always repeat it. It would then also be appropriate to clarify that, in the User Satisfaction Study, done last year, what we had was that 91% of the population living in Portugal felt well cared for by professionals and considered itself satisfied with the National Health Service. Therefore, in terms of satisfaction about the provision in the National Health Service, I believe that the 2015 numbers are not in any way to set aside and reveal what the Portuguese already thought about the National Health Service. Another point has to do with how we received the National Health Service, what happened at the end of 2015 and that is today the legacy of this ministerial team. Yesterday, data disclosed by the Directorate-General for Budget indicated that the value of late payments had to be compared with the EUR 1831 million, which existed late in December 2001, with the EUR 455 million, which existed in December 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u41	Well remembered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u42	I think the truth of facts and difference is brutal. at the same time, the value of the SNS account deficit, which now incorporates the EPE hospital accounts, is today EUR 259, EUR 4 million, compared with about EUR 700 million in December 2011. I do not know what Mr de The Greens, Mr Minister and the banks that support his government, so I ask: is it wrong to pay debts to ensure the sustainability of the SNS and with this the social cohesion and access of the Portuguese to the National Health Service? I'd like you to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u44	But, as I said, you need clarification. Clarifications about what you will do to restore 35 hours and what will be the bill about the provision in the National Health Service. However, of course, I could not fail to ask you, Minister, what you will do in the context of ongoing care — a reform which the Constitutional Court, at the time of the Socialist Government, recommended more caution in order to assess the cost-benefit and to consider how well you spend on this matter — with the palliative care network, which was adopted here by consensus. This is a priority area for Portuguese, it is a priority area for the CDS. We would like to know whether Mr. Minister is preparing to put this national network of palliative care in the drawer or whether he actually meets the dignity of people with diseases that are not cured, who are in a situation of end-of-life, the suffering of these people and their families, and whether the operation of this network is possible and how. He's already referred here to pediatric palliative care.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u45	Mrs. Member, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u46	I will finish, Mr. President. We would like you to answer this and other matters. In conclusion, I would like to ask you about Simplex in health. We need not vague ideas, but concrete ones, to tell us what's going to happen, how much it's gonna cost. It is clarification that we need, Minister, and we were grateful for you to do so. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u47	To request clarification, Mrs Eurídice Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister of Health, my question is very concrete and is the following: we all know of financial constraints, they are a reality, they exist; however, the country does not stop. We also know that the government has set a priority: there is a first front of attack, so let us say, in the sense of wage replacement of families, the replacement of the normal financial life of families and also turn to the social resources that have been cut over the past four years, We are also aware of the steps taken by the previous Government in the area of health, particularly by the non-criteria options. This was, in my view, the fundamental basis of the problems. We are also aware that the Government has interrupted the procedure with a view to the construction of the Sixal hospital, which has already been mentioned here today for the Minister to speak. In fact, about this hospital were already protocoled intentions, guidance, between the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Vale do Tejo and the municipality concerned. We know, however, that the previous government said — and said it in good and public terms — that there was no need for this hospital. Here we come from the sphere of the financial issue to move on to the sphere of the political option. The creation of the Sixal hospital, in our understanding, appears to be a priority investment in terms of health equipment, but also in providing priority health care. We know that Mr President has already made it public, in the essence of our view, and therefore it is not a question of political will here. Now there is an essential question: what conditions do the Government and the Ministry have in order to recover this file, and when? That is, when are we going to see "the light at the bottom of the tunnel" at Seixal's hospital? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u49	Mr Jorge Falcato Simões has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u50	Mr President, Minister of Health, the previous government, always with extreme effectiveness to complicate what was simple and, on the way, to reduce some costs, made a change to the system of allocation of support products, forcing disabled people to train applications for funding, which includes, for example, obtaining three budgets to have access to current consumer products, such as diapers, algaes, catheters, etc. which, before these « brilliant» changes, were provided in health centres. To force people who received these products at the health centre, near their home, to travel to the district center of social security, often tens of miles away from their residence, with the costs of them, to start a process that, above all, takes, often months to be dispatched, is a nonsense. Force people to walk through this calvary to have products that are essential for their daily lives does not fit in anyone's head, unless at all costs anyone wants to reduce the fabulous deficit, making life more difficult for people, leading them to disregard their rights. My question is very simple, but very important for the quality of life of these people: will this end? Will these and other support products, of current consumption, which appear on the approved list, be supplied directly by health centres? Another of the ill-treatment of the previous government — one that has to end — concerns the non-emergency transport of patients. The costs, again speaking louder, led the former Government to restrict the financing of non-emergency transport. You only have the right to transport anyone who proves that you are in a situation of economic insufficiency. They have forgotten, or perhaps not, and it has only been the result of Excel leaf, that people with disabilities, particularly motors, cannot use collective transport, which means they have to choose to transport by taxi or by ambulance, with very high costs. It is appropriate to say that if people are not in a situation of economic insufficiency, but they need to go to consultations or treatments, they will soon be in that situation. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u51	We are pleased to hear that there will be new rules, because what has resulted from these changes in the financing of transport is that many people have stopped attending the consultations that they should and have not made the treatments they needed, jeopardizing their health. Mr. Minister of Health, the condition of resources, in these cases, is completely unfair. Will she finish? Will the condition of those who have no alternative of transport be valued, who cannot even enter existing public transport? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u52	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of Health, to whom I call the attention that he has only 5 minutes, but then he will have even more seven requests for clarification to which he will have to answer, so he decided to save some time. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u53	Mr President, I will try to be efficient in the use of time. Mr Moisés Ferreira raised the issue of the rupture of hospitals and the chronic lack of means, not only referring to the operational issue, but also to investment, which has been, as you know, heavily compressed in recent years. On this point, I would like to say that we do not share the fundamentalist idea that there is only one reading of budgetary responsibility and rigour, that is, there is only one reading for good expenditure and for bad expenditure, which is a different reading for different choices is necessarily a spending option, what is a budget share and a strict reading of expenditure is a demanding and responsible reading. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u54	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u55	Now, I think it will be time to understand one thing: on the same category of expenditure it is possible to have a different interpretation. And we are not going to fall into temptation, which will be, in my view, in advance recurring, that everything that is to choose differently, even if with a little different budget, is a bad policy and it is not to take into account the interests of people. Mrs Carla Cruz, I can no longer agree with you. Who does not realize that the National Health Service, in its nearly 40 years, was made by professionals, who built it, based on models of solid and progressive technical careers and professionals, does not realize anything about what the National Health Service is. And it is clear that this is not just a budgetary issue, it is a question of sound competences, of recognizing that competent doctors, competent nurses and competent technicians do, yes, a National Quality Health Service, able to serve strictly the interests of the citizens. On this I will tell you that we are very attentive to all aspects, we are, of course, working with professional orders and also with the unions in everything that can be done, on behalf of a budgetary stability that is imperative and, let us say, incomprehensible, within the framework of the limitations we have, to give a new impetus to the development of careers. Mr José Luís Ferreira spoke on the question of the closure of services and of the 'purchase' outside. Well, we've already evaluated — and we'll go back to it — the one that was the performance of the SNS, based on the studies we like to report or comment on. In fact, today I even bring here a very important study that went out in the Newspaper and in the Public. But I wanted to tell you that, indeed, one of the most negative consequences of the last four years was to push out of the health system a large number of Portuguese people, who have seen access to normal conditions of use and have been forced to use another system of care, particularly in the private sector. In fact, I have very little time, but I would not like to leave without a reply the multiple interventions that Mr Miguel Santos of the PSD has made, thanking him for the attention and care he reads my statements, especially those he has given over the past four years. There is one thing that you will give me: you do not hear me say anything different about what I have written about this during this period. I am therefore pleased with this type of reading, which I think is useful, and I would also like to read a few things published by the honourable Member, so I will do so with all my interest. [[PS's laughter and applause.]] On the issue of cuts, Mr President, you have a set in the budget line. Of course! We may have more, we may have less, we may have much, or we may have little. Mr. Deputies, but can't we choose differently? Oh, my God! Can we not, in fact, make more primary care with the same budget or even a marginally superior budget? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u56	Of course we can!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u57	Can't we make more integrated continuous care? Oh, my God! Can't we take care of the issue of technical aid, referred to here by the Left Block Member? Oh, my God! Can we not have a more humane and closer view of people and, let us say, more budgetary, saying that, in fact, budgetary control and the rigour of public accounts, for us, is it a state imperative? Oh, my God! Mr President, I believe that, as long as we have the opportunity to dialogue, it will certainly come to the conclusion that it is possible. But I would also like to say to you, Mr President, that, on the subject of studies — we have indeed had a rather lively exchange of impressions in the Health Committee — we have certainly read today's study. Today's study says that Portugal, in the last year, has fallen seven places in the ranking. Of course, Mr President, and I also told you in the Health Committee that I do not give particular importance to studies alone, because the studies are a concrete picture of a reality that is dynamic and that has multi-possibilities to be observed. But it is also worth reading and seeing what the conclusions of this study are. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Well, you said one thing that is not really true, or then you misread me, but if you have the opportunity, you can hear the recording. I did not say that I was going to cut 48 million euros in the urgency, Mr. What I said was that an example of intelligent choices is to create conditions for Portuguese to make less use of hospital emergencies and, if we reduced access to hospital emergencies by 10 %, we could free about 48 million euros, which would allow us to invest in responses of proximity. This is said, Mr, and we will do everything we can to achieve it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u59	Finally, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, I want to tell you that yes, we will implement the palliative care network. We believe that this is an important aspect and is an obligation for these patients who suffer and need to be cared for in good condition. The honourable Member spoke in budgetary implementation and wanted to tell you that the previous government, at the beginning of last year, when it presented the Budget, promised to close the year with a balance of less than EUR 30 million. You have closed with less than EUR 260 million, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u60	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u61	But I would also like to tell you, in favour of truth and rigour, that there is no void in promises or commitments, in fact, the concrete statement that transparency begins on Monday and the electronic health record will be made within a maximum of one year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u62	Mr Minister of Health, you have already received more than 2 minutes from the Socialist Party's bench, but still in order to be able to respond to seven requests for clarification which will still be addressed to you, it does not seem to me that the time available — 1 minute and 10 seconds — is very wide. But let us then enter the second round of requests for clarification, for which Mr Ramos has the floor, firstly, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health, in Portugal, the health indicators that, for years, have prided us and placed our country alongside the most developed in the world, when not above, much is due to the widespread improvement of the living conditions of the populations, to the work of the democratic local power, but above all, to the National Health Service out of the April Revolution. Primary health care has played a key role in the achievement of these indicators. The bet on a network of proximity and work focused on disease prevention and on health promotion was the maximum exponent of this model. Unfortunately, this was not the political option of successive governments, which, instead of deepening the proximity character and trapping primary care with more human, financial and technical means, opted for the closure of proximity services, emergencies, permanent care, health extensions, medical posts, while reducing professionals, teams, valences and times. It is no wonder that part of the SNS focus is today focused on hospital emergencies, where patients are looking for responses they do not find elsewhere. Statistics show that the number of health extensions in 2011 was half what existed in the 1980s, in the 20th century. The explanation for this will not be disconnected from the health marketing process. Between 2002 and 2013 there was an increase in hospitals, especially private. in the same period, emergency services in private services doubled and the number of beds in private hospitals increased. in these 11 years, the number of external consultations in private hospitals tripled. This privatization trend also reached primary health care through model C of the family health units ( USF ). Primary health care is lacking for all professionals, as well illustrated by more than 1 million Portuguese without a family doctor. Personalized health care units do not have the same operating conditions assigned to the USF. The serious wager in primary health care is first of all to ensure the human, technical and financial resources necessary for the functioning of the services, to ensure the physician and the family nurse to all users, for greater and more effective linkage with the reference hospitals, to ensure to the personalized health care units the conditions necessary to provide quality and timely care, to fulfil the commitments assumed with the USF and to revoke model C. Investment in primary health care is future savings in secondary care and rehabilitation, so it is an investment that, now assumed, will represent better health for users and more efficient management of SNS resources in the future. Mr Minister, do you not agree that primary health care needs this appreciation, strengthening them as a basis for the entire National Health Service? [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u64	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of Health, a very quick and concise question in view of what Mr Minister has just said. It has just been reported that the final balance in 2015 was less than 200 million. My question is very simple, Minister : have all the credit notes of the industry been received? I appreciate your reply. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u66	With regard to those who are the three-phase positions of the various parties that support the government and what has been transposed into your Government Programme, Minister, we would like to say that we find that there is an absolute lack of strategic vision, there is a summary of joint positions, sometimes bilateral, sometimes not that, but there is always, yes, an ideological agenda. [[BE's protests.]] And, in the midst of this amass of ideas, omissions and generalities, without ever quantifying numbers, which is what bothers us the most, we have heard Mr. Prime Minister make genuine statements, but sometimes overwhelmingly, of friendship with the Left Block and the CFP — the Greens Ecological Party has forgotten a little, certainly for some reason — even claiming that it will not propose anything that the CFP does not support. The rule is almost always the same: more expenditure, less revenue. Let us then see how they will make such a difference, how they will'make a difference', as Mr President says. But, in particular with regard to health policies, one of the strategies followed by the PSD/CDS Government, Minister, in the previous Parliament, and we talked about it in the Commission last week is the municipalization of health care, and this was an example of the adoption of Decree-Law No 30 / 2015 of 12 February. We have found that, both in the electoral programme and now in the GOPs, the Great Plan Options, the PS — and the Minister has already referred to this in the Commission — committed himself to promoting the transfer of competences to municipalities in infrastructure and equipment management matters. Although we understand that this is a good measure, and indeed we agree with this important decentralization, what we cannot understand is how Mr. Minister will coordinate this programme with the CFP and the Left Block programmes. The CFP says it rejects the municipalization of health because it integrates into a state configuration strategy, its deresponsibility in guaranteeing the constitutional right to health, and to constitute—of course, it is! — a step in the privatisation process. The Left Block, on the other hand, says that it is a false decentralisation, because it delegates competences, through inter-administrative contracts, to privates, in particular to IPSS and Mercy, to the client network referred to in the Block. Therefore, Mr Minister, in this dimension of proximity to the people, which we believe to be absolutely crucial, I ask you: how will this public policy actually come into being by applying it on the ground, as we, the PSD Government / CDS, are actually doing with people? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u67	Mr António Sales has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, government members are opening up a new time in health in Portugal. A cycle marked by equity, responsibility, sustainability and social justice. A cycle that is intended to countercycle with four years of austerity, which marked the social determinants. Poorer citizens, weaker patients in more difficult conditions of treatment, above all discontent and demotiveization in users and health professionals. The strong de-investment that, without criteria, was applied in the health sector generated a deep retrogress in the critical improvement of the system. But now, sirs. Members, a new time opens up, a time of confidence and recovery in the SNS, time to gain efficiency and quality, avoid waste, cut in fats, but never reach the muscle of the system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u69	The first task of a modern state, in such complex Administration, will be to realize that, above the ideological matrix, it will have to rule the social matrix, the approach to people, the clear separation of water cannot be asked to the private sector to behave as the public, when its goal is profit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u70	It's not profit, it's efficiency!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u71	... as the public sector cannot be asked to harass the private sector, when the complementary intervention of the private sector, duly designed and regulated, contributes to broadening the coverage and releasing public funds. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u72	This is the task of the current government: to rebuild its human capital, its performance being a test of political determination of the defense of the social state, to recover the centrality of primary care (more family physicians for more Portuguese, extended schedules and specialized consultations in health centres), to strengthen the power of choice within the SNS, to create the Simplex of health and the registration of electronic health, to prevent chronic disease and to strengthen their epidemiological surveillance, to reorganize and improve emergency services, to share resources between hospitals, to strengthen networks between continued care, and to strengthen outpatient care. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] In short: more access, better health care and greater readiness. Mr Minister, let me take advantage of your newspaper news from today's daily press, made by an international entity, regarding the National Health Service, which fell to the 20th. the place in the international ranking, also to say that, in fact, some Members were careless about today's press and ask the following question: what measures will be taken to regain the confidence and motivation of health professionals, on the one hand, and the recovery of lost credit from users, on the other hand, and to reconcile the concerns of budgetary rigour with social sensitivity? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u73	Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u74	Mr President, Minister of Health, it does not fail to be extraordinary when some members of the Government hear here, in fact, to carpify sorrows, perhaps because they have not effectively destroyed the National Health Service. What we had for four years was one of the fundamental pillars of the democratic state, the National Health Service, almost destroyed! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u75	500 years ago Duarte Pacheco Pereira said that the experience is the mother of all things and, for her, we know the truth radically. And the truth is, for four years, you almost destroyed the National Health Service! Mr. Minister, in April 2013 the Government of then, PSD / CDS, decided to set up the Algarve Hospital Centre, merging three hospitals, Faro, Portimão and Lagos. at the time, the government said that there would be no closure of valences and services, but it stood to the contrary. The PSD/CDS government said that the establishment of this hospital would present more values, at the care level, of clinical, organizational and managerial quality and that it would implement a policy of better territorial equity. Only that the ideological attack of the previous majority, which almost destroyed the National Health Service and other services, has in fact left a tragic mark, which was indeed what happened to live in this Hospital Center: degradation and closure of services, lack of professionals and, even, much suffering in the long hours of waiting. I am sure that many people have died because they have not, in fact, had adequate and urgent assistance. I ask, Mr Minister, very specifically: will you reverse the Algarve Hospital Center? When will this Hospital Center effectively be extinguished? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u76	Mr Luís Graça has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u77	Mr President, Minister of Health, the PSD always presents us with loose accounts, loose leaves, loose numbers, as if oranges were always in bloom and perfume, but the problem is reality. [[PSD protests.]] The shock with reality is that it's the problem,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... why can't they answer a very simple question: at the end of four and a half years the National Health Service, the quality of the medicine practiced, despite the efforts of health professionals, improved? [[PSD protests.]] No, it didn't improve! Everyone is unanimous, indeed, the press today is obvious, in which it has not improved, for more numbers that can present here. The truth is that you promised that all Portuguese would have a family doctor and today we have more than 1, 2 million Portuguese without a family doctor. And the truth is that the increase in moderate rates also conditioned access to health centres and hospital services, especially the most fragile families, transforming the poorest into potentially more ill people. in the Algarve, the National Health Service was clearly crushed by the private offer, intentionally! So, Minister, I ask: what measures does the Government intend to take to restore the new quality in the Algarve and the National Health Service?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u78	To request clarification, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the disparity of care in Portuguese health centres due to the coexistence of two models of organization at primary health care level, was one of the concerns presented by OECD specialists, a report on health care made at the request of the Government of the former majority and presented in Lisbon last May. OECD experts recommended that Portuguese be treated in the same way in health centres, overcoming disparity – and the word is from the experts – between the family health units ( USF ) and the personalized health care units ( UCSP ). Those who know the functioning of primary health care know that this disparity is real for both users and professionals. Not being the model of the universally applied USF, even though wider, the problem will remain, unless, say OECD experts, establishes a date from which UCSPs are transformed into USF or, alternatively, extend some of the USF incentives to units that still work in the old molds. It is true, on the other hand, that the USF model hardly applies in small municipalities of great geographical dispersion, although this is not entirely impossible, but, based on the initiative of the professionals, in the lack of this, such disparity will always be maintained. Question: not being generalized, but only extended, the model of the USF, how does the Government feel to resolve the disparities in care mentioned by OECD experts? In a very short way, I would like to address the provision of hospital care in the Medium Tejo, where hospital care is provided by a center with three units: Torres Novas, Tomar and Abrantes. It is precisely here in Abrantes that the medical-surgical urgency is located in a building that many consider to be expired. I therefore ask Mr Minister : when will the building of the hospital of Abrantes be recovered? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u80	To answer that, I shall give the floor to Mr Health Minister, who is granted time by the PS Parliamentary Group, who is already accounted for in the electronic panel. In any case, I would ask the Minister to try to contain the answers in the time available. You have the floor, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u81	Mr President, I will try to contain my answers in the time available. Mr. João Ramos spoke about the question of the health team's responses. We will finish what is left to finish, which was the pilot experience of the family nurse, initiated by the previous government — except error, are the pilot experiences that are about to be completed and evaluated — and, of course, we will give great impetus to the figure of the family nurse so that the health team can fully respond to what is our strategic vision. And, Mrs. Angela War, we have a strategic vision for health. Interestingly, many of us have been engaged in studying it for many years! It is not triphasic, nor is it worse than yours, biphasic, it is indeed a strategic vision, in the sense that we have an idea for Portugal in what are effective, effective and oriented health policies for the interest of the citizen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Ángela Guerra, on the question of municipalization - and I am glad that these meetings are recorded, as happened last week in the Health Committee - what I said, and I repeat here, Mrs, Mrs, is that there is a virtuous relationship, of partnership, which has come from many years ago, and that has to do with issues such as buildings, infrastructure conservation, transport. But, Mrs. Member, nothing has to do with the municipalization of health care, nothing has to do with the transfer of human resources competences, especially doctors or nurses. And therefore, if that is what we are talking about, Mrs Deputies, I believe that we will understand, that is, we are totally against the idea of municipalizing health care at the level of human resources. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, and I apologize for not answering the question that you have put to me on the moderate rates, it is clear, Mr. Deputies, that we are going to honour our commitment, and we can do this by anticipating here that the average annual charge that the Portuguese will have on the moderate rates will be reduced by about 25%. It is a huge effort, in the context of the budgetary difficulty we are experiencing, but it is clearly a sign that we want to give, so that the moderate rates, as I said, are pedagogical and modeling and not a barrier to access. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The gentlemen. Deputies João Vasconcelos, of BE, and Luís Sales, of the PS, raised the issue of the Algarve. This is perhaps the worst example of what is a lack of strategic sense, an absolute deregulation in the public-private combination. Such an important territory for the country's economy, so important for social development, has not been able to attract professionals, especially doctors, in order to value public equipment. And at the moment, we are trying to make a very rigorous assessment of what is going on in the Algarve to understand whether or not the establishment of the hospital centre was an appropriate measure and adapted to local reality, which, of course, also goes through the ability to attract qualified human resources to the Algarve. Mrs Eurídice Pereira spoke of Sixal, just like Mr Miguel Santos recently. in Seixal, it is not just a new hospital, although with different characteristics, which has been studied since 2009. The Sixal hospital is a strategic opportunity to renew and reform the entire Setúbal district, the entire Setúbal peninsula, which has also been unbalanced for many years, because it has not taken into account what was the change in its demographic composition, particularly in the younger municipalities, and it is also an opportunity to alleviate the pre-rotation situation that lives today at Garcia de Orta Hospital and that has to be corrected with the greatest speed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u82	Attention to time, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u83	I'm done now, Mr. President. On the USF and UCSP, I must say that we also do not live well with the idea, and it is taking too long to have in the health system, in the primary care area, one country and two systems. It is wrong that there are Portuguese with access to quality care, the USF of quality and that, at the same time, at the same time, they have access to personalized care, where the conditions of care and even human resources are much more unfavourable. Our political commitment is to reach the end of the Legislature with as many open USFs as possible, working, and therefore with the ability to give the Portuguese a response that is fair, similar, at the level of primary health care. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u84	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor, which will necessarily have to be short due to the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members, this brief intervention also serves to put in this debate another issue which is of great concern to the CFP and which we want to specify: the accessibility of users to the National Health Service. in the last four years, PSD and CDS-PP policies, with the closure and concentration of services, with the brutal increase in moderate rates, the reduction in the allocation of transport of non-emergency patients, the shortage of professionals, the high waiting times for consultations, surgeries and treatments, were in fact an element that prevented and created obstacles to users access to health care. More than creating difficulties and preventing users from accessing health care have also introduced elements of inequality in this same access. Data from the National Institute of Statistics tell us that the financial difficulties of families were the main reason for the non-satisfaction of health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u86	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u87	I shall conclude, Mr President. We all know very well how much health expenditure in families is indeed enormous. In fact, Portugal is the country that stands out for the negative exactly by this indicator. As public investment decreased, health expenditure in families increased. Mr Minister, this is also a concern and one of the subjects that requires answers, which requires measures, because the right to health cannot be based on the economic and social conditions of families, it must be universal, as our Constitution states, and it is in this fight and with these assumptions that we will contribute and intervene. I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u88	Mrs Isura Pedro has signed up to request clarifications, but as Mrs Paula Santos no longer has time for the answer, it has no effect...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u89	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u90	Do you still wish to make the request for clarification?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u91	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u92	All right, keep the question up. You have the floor, Mrs. Isaura Pedro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u93	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, the CFP defends in its programme that there should be a reversal to the State of the management of hospitals in public-private partnership, as well as the integration of all hospitals-enterprise of the National Health Service into the administrative sector. Having regard to the positions of the Minister, who defends the public-private combination in order to seek synergies and cooperation between the two sectors and not competition between them, and the Government Programme, which proposes the evaluation of existing PPPs by independent entities...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u94	It is necessary to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u95	... and the introduction, if necessary, of corrective measures: how will the CFP make its positions compatible with those of the Government and with those of the Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u96	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate, we have entered the closing period, in which all parliamentary groups will intervene. Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The chaos in hospital emergencies in the winter of 2015, following excessive delays in patient care, has been mentioned here several times. In this regard, the Human Rights Observatory is now saying that the inefficiency of the services and the reduced response capacity they have shown during this period leads them to believe that the right to health, both of the patients who have died, and of the other patients who were waiting and who have suffered the same delays in their care and treatment, has been violated. Therefore, the right to health of these patients has been violated, which is not new to us, but is of greater importance, because it is the Human Rights Observatory that affirms it and not only the parties, such as The Greens, who have denounced it from the outset. On the other hand, a study by a Swedish organization that was released yesterday came to tell us that Portugal passed from 13. or to 20. in an international ranking that compares the performance of health systems in 35 countries. The most interesting thing is that the study concludes that health care in Europe has been improving, despite the financial crisis and austerity measures. But in the case of Portugal, which goes from 13. or to 20. , health did not improve, especially as a result of worse results in the chapter of accessibility to health care, especially in waiting times for specialist consultation and non-emergency surgeries. In view of the health policies of the previous PSD / CDS government, these figures and these conclusions cannot surprise us because, in fact, the cuts in the funding of the National Health Service, the closure of health services, the loss of doctors to the private sector and the absence of a contracting policy that could, in a way, respond to the needs of the public sector have substantially weakened the response capacity of the National Health Service. And neither what happened last winter with the rush to gain alarming concerns, nor even that, moved the previous government that, insensitive to what was going on and indifferent to the consequences for the future, continued on its path of destruction of the National Health Service and continued its policy of cutting in such an important area as the health area. Moreover, at the health level, the previous government had an absolutely irresponsible stance and its reasoning was this: either the health system supported the cuts that the government was imposing — which was entirely impossible and that only the PSD and CDS did not see such evidence — or it would bear the consequences for the future and for the divine, saying "Whatever God wants! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And now here we are leading to the consequences of the policies of the previous government, which has done no more than fattening the private market with health interests. We have still recently received a job from the Independent Medical Union through which doctors expressed their indignation about what is happening in emergency services, where immorality is reigning with professional doctors placed by companies that provide services, often without any specialty, but with charges to the state far above the charges that arise from the medical specialists in the framework. While a company, which provides a professional doctor, receives €960 for 24 hours in emergency service, a doctor from the SNS framework represents a charge to the State of only €380 for the same work. This is a scandal, Mr Minister. We need to get rid of the flood of the temporary work companies that are in the hospitals. There is therefore much to do at all levels: in access to health, where it is necessary to develop mechanisms that place people at the center of the system and reduce inequalities; in quality, optimizing resources to promote the improvement of management and the provision of health care; and also in efficiency, stimulating the ability to obtain more and better results through the optimization of governance instruments and participatory mechanisms in the management of the National Health Service. In summary, what is needed is to restore Portuguese access to health care. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u98	Mrs. Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : Public investment policies, closure of proximity, concentration and merger services, transfer of public sector health care to large private health groups, attack on workers'rights and transfer of health costs to users carried out by PSD and CDS have led to a decrease in SNS response capacity. Thousands of health professionals, by retirement, for emigration and for the private sector have been discharged. These outputs pose serious problems to the functioning of the SNS. There are areas in the country where the shortage of professionals is shocking. in the Algarve, 800 professionals are missing. The policy of exploitation and impoverishment carried out by Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas disproportionately increased social inequalities and levels of poverty that had strong implications for Portuguese health. Some users have stopped buying the medicines they need, they don't go to consultations or treatments, because they can't afford the transportation; there are those who have to choose between feeding themselves or buying the medication and there are those who can't heat up the house. Patients reach increasingly fragile health services. The so propagated reform of primary health care has not happened in the same way: propallations! It has tested the previous government a process of municipalization of health, deresponsiblying the government of its competences in guaranteeing the universal right to health, in addition to building an instrument facilitating the privatization of health care and, above all, primary health care. Mr. President, Minister of Health : The political and ideological project of PSD and CDS was to weaken the public health response, it was to empty the SNS. This project was defeated on October 4 by the Portuguese, so it has to be interrupted. The PSD and the CDS came here today to try to clean up their image and action, but the reality of every day thoroughly refuted what they said here. The new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic has opened the way to prospects for restoring rights, rights taken back to workers, but also to users of the SNS. We note, as positive steps, the measures announced: the strengthening of primary health care, the valorization of wages and the reduction to 35 hours of weekly work, the braking of the process of transfer of hospitals to the Mercy. But we consider it necessary to go further. It is necessary to provide the SNS with motivated professionals, socially valued, value their careers and remuneration and promote the hiring of professionals in need. To make the CFP's position on the public and private sectors clear, we need to say what we have always said. It is necessary to ensure clear separation between the public sector and the private sector and to end with the PPPs ( public-private partners ). It is necessary to take full advantage of the installed capacity of the SNS services in diagnostic and therapeutic means and strengthen it, progressively reducing contracts with the private ones, such as the granting of imaging services in hospitals or the hiring of companies to place professionals. It is necessary to abolish all mechanisms that prevent and limit users' access to the National Health Service, such as moderate rates, and to revise the criteria for the allocation of non-emergency transport in order to ensure that all those who need it enjoy. It is necessary to increase the share of generic medicines, allowing for increased savings for families, but also for SNS. It is necessary to strengthen primary health care, assign a doctor and family nurse to all Portuguese and effectively bet on a policy of health promotion and disease prevention. It is necessary to increase investment in SNS to have the resources needed to respond to the needs of populations and to ensure quality, safety and timeliness of health care. That is why the PCP is here, as it has always been, to contribute to the strengthening of the SNS to meet its universal, general and free principles. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u100	Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u101	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: at the end of this debate, I would like to reiterate some of the points I highlighted in my first speech, of course, the importance of preserving the National Health Service and protecting its indebtedness, as a serious threat to social cohesion and the social state. I would like to stress the importance of serious, non-magogic debate using vague promises or unfounded repetitions of verbs such as « destroy » and « dismantle », as well as of recognizing the unequivocal value of the contribution of health professionals to the functioning of the health system. Having said that, I would like to say that this debate was indeed filled with enormous promises—it was and continues to be important— with matters that require clear answers. And with this clarity and transparency, Mr Minister, not doubting even the seriousness of his intentions, the quality of his preparation and his course, I must say that what we have had here today was a set of vague statements, which need to be clarified, because the management of the Ministry of Health does not sympathize with this lack of objectivity, with this lack of pragmatism. We believe that it will make an effort so that the situation can improve. As the Minister has said, well, they can choose different answers. What is important to associate is that the results must be good and not obtained at the cost of debt, in a recipe that the Portuguese know, with disastrous results, that we reject. For us it is clear that priorities will go from strengthening a strategy that we believe existed, yes, in the previous government. A strategy that went through the option of reducing expenditure and increasing efficiency, which is not a sin in the National Health Service, in the health system, whether private or public resources. A strategy that goes through the fight against fraud, the promotion and prevention of the disease—and we look forward, curiously, to the publication of the results of priority health programmes that involve so much expectation. A strategy that should effectively protect the most vulnerable, which was what was done when anti-pneumococcal vaccination was strengthened, vaccination for people over 65 years of age in the grip and when the exemption of moderate rates was extended to 6 million people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u102	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u103	Having said this, Mr Minister, in fact, what is clear to us is that, as Mr President said, we need to know the reality, we must not ignore the facts, and I regret that we have been said here that we were distracted by the data published today. People are distracted who, contrary to what you have recommended, have not read all that was written. This is because, indeed, the authors of the study mentioned today refer to the impressive rise of recent years, since in 2012 Portugal was in 25. the place—I repeat, in 2012, Portugal was in 25. the place —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u105	...and report the recent descent as a small retreat. Mrs. Members and Mr Minister, with certainty that we want more and better for the National Health Service, we do not want distractions that ignore, as is said today in this result, that there have been improvements in the efficiency of the National Health Service. next time, read the report completely.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u107	Mr. Minister talks about a new time, he talks about trying to make a difference. Here we are to evaluate the results. The only thing I insist on is that, in fact, we want the price for what Mr Minister wants to do different is not the same old recipe: more debt, more costs for Portuguese, debt and new rescue programme, which the Portuguese do not want. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u108	For the closing intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u109	Mr. President, Minister of Health, members of the Government, Mrs. Members: After four years of PSD/CDS government there is no doubt that there have been blind cuts, made without any concern, which, I would go, not only weakened as they even destroyed the National Health Service and its response capacity. There was an ideological motivation on the part of PSD and CDS when it reduced the budget of the National Health Service and increased the transfer to PPPs, IPSSs and Mercy. There was a clear ideological orientation. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u110	There has been a government that has made health more expensive, less affordable and has led several public hospitals to break. Let's see what OECD tells us. The OECD tells us that public health funding has consecutively fallen, year after year, that what the State spends on health per citizen is below the average of the OECD countries, that the dissatisfaction of users has increased, that the sharing of medicines has been reduced, that the health costs borne by families have increased and that is above the average of the OECD countries — the PSD and CDS ignore, they do not want to know, has passed on to them, it is a reality they do not know. So let us hear what the World Health Organization ( WHO) says. WHO says that there have been excessive cuts and unconcerned, that Portugal spends less than 20 % on per capita health, when compared to the European average, that cuts and degradation of working conditions of professionals put and called into question the sustainability of the National Health Service. But more than being here to pick up the various studies we know, perhaps we could focus on the real study that has to do with the Real Country, which has, by the way, passed by certain benches. The PSD and CDS-PP are still stuck to that axiom that made you known in the last election campaign, that the country is better, people are not.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u111	Are people all right now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u112	But know that for the Left Block, the country is the people and the country can only be better when people are better, and the National Health Service is essential for this improvement of living conditions. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Today's debate has given us a confirmation and has made us clearly understand which side of history they are on. The confirmation is that PSD and CDS live a moment of denial and amnesia, a severe amnesia, a quite selective amnesia. The demonstration of who is where the PSD and the CDS, if they could, today they would do everything the same, in fact, deepen the mistakes they made in the past. The PSD and CDS were glued to the past, glued to the worst moment in the history of the National Health Service. The Left Block is on the other side, it is on the side of the future and not on the side of the past, it is here to provide solutions to the problems, it is here to ensure a National Health Service robust, fair, equal and that guarantees social cohesion. Therefore, we present initiatives to reverse the transfer of hospitals to Mercy, because they did not respect the public interest. So we want an investment in these hospitals, because that is all that guarantees the public interest. Therefore, we intend to strengthen the staff of the National Health Service, as well as graduate training for all physicians who have been away from access to boarding school. We therefore want an ongoing public care network. Therefore, we also present for the construction of a stronger National Health Service, legislative initiatives to develop the status of chronic patients...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u113	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u114	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, we also presented legislative initiatives to develop the status of chronic patients and to fully participate in medicines for patients with rare diseases. [[Congratulations from BE and PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u115	You have the floor to speak on behalf of the PS, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, who I greet strongly.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u116	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I pay tribute and take this opportunity to also greet the members of the Government of the Health Team, Minister Adalberto Campos Fernandes, Secretary of State Fernando Araújo and Secretary of State Manuel Delgado, in his first performance and wish them the greatest success for government activity, which will be reflected in all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We have concluded this debate on health policies to speak of one of the most important rights we have, following the first and fundamental right to life, the right to health, to its protection, to access to health care in time and for all without exception. It was not by chance that the founder of the National Health Service was a socialist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Dr. António Arnaut is an ever-present reference and I am sure he is a source of inspiration for the current government. It has also collaborated in the Government Programme which is being implemented two months ago. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: The time for inevitable fatalities, avoluntary measures, last-minute orders to cover the delay in the reforms that is absolutely necessary has ended. As an example, I remember only the reform of primary health care, which was being consolidated when the previous government took possession and which unfortunately suffered a delay, and today are present all the evils that this has brought us. Some answers should be given and, of course, pushing blame is not our panagio, but the health of Portuguese will always be a priority. Therefore, they will have our committed support. We focus, in this first debate, on the reflection on the changes that have already taken place and which, legitimately, we can expect. I would like to highlight, for example, some measures already adopted and implemented by this Government, which have been implemented only two months ago: strengthening epidemiological surveillance of health promotion, primary and secondary prevention; improving the management of human resources and the motivation of health professionals; training of coordinator groups for primary care, hospital care and continuous and integrated care. I also highlight, because I find it very important, the elimination of moderate emergency rates whenever the user is referred to, the overall reduction in the value of moderate rates, the replacement of the right to transport of non-emergency patients, the creation of Simplex for health (and is not a soundbit), the planning and development of the SNS portal, the wager in the electronic health register, among others. These measures, among other things, will contribute decisively to scientific and technological developments, will mark the reality of the medical profession and users, which are the reason for their profession, but will be accompanied by other changes or, perhaps, better say, new requirements. Of course, in the field of ethics and deontology, the new possibilities represent, as has always happened in the progress of humanity, new risks. How to balance the scientific and technological process with absolute respect for human dignity?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u117	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u118	I'm done now, Mr. President. How to deal with more demanding patients and families, trained in the fast courses of Google research on the evening of the eve? The involvement of patients and families, teamwork among different doctors, the only way to ensure adequate diagnosis and therapeutic options and the indispensable continuity of care, is not an easy task, there are differences in how to address the problems. And the challenge is also this: how to deal with them, in an environment of tolerance and mutual respect? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr President : Not being an easy task, we find that we are now able to restore confidence in the National Health Service and improve the access and quality of health care to Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u119	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr José António Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Health in Portugal has undergone critical phases in recent years, given the socio-economic situation and technical failure in which the Socialist Party left the country in 2011. Only a government with a demanding and responsible health policy, as was the PSD/CDS government and the competence and dedication of health professionals made possible the recovery and credibility of the National Health Service, moreover a reference not only in the European Union but also in the rest of the world. Portugal has the best and most well-known health professionals in the European Union. Despite the financial constraints, Portugal and the former Government were able to endure and overcome inadequacies that had been dragged during the years of the Socialist Party's governance. Portugal was, at the end of 2015, better than in 2011. Health was, at the end of 2015, better than in 2011. As a result of the PSD/CDS government policies, over three dozen health institutions — hospitals and health centres — have been built over the past four years. As a result of the PSD/CDS government policies, there are currently more than 6 million Portuguese exempt from the payment of moderate rates. The result of the PSD/CDS government policy and the ongoing concern with the National Health Service users, we have seen a continuous reduction in drug prices. As a result of the PSD/CDS government policy, over 600,000 users have obtained a family doctor over the past four years, more consultations have been conducted in health centers, more consultations have been carried out in the hospital, as well as more surgeries and transplants have been performed. It was in the PSD/CDS government that free influenza vaccination was implemented for all people over 65 years of age. It was the PSD/CDS government that reduced infant mortality to 2, 8 per 1000 births in 2014, presenting the third best indicator in the world. It was the PSD/CDS government and its health policy that contributed to the increase in the average life expectancy of Portuguese, which was in 80 years in 2014. It was in the PSD/CDS government that a profound rebalancing of the National Health Service accounts was achieved, either at the debt level or at the deficit level, or at the level of the hospital's own funds. It was finally in the PSD/CDS Government that the fight against waste and fraud began, which had resulted in a saving of hundreds of millions of euros. Such progress is not the work of chance, it was the result of the policy of a government and the effort of a people. But the PSD/CDS government has also received some inheritance—heavy, say—from the governments of the Socialist Party. That is: debts of the Ministry of Health, which exceeded EUR 3, EUR 7 billion, the pharmaceutical industry threatening to suspend the supply of medicines to the SNS and the cut in supply to hospitals, a Memorandum signed with the troika that predicted cuts of more than EUR 1700 million in 2012 and 2013, being true that these cuts were not more than EUR 710 million, i.e. less than half of the value the PS committed to the troika. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the much that has been done by the previous Government, we recognize that there is still much to do. And in this context, we do not recognize the current Government of the Socialist Party and its allies on the left, so far, ideas or contributions, as well as trivialities and pious declarations to please the supportive unbelievers, as well as no concrete measures that meet the real needs of the Portuguese in terms of health. It is not with the cutting of 10 % in the access of users to hospital emergency services, to save about 48 million euros a year, which improves the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u121	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u122	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is not with the reduction of 50 cents in the value of moderate rates in access to health centres that decongested hospital emergencies. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the health of the Portuguese deserves much more from the Ministry of Health and from the troika to the left, which everything has promised and little seems capable of fulfilling. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u123	To close this debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the conclusion of a debate, it is important to strengthen some clear and priority messages so that we can emphasize that we do not say trivialities, we do not claim trivialities, we do not have an empty speech; we have an idea for the National Health Service in Portugal, for its reconstruction. And then maybe I'll start doing a guess exercise. We assumed that in the last four years, private expenditure in Portugal had not grown and had not been pushed out of the public system so many Portuguese. How would the National Health Service accounts today be? How would the alleged success of the budget adjustment have been classified today? But we also assume that, over the past four years, investment in public hospitals, which has practically fallen to residual levels, has maintained its obligation of functional vitality, not now finding what the current government is facing, which is the need to recover damaged and dysfunctional equipment, demanding a financial recovery effort that for four years, simply no longer exists. How would the National Health Service be today? And it is so negative, Mr President, to declassify the 50 cent drop in the moderate rates in primary health care, when the effort means, as a whole, reducing 25 % of the total effort! [[P.S.'s applause.]] for the first time we came down to moderate rates, for the first time we gave a sign of intelligence in the use of rates, we made exempt from the payment of health care referred to the users who go to the hospitals to do tests with medical prescription. That, yes, honourable Member, seems to me to be a somewhat differentiated speech and to cast a great deal of political banality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But here we are to be evaluated, because we are not afraid to show what's going right and what's going wrong. I invite you guys. Members will see on the next day 1 what will be the expression of public disclosure of our results, what will go well and what will be less well. We will not mask the numbers, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, and we are with you in the concern that a National Health Service is not sustainable if it is based on debt, but it is also not sustainable if it is based on underfinancing, if it is funded on what is a strategy to push people, middle class, out of the public system. And what you did in four years was not to defend the National Health Service, it was to defend the private sector, in a very active, very intense way, which made the Portuguese health system today the most unjust, the most unequal and the most inaccessible in relation to what are the rights of citizenship. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u125	The private sector is where you worked! That's where you've been all these years!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u126	But let's go, then, to what matters, which is to talk about important things that are not trivialities, because triviality is to say that the health sector was subject to strong budgetary constraints. We have no doubt about this. It would be understandable that this sector had not been left out of a global effort that the country demanded, and that was done and understood by the Portuguese. But what's more difficult to understand, sirs. Members, it is that cuts have been introduced so often without criteria, so often with clear damage to access to health care and that those that have been made in human resources have been largely devalued. It is true that more doctors have entered the last few years, but we have replaced young, undifferentiated doctors by pushing out the older, the more competent, the more qualified doctors. And I'm asking, ladies and gentlemen. Members: how did they leave medical training in public hospitals, pre-graduation and post-graduation? How is the training of younger doctors today, at the level of their professional career and career? Rebuilding the National Health Service is something that bothers some sectors of Portuguese political life, but, my dear friends, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we really need to rebuild the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not understand that everything the previous government did was wrong. I have already said, more than once, that there have been well done interventions by the previous government, and I have already pointed out publicly what was its intervention, for example in the area of drug policy and in the necessary fight against excessive income in the sector. I have also appreciated and valued — and we will develop and deepen this path — the fight against fraud, waste and inefficient expenditure. But it is not because we are here in a struggle or in a championship between studies or between what some and others have done of good or bad that the essential thing remains to be said. It is indeed necessary to re-approach the National People's Health Service and to that end, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to leave firmly to you the conviction and the idea that the current government has, in fact, a strategic vision for the health system and the SNS, which is based on three essential pillars. Firstly, access, which is made through the development of mechanisms that definitely put the citizen at the center of the system and which, in fact, make citizens more and more able to go to their nearest doctor and avoid, increasingly, going to hospitals. It is good that Portugal has as its goal to leave the first place in which it is today: that of being the OECD country with the highest number of hospital emergencies as a whole. Secondly, in terms of quality, it is important, ladies and gentlemen. Members, optimize resources by continuously improving management and the provision of smart savings care. Help us, ladies and gentlemen. Members, distinguishing good spending from bad spending, because this is a public service exercise, this is a service to protect funds and public resources. As a third pillar, in terms of efficiency, it is necessary to stimulate the ability to achieve better results, but doing this against professionals will certainly not succeed. That is why we have to involve doctors, nurses and all health professionals in a process of transformation and reform. I would end by saying that we have an ambition, that it is to have a National Health Service that is close to people and citizens, that it is modern, that it is transparent, that it is able to convey, clearly, what it does, that it is capable of valuing the role of health professionals, encouraging new models of cooperation and improvement in the articulation between the care functions, pre- and post-graduation and research training. A very important word for thousands of professionals, more than 120 000, who over the years have done the National Health Service and have served it, all the time, in a context of great resilience, great resistance and great spirit of dedication to the National Health Service itself. It's also important for them, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to say that the replacement of their income is not a political attitude of a symbolic or administrative character, it is the replacement of a right, it is to make people who work in the SNS have more motivation, have more availability and, above all, have more respect for their condition as differentiated technical professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to say here with great enthusiasm that we really want to turn the page and build a new path. We don't have any problems or any kind of hesitation about this. Of course, we can allegorably bring to the debate a huge universe of metaphors — if it is troika, if it is management, what you want, but they have not taken away from us the idea of political seriousness and the purpose of, with the political partners who have established the agreement with us, to do by the Portuguese and by the country better than what you have done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-27.u127	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the thematic debate required by the PS on health policy is concluded and, with that, today's agenda. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 15 p.m. on the following agenda: from the first item there is the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein. 107 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Eighth amendment to Law No 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December 2006 — updating the minimum pension value, social pension and rural pension at inflation level ( CDS-PP ) and 112 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The eighth amendment is made to Law No 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December, which creates the indexer of social support and new rules for the updating of pensions and other social benefits of the social security system ( PSD ). The joint debate on draft resolutions 58 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the identification of the consequences of cuts in the National Health Service ( PCP ) and 64 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Lifting needs in the SNS and urgent intervention in services with serious failures or potentially broken ( BE ). of the third point is the joint discussion of draft resolutions 47 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Students of artistic education who are impaired in access to higher education without pedagogical or curricular justification ( BE ), 107 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by valuing continuous evaluation in the pedagogical process and in the system of access to higher education, by non-discrimination of students of specialized artistic education ( CFP ) and 112 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government evaluate the model of access to higher education by specialized artistic students in order to ensure equal opportunities for all students ( PS ). Finally, the joint debate will take place, in general, of the projects of lein.o 79 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Maintenance of the Fundão Hospital under public management ( PCP ), 85 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Reversion of the Hospital Conde de São Bento, Santo Tirso, to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ), 78 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Reversion of the District Hospital of São João da Madeira to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ) and 113 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Maintenance of the process of the return of hospitals to the Mercy ( CDS-PP ) of petition No 508 / XII ( 4. a ) — Presented by Ricardo da Silva Pinto and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to reopen the emergency service of the District Hospital of São João da Madeira and its continuity in the National Health Service, under the administration of the State, and draft resolutions 92 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the Fund's Hospital and the necessary investment in it ( BE ), 94 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the hospital in Santo Tirso as well as the necessary investment in the hospital ( BE ), 95 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the São João da Madeira District Hospital as well as the necessary investment in it ( BE ), 103 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by maintaining the Fundão Hospital ( integral part of the CHCB) in the National Health Service ( PS ), 108 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the process of the return of hospitals to Mercy ( PSD ), 109 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By public management and at the service of the populations of the hospital in Santo Tirso and by the necessary improvement in human and material resources ( The Greens) and 110 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By public management and at the service of the populations of the District Hospital of São João da Madeira and by the necessary improvement in human and material resources (The Greens). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the memorial ceremony of the Holocaust Day will soon take place. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 38 minutes.]]
