ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities opening the galleries. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary of the Bureau, to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 212 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June, reducing by 20 % the number of signatures necessary for the submission of legislative initiatives by citizens ( PSD ), 213 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 15 -A / 98 of 3 April ( approves the Organic Law of the Referendum Scheme ), reducing by 20 % the number of signatures necessary for the presentation of popular referendum initiatives ( PSD ) and 214 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the initial parental leave up to 210 days, extends the period of parental leave in the event of premature birth and extends the allowance for breastfeeding and breastfeeding to follow up to three years of age, promoting an amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( The Greens ), which falls to 10 years. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u3	Mrs. Members, today's agenda is a marking of the CDS-PP, subject to the theme of demography, birth and family, and consists of the discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 189 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the IRS Code in order to restore the family quota ( CDS-PP ), 190 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Benefits within IRC to companies that promote family responsible behaviour ( CDS-PP ), 191 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code by strengthening the legal protection of prohibited or disabled heirs ( CDS-PP ), 192 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code by establishing the supplementary application of the separation property regime ( CDS-PP ), 193 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 176 / 2003 of 2 August, amended and republished by Decree-Law No 133 / 2012 of 27 June, amends the disability subsidy in the family allowance ( CDS-PP ), 194 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, extending the enjoyment of the supplementary parental leave and the leave for assistance to grandparents ( CDS-PP ), 195 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code amends the exclusive parental leave of the father ( CDS-PP ), 196 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which increases the duration of the initial parental leave from the third child ( CDS-PP ), 197 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — First amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which establishes the prenatal parental leave ( CDS-PP ), 198 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which increases the duration of the initial parental leave for 210 days ( CDS-PP ), 199 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The tenth amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which establishes the allowance for child assistance in place of the allowance for breastfeeding or breastfeeding ( CDS-PP ), 200 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of the scope of the social valleys ( CDS-PP ), 201 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 amends the amounts of parental allowances and creates prenatal parental allowance and parental allowance for premature birth ( CDS-PP ) and 202 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The tenth amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which creates the parental leave for premature birth ( CDS-PP ), in conjunction with draft resolutions 237 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government increase from three to five cycles of assisted drug reproductive treatments, shared by the National Health Service ( CDS-PP ), 286 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create the guarantee plan for children and young people with disabilities ( CDS-PP ), which has been rejected, 287 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create an incentive for a culture of corporate accountability ( CDS-PP ), 288 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish the Family Portal and a plan for its disclosure ( CDS-PP ), 289 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Flexibility of daycare hours through social security cooperation agreements, incentives to be established by companies and promotion of agreements between childcare establishments and employers ( CDS-PP ), 290 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee for monitoring initiatives on family and birth ( CDS-PP ), 291 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate telework ( CDS-PP ), 292 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consensual review of the school calendar ( CDS-PP ), 293 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrate 31 May as the National Day of the Brothers ( CDS-PP ), 294 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure and promote differentiation in access to housing and support to assign dependants and spouses to all existing programmes or to create ( CDS-PP ), 295 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend the legal regime for access to financial support Port 65 — Rent by Youth ( Porta 65 - Jovem ) ( CDS-PP ), 281 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Integrated measures to encourage birth ( CFP ) and 296 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Parentality protection measures ( BE ). To open the debate, you have the floor of Mrs Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal 1, 2 children per woman are born today. It is the lowest fertility rate in the European Union and the fifth worst in the world. In 2014 only 82 367 babies were born. It was the lowest peak in the number of births. And yet, studies — and still this week, another study has been revealed — show that Portuguese and Portuguese want to have more children, but do not feel able to carry out this life project. It is not only the life of each of these people who remains to be fulfilled, it is also the whole country who sees their promised future.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u6	A country without children is a country with less hope, less energy, less creativity and also less joy for the elderly, who do not see grandchildren and great-grandchildren born and growing. It is a country that compromises economic growth and cannot pay retirement pensions. But it is possible to reverse this trend. Other countries have done so successfully. We know that an environment of economic growth, job creation and stability are essential to building confidence that will enable the decision to have children. And everything we do to ensure job creation and economic growth will certainly help, but it is not enough. For decades births have declined. Since 1982 we have not been able to rest generations. After that, we have already had several cycles of growth and prosperity, and that is why the trend has not reversed. It is therefore necessary to insist on a coherent set of policies in various areas: from social benefits to taxation, from employment/family reconciliation to formal support to early childhood, through housing policies and a sensitivity to this issue in all sectoral policies. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Despite progress in public policies to support birth and family life, it is necessary to insist to ensure a solid and progressive reversal of the decline in birth. This insistence is certainly progressing in a number of areas, but it is also ensuring that there is stability and a progressive deepening of these policies. Since 2007 that, for the CDS, the topic of birth is at the top of your agenda. at that time, just entered the party, I was pleased to coordinate the mission group that produced the Christmas report - The Portuguese challenge. The generality of the measures we proposed at that time have been implemented over these years. And even we had one — the family quota — which was adopted by the previous government and replaced by another measure. Even in times of greater financial restriction, we managed not to return, but to maintain or even progress in the specific area of family support. And even when the option is different, the issue has not ceased to be taken into account by all governments. We therefore consider that it is time to return to this issue here in Parliament, where, in fact, in the past legislative session, also by the hands of the then parliamentary majority PSD / CDS, the issue was discussed and many solutions were recommended and adopted by the Government. And, therefore, we have marked our first legislative agenda precisely with the subject of birth. We want to address the issue of birth in an integrated way. We know that the answer is not one or another isolated. And we also know that the results will only appear if we have a consistent and articulated set of measures. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We have therefore submitted 24 projects, 13 bills, to which we can still add the extension of treatments in assisted drug procreation, and 11 draft resolutions. They refer to parental leave (enlargement of leave, creation of prenatal leave and early birth leave, extension of leave from the third child, extension of the supplementary leave to grandparents), assistance to children (enlargement of dispensation of hours per day up to 2 years and extension to grandparents) and the reconciliation of work/family, disability, the flexibility of daycare hours or the revision of the school schedule, measures that encourage a culture of involvement and responsibility of businesses, housing or creation, following a popular petition, of the day of the brothers. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me refer to three lines which are subject to these proposals. The first results from the conviction, confirmed by several studies, that it is good that mother and father share more times of dedication to children and, therefore, we propose that the compulsory leave of the father passes from 15 working days to 30 consecutive days and we propose that the 7. the month of leave, as already happens today with the 6th. the month, be enjoyed by the « other» parent, which, in the case of Portugal, is typically the father. When the roles of mother and father in child care are more balanced, when the involvement of parents is more recognized by society, not only will women suffer less discrimination, as of course they will feel more able to have the children they wish. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The second relates to the creation of conditions so that grandparents, so often conditioned by their own work, can, wanting, be involved in supporting their grandchildren. in the line of legislation already approved on a continuous and part-time journey, grandparents are allowed to enjoy the additional license and use the dispensation for child assistance. The third result from the need to involve and value the companies that embrace this national design, promoting internal policies to support their workers and families. Therefore, together with a set of incentives, we propose the creation of the family-responsible company premium because we believe that the good examples will bring more. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We propose that all these measures and those of all parties should be assessed, discussed and approved in a possible committee for monitoring initiatives on family and birth. This will be the right space to hear social partners and other civil society entities and improve the various projects. Low birth is a structural problem for the country, which all must convene and whose solution must be above any party dispute. Concertation of policies and stability in their application are essential values in the topic of birth. We are therefore here to hear and improve, to open the debate and to launch for the political debate a subject which is a national urgency. We therefore welcome the fact that other parties have already put forward proposals in this area and I am sure that more will be presented by everyone. I truly believe in deep work, in the advantage of consultation of points of view, in concessions for more stable solutions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not grow up at birth, there is no sustainability of the pensions we pay or the economic growth we want, there is less hope, less energy and certainly less creativity, there is less sense of the future. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Adam Silva.]] We have an opportunity here to understand this issue of national urgency. Frankly, if we don't understand about this, I don't see how the Portuguese can understand us! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u7	at a time when many speak of consensus, when Mr President of the Republic asks for consensus, the CDS wants to move from words to action. Let us therefore begin by birth with a productive dialogue which can then be extended to other matters. I believe that the outcome of this Parliament's legislative work will certainly be better than all the proposals that have already been put forward. It may not be entirely compatible with all our proposals, it is natural that this is the case, but the teamwork of all party forces, listening to the social partners and other relevant entities, will result, I am sure, in a more refined, more solid and more durable legislative package. from the CDS side, we'll do everything, I'll do everything so that it is! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, standing up, and the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u8	Five were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. The honourable Member has informed the Bureau that it will respond first to a group of three Members. Members and then a group of two Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the first group are members of the group. Members Rita Rato, PCP, Nilza de Sena, PSD, and José Moura Soeiro, BE. Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Assumption Cristas, the CDS has already been the party of the taxpayers, it was the party of the farm and it was the party of the pensioners. And now, four years after the PSD/CDS government cut pensions and increase taxes, whether the Portuguese believe the CDS will become the party of birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u11	Madam Member, this CDS schedule, let me tell you very frankly, is a deep political hypocrisy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u12	And I'll tell you why, Your Honor. Because this agenda aims at two things: firstly, to wash off the responsibilities that the CDS has had over the past four years in the degradation of the living conditions of families; and secondly, to clear the image that has a direct responsibility in the degradation of the conditions of survival of many Portuguese families. [[PCP applause.]] Mrs Assunção Cristas, we do not forget what was the result of the last four years of PSD/CDS government: half a million Portuguese were forced to emigrate to escape unemployment and poverty, were invited to emigrate by your Government, Mrs Deputy. And the young people who left the country did so at a fertile age, which meant a double loss to the country and compromised the renewal of generations. Mrs. Member, where was the CDS at the time? Were you worried about this bleeding of new people leaving the country over the past four years? [[PCP applause.]] The CDS, Mrs. Mrs. Christian Assumption, was in a government, and did not have any folder. It is recalled that one of the folders the CDS had at the time was that of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u14	And remember something else, Mrs Deputies: the measures that have been taken in the context of social security have all the less protected families. They cut family fertilizers, cut—it's over! — maternity and paternity leave,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u15	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u16	... they cut the social income of insertion, cut wages, cut pensions, closed basic public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u18	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u19	Sir, it's not a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u20	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u21	The CFP presented a parliamentary assessment of this decree. The gentlemen. Members now may want the past to be a lie, but it is not a lie. And it's not a lie, unfortunately! They refused to have the Portuguese people suffer for four years. Unfortunately, it's not a lie! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Do not now come the CDS, after undoing the coalition, say that what happened from bad is the fault of the PSD and that they are now here to save the families. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs Assunción Cristas, I would like to tell you in particular some of the measures we have taken. Nine months ago—it was not so long ago—the PCP presented, in this House, a proposal for the creation of a specific prematurity license for parents and mothers of premature babies. Nine months ago, the Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, who was from the CDS, led this proposal from the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u22	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u23	Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u24	Nine months ago, the CFP presented in this House a proposal to strengthen support for minors and children with chronic illness. Mrs Cristas, the Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, who was from the CDS, led this proposal from the CFP! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u25	Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u26	Mrs Assumption Cristas comes here to say that the problem has nothing to do with the CDS and that they are here for consensus. Madam Member, the CFP means, very frankly, that it does not understand the issues of birth, maternity and inseparable paternity of the living conditions of families. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u27	If families don't have children, it's not because they don't want to, Mrs. Member. If you ask Portuguese families why they don't want to have children or more children, they say: "We want, but we can't, because we don't have money, because the salary is bad enough for two as much as three, four or five". in this country, families with children are at the greatest risk of poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u28	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u29	That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to say that — and these are the proposals we are putting forward — on the part of the CFP, we will be here in the past as in the present to defend the improvement of living conditions, maternity rights and to propose for the fifth time the specific prematurity licence, which the CDS has dropped four times. See that the CDS has now agreed to the birth problem! for our part, here we will be with Portuguese families fighting for a fairer country in which birth, maternity and paternity are not seen by companies as obstacles but as rights that are part of the democratic regime. That's what we're here for, and that's what we're gonna be fighting for. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u30	The Bureau did not use any tolerance system because the time is short in the overall time of its parliamentary group. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Nilza de Sena.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Assumption Cristas, I begin by congratulating the CDS for bringing the debate to an absolutely central issue for our collective future. We know that population dynamics represent one of the important structural challenges facing Portuguese society. The uncertainty about the evolution of the main indicators leads us to have a strategic reflection in this area and demands, on the part of political actors, a strategy that is convergent and that defines adjusted public policies. The Portuguese situation is in fact one of the most worrying in the Community, only comparable to the Baltic countries such as Latvia and Lithuania, or even to the eastern countries such as Romania and Bulgaria. We are very concerned about this. But these problems do not go back only to recent years or to the latest legislation. This process has been going through several legislatures since the 1990s, as evidenced by the decline in births and the patent aging index in all statistics on this subject. It is true — it should be remembered — that until the 1970s the southern countries were the cradle of Europe, and Portugal included. In 1970, Portugal had the lowest aging rate. Today, it is the sixth oldest country in the world and the fifth at European level. This should make us think and act. The PSD has been committed to this matter since the beginning, both in its identity matrix and, I would say, in its programmatic genesis, or in its government action, including that of the last government. in this sense, the discussion on the set of proposals presented by the CDS today is relevant, and the PSD considers that there is a set of subjects that should be reflected. We welcome the CDS for the amendment proposed to the IRS Code in order to restore the family quotient. Its abolition was one of the biggest tax injustices imposed by the State Budget for 2016, removing the positive discrimination that was made to families with children and grandparents, who provide important support to our families. The removal of this measure, which happened a short time ago, came to bring a backwardness and a contradictory signal to the needs. We also welcome the discussion on amendments to parental leave, a subject which has several proposals under discussion today. The introduction of the parental leave for premature birth, which has already been mentioned here by Mrs Rita Rato, was discussed in the previous legislation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u32	It's down by the gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u33	... deserves a more in-depth debate and deserves, in fact, an assessment of the number of births of premature babies in our country and even an impact assessment. Changes to the sole licence of the father also deserve careful evaluation. We must not forget that the increase in the time of this licence has increased from 10 to 15 days and has entered into force with the last State budget. We still have no data on this issue that would allow us to realize the parents' adherence to this licence, although, of course, the principle of quality time of parents with their children is a first-rate issue in this area. On the other hand, there are proposals that the CDS submits that they were already approved but not implemented, as is the case with the Family Portal and others, and there are other initiatives that it was also important to understand how much it costs the economy, the country's productivity and what its impact. in this sense, and considering that the time between the adoption of the last proposals, its implementation and its results is still a very short time, I ask Mrs Assunção Cristos whether the CDS is available to make this previous assessment and it is considered that, after this evaluation, we could then adjust the proposals for measures on this subject more specifically, recognizing that the issue requires responses that are increasingly inadmissible, inevitable and indispensable. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u34	Mr José Soeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u35	Mr President, Mrs Cristian Assumption, the CDS today presents 25 legislative initiatives, including draft laws and draft resolutions, and all of them with the same statement of reasons — could have concentrated them a little, but thus gives more healthy — to create, and I quote, «a friendly environment of families». The CDS wants a friendly environment for families and children. The honourable Member spoke in consensus and I also think that there are some very important consensus, but this is the time to ask you a few questions. I would like to ask you whether you could not have remembered being a friend of the families when your government cut the RSI (inclusion social income) to 65,000 children. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]] I'd like to ask you if you couldn't remember being a friend of the families when the CDS rejected the free breakfast for the children of 1. the cycle. And this was not so long ago, Mrs. Member, it was in mid-2012. I would like to ask you if you couldn't remember being family friends when you decided to keep the family allowance frozen. I would like to ask you if you couldn't remember being friends with children and families when we discussed the codification and adoption by couples of the same sex. Or are there families of primers, families of second and others who don't even deserve any kind of recognition, Mrs. Member? [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Mrs Assunção Cristas, do you not want to ask your bench colleague Pedro Mota Soares, former Minister of Social Security, if you could not have remembered being friends with families and children when you fired hundreds of social security workers, many of whom worked on child protection committees and young people at risk? Couldn't you remember being friends of the families and the time that families have to be with their children when they eliminated four holidays, which this government has already restored? Couldn't you remember being friends of families when you took time for parents and mothers to be with children and when you promoted changes to the Labour Code, extending and generalizing contracts over time?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u37	You couldn't have remembered being family friends, sirs. Members of the CDS-PP, when they included in the Labour Code mobility clauses that make a mother who is breast-feeding be forced to go to work 30 km from home? Couldn't you have remembered the families at that time, Your Honor? Could you not have remembered the friendship they now have for the families when they included in the Labour Code the hours bank and when they encouraged and embarrassed the extra work by taking away life time from people and families, Mrs Deputies? Couldn't you remember the families when the CDS-PP facilitated redundancies and reduced the amount of compensation? The honourable Member has brought here a draft law on this matter — the praise of the contribution that grandparents and grandparents can make. The love we have for our grandparents is not at stake. Each has his own experience and there are those who still have the happiness of living with his grandparents. But, Mrs. Member, I would like to ask you the following: you couldn't have remembered your grandparents when you changed the income law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u38	The grandparents have been protected!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u39	... that creates unrest for so many hundreds and thousands of grandparents in this country and what causes so many poor families to leave their homes? [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] Could you not have remembered the grandparents, Mrs. Member, when you cut the pensions and when you cut the CSI (sympathetic supplement for the elderly) to 70,000 elderly? Or the elderly who saw the ISC cut aren't grandparents, Mrs. Member? Don't those grandparents count?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u40	The grandparents have been protected!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u41	Madam Member, how do you want to be a friend of birth, I ask you: couldn't you have remembered being a friend of birth and family when we discussed here the increase in minimum wage? Madam Member, why don't you remember being a friend of birth now that we are discussing the expansion of drug procreation assisted to all women? Or does birth count only for some people or should it only be accessible to certain types of women, to those who look more like the Member of the Christian Assumption? Don't you all count, Mrs. Deputy? [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] On this, it would be interesting if there were a consensus, because it is a discussion that we are making about birth. It would be interesting — and I invite the CDS — to be part of this consensus on the extension of assisted drug procreation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u42	What's the Block's proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u43	I will now go to the PSD, so excuse me for starting to scream, Mr. Now, the question I put is addressed to Mrs Assumption Cristas. I hear you talking, Mrs. Member, and I just wonder if the CDS could not have remembered being friends with families in all these circumstances, decisions and concrete occasions. Power, they could, but it wasn't the CDS, mrs. With friends like that, let me tell you, families don't need enemies! [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u44	In reply, you have the floor of Mrs Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u45	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato and Mr José — I will then reply to Mrs Nilza de Sena — there are two ways of doing this debate, and one of them is the one you seem to have chosen: to adopt a clumsy, angry tone, to talk about all the issues and to call for a disgrace that would be the one we are living today. I could have come here and said that whoever cut the family allowance or who cut the parental leave was the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u46	We didn't cut, we grew up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u47	...part that you, at this moment, support. But I didn't understand to do it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I could have said that who is currently invoking fraud in the Euro 200 million RSI is your Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. [[PS protests.]] It could also clarify that there were no redundancies in the previous government, much less in social security; there was requalification. He could also have said that the income law protected precisely grandparents and older ones. Mr Soeiro should not be reminded of the safeguard clause covering people over the age of 65 and people with a financial shortage. It could also have pointed out that the minimum wage was frozen during the period of the troika because the Socialist Party led us to bankruptcy and it was the PSD/CDS government that, sending the troika to its origin, was able to start the increase in the salary. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I could have said all that, but frankly, I think we have to choose the points where the country, more than everything, deserves some concordance and some consensus. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u48	As far as I can see, the Left Block and the CFP have presented projects already in the past and now for this same debate and I have had the opportunity to point out that what is most important to me is that there is a minimum consensus in this area. And a minimum consensus is to consider that this issue is important, it is structural and does not go there only with economic growth and employment, because, if so, we would not be falling in birth for more than 30 years. If so, the growth cycles would have corresponded to an increase in birth, and that did not happen. Therefore, we need specifically to look at these issues, to think deeply, to take advantage of the reflection being made, also by civil society. Again this week there was another study that shows, for example, that age, Mrs Rita Rato, is a central issue in all this matter, in order to realize that the question of reconciling work/ family and how women feel supported in sharing responsibilities with their children is absolutely critical in this matter. Gender equality should therefore be called to this debate so that we can see that there is still a lot to do. And it is not, Mrs Rita Rato, an isolated measure, many consistent measures. That is why the CDS has been talking about this subject since 2007 and that in the time of the troika it was able to hold what existed and did not cut off subsidies. I can tell you, Mrs Member, that we have had several discussions with the troika — and Mr Pedro Mota Soares can testify to this in the first person — because it requires us to suddenly proceed to the taxation of parental leave and maternity leave. And the government stood there, made the loud voice that you are complaining about, and said that we were out of the question going that way. Therefore, in an extraordinarily difficult period, we can not only retain some support, as we have hardly gotten rid of the troika, progress, and the family quotient is an example. Mrs Nilza de Sena, precisely the family quotient is a subject that concerns us, but in this matter I am deeply pragmatic: I do not think we have any consensus here, I am sure that this measure will not happen. however, we did not want to stop placing this package, because we are convinced that it is the best, and we are convinced of studies and work done. However, that is not why we will not be able to reach consensus on other matters, that is not why we will not be able to make progress on other matters. And I hope that, in the committee that may be set up by this debate and with this vote, we can not only look at all the work that has been done by the previous Government and all these proposals, these and the others, which the other parties intend to bring, so that we can reach a consensus on this. I do not believe that Portuguese and Portuguese value a positive exchange of blame or a mutual accusation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u50	That's not why we're here. We are here not to look at and judge the past in this particular matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u51	Ah, talk about the past, that's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u52	... but, yes, to build the future for the country and for the Portuguese, to allow people to fulfill their life plan and the country can have more children, more courage and more hope. Therefore, surely we are available to verify impacts and progress in these matters, and in particular in the case of the father's license, my conviction, based on scientific studies, is that the more we share we have more children were also born in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u53	Also in this case there was no facilitation on the part of the Bureau, since it had used the time of its parliamentary group. To request clarification, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u54	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, it is certainly a matter of the greatest importance, but it is not possible to speak of the message without talking about the messenger. And what the messenger has done over the past four years, I have told you, Mrs Member, is totally contrary to what you have presented here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u55	Don't! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u56	And the CDS has to assume its responsibilities. The honourable Member may speak here about the difficult adjustment programme, but it was the CDS and the PSD that, already with the ongoing adjustment programme — and therefore cannot use the adjustment programme as an excuse — said that all the measures presented in the Council of Ministers would have the 'family visa'. No one has seen the « familiar visa», Mrs Deputies, much less the Portuguese families who are supposed to benefit from it and who have certainly not benefited. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member has talked about a number of things but has forgotten to say that there is probably no greater attack on birth than emigration. Who have been the two parties most responsible for emigration in recent years? PSD and CDS, not because they had happened at the same time as they were in the government, but because they actively promoted emigration and took measures that favoured emigration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Then, Mrs Deputy, reducing living conditions and crushing Portuguese income is certainly not a measure to support birth. That is what they did and only did not do because there were those who, in particular, left parties, were the Constitutional Court to block this income cut, Mrs. [[P.S.P.P. and P.P.P.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The honourable Member also cannot ignore that there is something that is pointed out in all studies as a very serious impediment to birth is precariousness and instability in labour relations. The honourable Member cannot ignore that the reforms made in the labour market and the Labour Code aimed at the opposite: using precariousness as a condition of competitiveness and using flexibility as a path to prosperity in Portugal. The honourable Member and the Government to which you belong could believe this, but you can be sure that this does nothing for birth, on the contrary. Then they cut social support, and there weren't few! They cut, as Mr Soeiro said here, the RSI (social income of insertion) to 65,000 children. [[CDS-PP protests.]] They have taken the solidarity supplement for the elderly to 70,000 elderly, if I am not mistaken, who are also grandparents. They cut pensions and wanted to cut more pensions, they wanted to cut more survival pensions, and I think all this is grandparents' incomes, Mrs. [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] If we cut the income to grandparents, you can be sure, Mrs. Member, as we have seen many cases in Lisbon and other cities, grandparents will have to go to work, to taxis or other jobs of the genre, because, having lost their jobs, they have lost their income and are too old to work and too new to retire. About these, Mrs. Member, the CDS didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u57	The PS in the past didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u58	So, as it is obvious, it is important to do here an analysis of the last four years. I am going to give you an example of a measure taken by a ministry led by the CDS, and I hope that you will be ashamed of Mrs Cristas and also the person responsible for this measure: there was a criticism of the Ombudsman about the inequality in the allocation of maternity allowances, and it was a fair criticism, because, in fact, there was inequality in the allocation of maternity allowance values, since people had different subsidy values, depending on the period in which this subsidy was required, or not, the periods in which they received holiday and Christmas subsidies. This criticism was presented by the Province to the Government, and the Government had two ways to solve it: one, level above, ending injustice. What did the CDS do? Level down! He cut everything, to ensure that equity was made in a race to the bottom, cutting maternity allowances. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, with all sincerity, recognizing that the issue is important and until there are positive proposals on the part of the CDS,... [[Come on!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u59	... I am sorry to say, but it is not possible for any political officer to make an intervention from that rostrum, presenting birth as one of the greatest challenges that Portugal faces, and without making a single fault about the contribution it has made — and it was not enough, Madam Commissioner — for the problem of birth to worsen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] The honourable Member, recently, gave an interview in which she said that Pedro Passos Coelho had certainly more reasons to apologize to the Portuguese than the CDS. I ask you, Madam Member : in these matters of birth, social security and support for the family, does the CDS recognise, or does it not, that you have in fact to apologize to the Portuguese? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u60	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u61	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, I believe that there is an issue which has to be clarified at the beginning of the debate. And that is why the CDS, which was in the Government in the past legislature and which was part of the parliamentary majority, of the majority of Members in the Assembly of the Republic, did not present this set of proposals just when it had this majority in the Assembly of the Republic?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u62	That's very easy to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u63	The honourable Member has already mentioned, and perhaps I can guess a part of the answer, which we were under the condition that a programme of assistance would be carried out.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u64	You see how you know the answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u65	That's right! You see how he knows!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u66	Exactly, «You see how you know! », says the CDS bench! But let me remind you, Mrs. Member, in May 2014 you were going to put an end to all the transitional measures affecting Portuguese families. [[CDS-PP protests.]] They were going to pay the salaries. They were going to break that brutal increase of taxes, they had made that promise to the Portuguese. Why, from May 2014 to the end of the Legislature, in which the troika was no longer here—or was it under your hands? — did they not present the measures they are now presenting? I will ask you one more question that you have to answer here today in Parliament : why some of these measures that you have submitted, including parental leave in the case of premature children, or assistance to children with chronic diseases, measures that have already been presented in your past legislation, have at that time obtained your vote against, Mrs Deputie? And now you're coming up with proposals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u67	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u68	Madam Member, it may be important to remember the past that built the history of the CDS in this matter of birth, that the honourable Member here says that it is a priority for the CDS. Madam Member, perhaps we can all say that it has been a priority for the most diverse seats, or is it not true? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u69	I hope so!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u70	All the banks here have put forward a number of proposals on this matter. But, Mrs Deputy, the proposals presented here by the Greens have obtained the vote against your bench. After all, what priority is this? Oh, my God! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] More: what the CDS did in the past legislature, in favor of the increase in the birth rate, was, well see, cuts in the family allowance,... [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u71	... cuts in maternity allowance, which you now say is not true, but I remember Decree-Law No 133/2012 — it may be good to read it. I remember their promise as a family doctor to the entire Portuguese population. Do you remember the party that forced you here to approve, in view of the proposal they had made, that at least all the children in the country had a family doctor?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u72	It was us! It was with us that more progress was made in family doctors!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u73	It was the Greens, Mrs Deputies, because you did not comply in any way with the proposal they had made!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u74	This is Parliamentary appreciation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u75	But I will remind you more of what you did in favour of birth in the past legislature: you have reduced your IRS deductions to the costs of education and health—which have helped families a great deal! — increased precariousness, made a low-wage policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u76	We increased the minimum wage that was frozen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u77	They brutally increased emigration levels. The honourable Member has asked the question: why not also involve grandparents in supporting children? Oh, my God! Mrs Deputy, Mrs Deputy's party, and also the PSD, what did they offer these grandparents, who eventually had the opportunity to help? What did you offer these grandparents? Pension freeze!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u78	The defrosting of pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u79	Solidarity complement of the elderly! I'm growing the retirement age! That's it, Mrs. Member! So you know what conclusion I'm taking at the end of this? This sounds so fake! But so much falsehood! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Your proposals do not sound the truth, I am very sorry, Madam Member. There is a past that Mrs. Member now wants to put back, she wants to put under the carpet, she wants to forget, but the Portuguese don't forget, Mrs. Member! You know why? Because they were concrete victims of your absolutely disastrous policies for families. [[CDS-PP protests.]] And the honourable Member will excuse me, but she must bear with this past, she must bear with this past because the parties have history in politics that they do, and the history of the CDS is not, at all, a friend of the families, nor of birth. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u80	In reply, you have the floor of Mrs Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u81	Mr President, Mr João Galamba and Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I did not want to bring to the debate the clause of the Memorandum of Understanding signed by the Socialist Party, which at the time said that we should include, for the purposes of IRS, all social benefits, which meant a 13 % cut in maternity and paternity leave. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Frankly, that's not what I was interested in here. As I also did not want to bring the list of times when we did not want the troika to cut us more than what was already cutting us, particularly in this area, nor to explain to you that we, apart from the family quota, introduced relevant regulations such as telework, which the government has not yet regulated, to benefit from remote work. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] We have regulated the subject of love to help support the first child more formally. We have extended to grandparents a set of measures, either on part-time, on a continuous basis, or on a failure regime. This is to tell you that we have not only been able to safeguard much support for the family as we have been able to make bad progress, and we have not seen the country freed from the troika, which has been called by you and you are now also responsible. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] I would like to tell you that it is not, frankly, that, in my view, it will help us to make progress in this matter. What I would have heard here today would certainly be a critical analysis of whether these 25 proposals, in the view of this House, are in the right direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u82	They didn't even read them!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u83	I withdraw from this debate which are in the right direction, because several Members. Members have also mentioned that they have already put forward similar proposals on this matter, and there are already proposals on the table. They are therefore proposals in the right direction and we must work with them. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] I believe that this is the most relevant capital of this discussion. We can't always be discussing the same things with the same aggressive tone!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u85	I'm sorry, but that's not what's expected of us out there. From us we are expected to be able to deepen, discuss, work with concrete projects. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] I didn't come to make a proclamation of birth support. This bench has presented 25 initiatives, bills and draft resolutions, concrete and it is in relation to those that I am interested in finding out whether we have conditions for working them in depth. on our part, there is complete availability for the molds in which this work is being done with the projects of all parties, from The Greens, to the PCP, to the Left Block and the Socialist Party, which I hope will also bring the elements it has at its disposal, so that at the end of the work of a specific committee for this purpose we can achieve policies, measures, with stability and durability. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u86	And then, of course, we can say that it is not the CDS-PP that has at birth one of its first concerns, but all the parties of this House,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u87	Those who weren't good turned out to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u88	... because all parties recognize that, for the country, the question of birth is structural.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u89	You can't be taken seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u90	We are here dealing with a very important issue in various dimensions and therefore—and we are not the Greens, nor the PCP, nor the Block or PSD, which has worked so much in the previous Parliament, we are all—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u91	But we are consistent, not you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u92	...that consensus and union will certainly bear fruit not for us, or for you, but for the whole country. And that's what I'm interested in. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u93	PCP coherence is running away! It's sitting down, being ashamed and going out there! It's PCP coherence!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u94	You can't be taken seriously! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u95	Out there they are against, here they vote in favour! [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u96	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for setting up the conditions for us to continue our work. For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: unlike the CDS, which brings here today proposals that, in the past, have led, waiting, thus, to whiteen the responsibilities it has in the political options it has taken for four years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u98	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u99	... the CFP presents today, as it has in the past, integrated measures to encourage birth. It is important to say that the low number of births of children is not the work of chance, nor is there a fatality of fate, it is the result of political options taken over the years. Portuguese families have no children, or have no children, not because they do not want to, but because their living conditions do not allow.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u100	Because of the CDS-PP!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u101	For the PCP to talk about birth is inseparable from the defense of the social function of maternity and paternity and the realization of a conscious, free and responsible motherhood and paternity. It is inseparable from the protection of children and young people and the promotion of their integral development, the guarantee of the right of the child to be desired and loved, as well as the guarantee of economic and social conditions so that all opportunities are assured.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u102	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u103	We recognize that low births have multifactorial causes and that it is necessary to find transversal solutions at the economic, social and cultural levels, but that they are equally lasting.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u104	Listen! Listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u105	Combating low birth is inseparable from the value of work and full respect for workers' rights. It is inseparable from the guarantee of labour stability and the conditions for the articulation of family, personal and professional life. It is inseparable from an income policy that ensures decent living conditions for families and a network of public equipment to support children and youth, as well as measures that guarantee access to health and education, eliminating conditionalisms that most determine the breaking of birth and that bet on solutions that respond, yes, to the various factors that affect birth. unlike the CDS-PP, which seems to have agreed today for the problem of birth, after four years to destroy rights and incomes of families, children and young people, the PCP has long warned about issues related to maternity, paternity and birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u107	unlike the CDS-PP, which today presents what it rejected in the past, the PCP, maintaining its coherence, presents again an initiative, identifying the causes that are at the root of the problem and where it is proposed to combat these same causes and to create the necessary conditions for conscious, free and responsible motherhood and paternity, defining multisectoral measures, but that respond with greater relevance to the issues related to the valuation of wages, with the quality of employment, with full respect for and compliance with labour and social rights. It is also important to note that the CFP has recently introduced a series of legislative initiatives aimed at combating precariousness, which aim to ensure labour stability, ensuring that permanent needs and a permanent job correspond, yes, to an effective link. We have also presented a legislative initiative that strengthens the rights of motherhood and paternity, another that eliminates the mechanisms of adaptability and the hour bank and a legislative initiative that provides 35 hours for all workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u109	This is because we understand that, in order to respond to the problem of birth, it is important, indeed, to raise the living conditions of families and Portuguese people and to take a path that is of progress and social justice. It's this way that the PCP is here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u110	The Bureau did not register any entries for requests for clarification. Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parentality is a decision of free individuals. In other words, the decision to have children on the ground or in marriage is a free choice, it is not an obligation. [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] The debate we are having today is about how we guarantee that this choice can be made in conditions of true freedom. It's not a coincidence, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2010 there has been a greater number of deaths than in births and the situation has only worsened since 2010 here. It's not a coincidence! And I don't know if you've noticed that this exactly coincides with the period when the CDS-PP was in the government, which means...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u112	A CDS? Oh, my God! Go make some bills!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u113	Yes, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014! It's only getting worse, sir! Which means that it was just during the period when the CDS-PP and PSD were in government. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Why do people today have fewer children? Is that why you don't want to? No, it's not because you don't want to. This is because if we compare the fertility that really exists with the desired fertility, that is, with the desire that people say they have in relation to parenthood, we verify a lack of incidence. People do not have the children they want, but they make choices that are conditional on unemployment, precariousness, impoverishment, lack of income and conditions. That is why the proposals presented by the Left Block are going in the direction of what we consider essential. There is no promotion of parenthood without the fight against precariousness. It is curious that there is no reference to precariousness in CDS-PP bills. It is curious and significant, because precariousness is today really the state of stand by where people, especially the younger ones, find themselves, without protection, without parental rights, without security, without being able to plan their lives and their future. Therefore, it is not by flexible laws or by promoting part-time, as proposed by the CDS-PP, but by combating the precariousness that we stimulate and protect parenthood. Secondly, we want to combat gender inequalities. Women are preeminent in employment and careers, they continue to accumulate more tasks at home, in the home space, and what happens to women in employment interviews and in the experimental period is totally scandalous. We need the Act (Working Conditions Authority) to have an iron hand against this discrimination and against these situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u114	Now you can do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u115	Thirdly, we want to strengthen public policies for support in childhood and child protection in terms of public childcare provision and the strengthening of child support in the first three years of the child. Finally, we want more time to live in parenthood and to accompany the children to all families, also to adoptive families, and therefore we propose—and we have already delivered these projects—the extension of parental leave up to six months, pays 100 % if shared between father and mother, father and mother, and the extension to two hours a day of dispensation for child follow-up up to two years of the child. Thus we will be giving more time for people to live their kinship. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u116	Once again, the Bureau does not record any registration for requests for clarification, so we proceed to the following intervention. Mrs. Teresa Morais has the palace.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us debate once again, and it will not be too much, the subject of demography, of birth and of the family, in accordance with the terms proposed by the CDS-PP, that I comply. This is a matter to which the Social Democratic Party attaches the greatest importance and whose national debate has, as we know well, launched in 2014 when we request an independent set of experts to study the subject with the appropriate amplitude and present the result of this work within three months. Thus came the report of the Committee on Christmas Policy in Portugal, designated « By a Portugal friend of children, families and births ( 2015 - 2035 ) : remove the obstacles to the desired birth ». With this report, in whose summary can be read « (...) the cause is noble, the action is urgent, (...) », the PSD has promoted an extended debate which has had multiple opportunities for discussion a little across the country and has laid the foundations for a national strategy to combat the demographic problem, which, being a concern throughout Europe, affects us with great hardness. from here he started an intense parliamentary debate, which was especially committed by the PSD, which, in fact, did not involve all parties at all just because some — and I cannot but quote, in particular, the Socialist Party — preferred, then, to withdraw from the work produced, simply not to appear or abstain in virtually all votes. in this parliamentary work, in which 38 legislative initiatives were discussed and 20 were approved, precisely in April last year, resulted in a number of relevant legislative amendments such as the approval of the so-called 'half-day' or the amendments introduced in parental leave, in particular the extension of the father's compulsory licence, measures recently implemented and in many cases still not properly evaluated. at the same time, the XIX constitutional government continued to work on several fronts that are absolutely relevant to its effects on the issue of birth: in combating unemployment, in promoting economic growth, in creating jobs, in expanding the daycare system, in promoting equality between men and women, in particular in the labour market. The topic had, from the outset, been treated in the 2013 Council of Ministers resolution and between 2012 and 2015 was led by three times to social consultation, with emphasis on the need for the adoption of measures to facilitate reconciliation between professional, personal and family life. Moreover, it was this same concern that led to the launch in October 2013 of a national campaign aimed at promoting a greater balance in the distribution of household and care tasks, which, continuing to fall in an unbalanced way particularly on women, naturally withdraws their availability to have more children. Of course, we need our attention to the situation of women with a career in companies and organizations that do not reach the decision-making places that they deserve to attain because of the opportunities that they may lose when, in situations of dilemma, they often opt for birth when they should not, in fact, have to eliminate one of these options from their lives. But women who wake up at five o'clock in the morning should be even more worthy of our attention. They leave home to clean the offices that others find clean and aired at nine o'clock. They left their children alone for two or more hours, trying to take care of themselves or taking care of each other until they arrived at school. These women carry with them the weight of the concern that this entails: they fall asleep in the buses that take them from the office to the next service; they work hours and hours and return at night, where everything, or almost everything, waits for them. With high participation rates in the labour market and mostly in full-time, society still expects, of them all, entrepreneurs, executives, domestic workers, factory workers, who have more children because the age pyramid is reversed, because the birth is very low. A lot of women are required, all women are expected. in fact, the causes of low births are several and very complex. The financial condition of families is, of course, relevant. Employment prospects that exist or do not exist, particularly for young people, the confidence they have or do not have in the development of the country and in their future are crucial to the decision to start or expand a family with children. But there will be no doubt to anyone that, having the benefit but also the hardest function in maternity, we must be able to ease the weight of the multiple tasks with which most of them are overburdened. According to the estimated average for OECD countries, more than 300 minutes per day of unpaid work falls on women's shoulders. This certainly does not help the decision to have the children they wish. Therefore, if we want to solve our demographic problem, rooted and serious, and consistently reverse the trend towards low birth rates and population growth, we must realize that the country needs to alleviate more the life of those who want to have children, especially by releasing women to what they legitimately aspire to, and also to have more children if that is their will. And we know that's the case in many cases. One of the conclusions that many studies have come to is that the desired birth of 2.3 is greater than the actual birth of 1.2 children. That is why we know that will exists. Moreover, it has already been underlined by the various benches and this is an encouraging conclusion. But all the rest must be done: remove one by one all the barriers that prevent the realization of this will, and this will only be achieved by a national strategy involving sovereignty agencies, social partners, authorities, organisations and companies, who must understand better and assume the importance of their role. With regard to the role of companies much more could be said but I leave only one topic. Progress has been made and we now have certainly more responsible companies, but it is also true that many of these companies with comfortable financial margins opt for gymnasiums and not for day care. They quickly choose to make a protocol with a sports club rather than an agreement with an IPSS with a social response to support for elderly or disabled people that facilitates the lives of families. The adoption of ad hoc measures which can help in a timely manner, either in the strengthening of the financial benefits of social benefits, or in the extension of various parental leave, are welcome and may have some positive effect on the perception by families of the existence of more favourable conditions for having more children. But it does not appear that in the crushing of cases are timely measures that produce a consistent, lasting and statistically expressive result. The country must adopt a true strategic plan to promote birth, which must, from the outset and in the first hand, belong to a government that is truly interested in taking that priority, which has not yet been realized in this government. If the PSD were to govern, it would now be implementing its programme, where precisely a set of measures were envisaged to respond to the demographic problem and promote birth, in line with the preeminence we attributed to this matter. We are in opposition and, in that condition, we will contribute to this debate, now and in the future, with the disappointment of those who have been able to put the issue at the heart of the political debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u118	Two Mrs are registered. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. Mrs Teresa Morais informed the Bureau that she wanted to answer together. To ask for clarifications, first of all, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u119	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Morais, a debate on birth policies cannot, in fact, be left out of the reality of working conditions, therefore, of the incomes of those who work. And, after four years of austerity, which have significantly reduced and to a level never seen only wages but also pensions, for example, in the case of grandparents, the outlook for the future, especially for younger generations, has been substantially destroyed. For example, those who have been outsourced for three or four years by a temporary company to earn the minimum wage do not, in fact, have worthy conditions of thinking, even in having a future with children, and there are thousands of people in this situation. When you level below the average wage value in Portugal, this future project is even more amputated. On the right, the CDS, but also the PSD, may not want to discuss birth without discussing the economic, social and labor model that they created in Portugal, shaking the responsibilities in this same model, because that would mean we have an account discussion here, which does not go to the bottom of the problems and spread the reality. It is not honest to do this debate without talking about, for example, the invitation to emigration made by the previous Government, particularly by the former Prime Minister, and it is already about half a million young people who have emigrated so far. It is not even honest to have this debate without talking about the policy of low wages and the promotion of precariousness. Even now, even with the measures that exist for birth in the Labour Code, for example, who has a precarious job, is in a temporary workplace or is paid with a false green receipt, does not have access to these measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u121	Therefore, we cannot spread this reality, and there are already tens of thousands of young people in this situation. It is not honest to do this debate without, for example, talking about the law of incomes and admitting that it was in fact a law of clearance. And it is not worth trying to continue the whitening of the measures taken so far which have affected the evolution of birth directly and indirectly, which has to do with work, with decent, well-remunerated and rights. Madam Member, one thing is clear: if there is no desire to reverse the logic of the low wage and the replacement of rights, we will hardly have any results in this matter. So there is the question: on what side are the PSD and CDS? on the side of the reversal of income cuts, the promotion of birth or, in fact, on the side of whom it is decided by cuts and the degradation of living and working conditions? It is that there can only be a broad strategic plan, on several fronts, to promote birth if there is indeed a general plan for society against precariousness and employment with rights and a decent wage. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u122	Also to ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal of the CDS today is to debate demographics, births and families. Of course, we can continue to have a non-debate or we can have a debate about my guilt and the economic model that brought us the troika and brought us four years of austerity and restrictive policy, or we can see that this is a specific problem, which needs specific answers, without prejudice to the importance of the underlying economic model. in fact, it is a specific problem that lacks a set of measures that, together and competitively, promote an environment favourable to the free choice of children, or more children,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u124	With the minimum wage, it won't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u125	...which corresponds to the desire of the Portuguese, according to the recently known data on this matter. I ask Mrs Teresa Morais, from the PSD, if she agrees with this vision, which we have presented here today, of approach to this specific problem with a set of sectoral, competitive and conjugated policies that eventually result in the work of a committee to monitor birth initiatives, which we believe to be the right way to progress on this issue, which, as I said, is vital and essential for this country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u126	In response to requests for clarification, Mrs Teresa Morais of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u127	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Isabel Pires and Mrs Ana Rita Bessa for the questions they asked me. in the case of Mrs Isabel Pires, I do not think she asked myself a question addressed to me, she made a comment, which, moreover, was not directly about my intervention but about the intervention of the CDS, and asked a common question to the two parties, of course there is at this moment a party that is proposing and there is another one that is discussing. We are not making proposals together. On the other hand, it refers to the « right». Let me tell you, Mrs. Member, that this is the bench of the Social Democratic Party. We do not like to be treated as 'the right' and if the Left Block does not care, every time we are generically included in the 'right' cake, we will treat the Left Block as the 'extreme-left' parliament. If you think that might be the case, we are more balanced in this debate. The honourable Member has her parliamentary group and I have my own; I do not treat her as a Member of the « extreme left», please do not treat me as a Member of the « right ». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u128	Is the PSD a center-left? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u129	With regard to the question he raises, which is to know which side we are on — and again, he asks the question as a whole — whether we are on whose side we are on whose side we are on whose side we are on whose side we are on whose side we have had a difficulty in recent months, and I assume that we will continue to have it, which is to be able to discuss the present and the future. It's just the ladies. Members of the current majority persist in discussing the past but discuss only the version they want from the past, do not discuss the truth of the past. [[PSD applause.]] If they discussed it, there were questions they didn't even need to ask, because they knew the answer. And so do they, but they realize they don't know her.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u130	No, I don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u131	The truth is this: there is no one, I know, who is in favor of the cuts in wages...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u132	I'd say!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u133	... and that it is not in favour of increasing family income. There's no one who's in favor of cuts in social benefits...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u134	Oh, no! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u135	...and that it is against the increase in social benefits. What was a responsible government, which had very serious budgetary limitations and which, for that reason, approved what was possible to approve and not so little — I repeat, and it was not so little! Let me remind you, for example, that, in the matter under discussion today, it was the former government that more significantly extended the public day care network and did so in a period of crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u136	Well remembered! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u137	It was also the former government that increased unemployment allowance for unemployed couples, and we were in a period of crisis. [[PSD applause.]] It was also the previous government, which had a debt of EUR 3, EUR 5 billion to pay from the National Health Service, which, despite all, increased to EUR 6, 5 million the Portuguese exempt from moderate rates. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u138	Who doesn't have a job contract, can't pay them!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u139	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I must tell you that much has done by the previous government with the constraints it inherited in 2011, has greatly supported families and has greatly supported organizations, particularly with the very large number of agreements with the IPSS and civil society organisations that have supported many thousands of families in need. We were in a period of national emergency and, nevertheless, we did so much, Mrs Deputies, that there was a report from the IMF — that institution that you cited when it suits you and also forget when it is appropriate — which came to say, at some point, that Portugal was the country that had been most progressive in its policies, despite the programme that it had to comply with, and that it spared the most disadvantaged,... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] ... because 20 % of the population who had the most paid the effect of the crisis, unlike the 20 % they had the least, who were the most spared during that period. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u140	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u141	So, ladies and gentlemen, on the question of which side we are on, I tell you which side we are on, if you have not yet understood. We are on the side of the progressive, responsible and consolidating replacement of the Portuguese economy, we are on the side of the reintroduction of income to people to the extent that the economy permits it, because no one can distribute what he does not have, and we are against all the demagogy and all the propaganda that the current government is proposing to everyone, even if the bill to pay everything is paid for by the next generations. It is on this side that we are, Mrs. Member. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I would like to say to you, as I have already said, that this debate is welcome, that the PSD launched this debate in 2014 with a report that, at the time, many people have devalued but, more day, less day, the game came to say about it. [[Now!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u142	This report led to an extended debate at national level. There were proposals that were not feasible at the time, and this was clearly stated, because the country's budgetary situation did not allow everything that was proposed there to be implemented immediately, but the horizon of the report was until 2035. This was precisely what I said here. We're not on a high-level jump sports test to see who puts the upper band to see if the others have legs to jump. We are in a background race and this background race is a national strategy that will lead us, over a few years, if not for decades, to solve the demographic problem that we have on the table. So we see with very good eyes and welcome the debate that the CDS proposed. We will examine the proposals one by one carefully, and we have done so. We are not as enthusiastic with each other, some put certain reservations, but here we are to do this debate, with all interest and seriousness. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u143	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that in 2014 Portugal recorded the lowest synthetic fertility index in the European Union, in the value of 1, 2 children per woman, but it is also true that, not being the decrease in the number of births a recent phenomenon, in the last four years the decline in fertility was greater than the fall in fertility recorded in the previous 20 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In other words, if between 1990 and 2010, the number of births fell 13 %, in the last four years more than 18 % fell. In view of this fact, how can the CDS want to seriously discuss the serious demographic problem facing the country and what we should do to solve it, when in the explanatory statement of the projects it presents does not make a single reference to what has happened in the past four years? Four years in which, and I repeat, births fell more than in the previous 20 years. Four years in which we passed from 100 000 births / year in 2011 to 82 000 in 2014. Four years in which at the dramatic fall of birth we have to add the hundreds of thousands of young people who have emigrated and who will not have their children in Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] How can the CDS, or whoever it is, want to seriously discuss the problem of birth without taking on this exceptional breakdown of the last four years in the context of the persistent decline in fertility that our country has recorded since the 1980s and without trying to identify the factors that explain this exceptional failure? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this exceptional breakdown is explained by the effects of the international crisis, combined with the political options of the previous Government, the expansionist austerity and the inevitability of the impoverishment of the country, in general, and families with children, in particular. The unprecedented fall of birth in such a short time is one of the most serious consequences of the failure of policies and strategy to respond to the crisis of the previous government, that the CDS was part of, and that, to recover, will only be able to recover in the long term. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS, it was on behalf of the expansionist austerity based on the principle of "cost what it costs" that the previous government, which the CDS was part of, cut wages, cut pensions, beat the records in the increase in taxes, cut social benefits and disinvestment in public services. And he did all this, and this was the option of the previous government, that the CDS was part of, being the Minister of Labour and Social Security of the CDS, when unemployment reached over 17 %, when each year the numbers of employment were reduced,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... when poverty reversed the trend of fall that had occurred in the previous 10 years and increased every year, in all groups, particularly severely affecting children, young people and families with children. That is why in this debate it is essential to ask what the previous government did, that the CDS was part of, in the face of the continued worsening of the country's social and economic situation, in the face of the worsening of all indicators that measure the impact of policies on families, before the numerous national and international alerts, including the institutions that took part in the troika, that it was necessary to weigh the austerity measures on the impact they had on people, families and children. The answer we all know. The former government, which the CDS was part of, continued to defend and continue to deepen the austerity of the "cost" and made the Constitutional Court the great obstacle to the policies and options of the Government, because they imagine prevented the previous government and the CDS from cutting everything they wanted to cut! [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why, sirs. Members of the CDS, Mrs Assumption Cristas, which is legitimate to ask where were the proposals presented by the CDS now in this debate when the CDS has been in government for the past four years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u145	They've been applied!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u146	What they did in the previous government, when the Minister of Labour and Social Security was the CDS, to the study coordinated by MP Asunção Cristos in 2007 on birth, which said, and I quote, «in fact, in a way often systematically and even inadvertently, the State promotes a set of policies that have the absurd effect of disincentive to birth. "? How does the CDS explain the systematic form, even if not inadvertent, because it had already studied the subject in 2007, how did it not ensure the mitigation of the impact of austerity policies on families and fertility? How do they explain that if the Member of the Christian Assumption and the CDS already considered, in the study I referred to, that licences and allowances — and I quote again — cannot be considered a decisive incentive for those families who want to have children or have more children, the essential of their proposals in this debate is exactly the licenses and a measure on family allowances?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u147	No, ma'am!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u148	And how do they want to be taken seriously when they try to prove your concern with the family and birth in the last government by giving examples of measures that have either never left the role, such as the measure of conciliation through partial employability, or which, by such a small impact that they have had, cannot be considered as good measures in supporting the family or birth, as is the case with the adjustment in family allowance for quarterly revision?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u149	What are your proposals?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS sincerely liked not to have to make this history in this debate in order to be able to discuss, firstly, the proposals presented in the context of what we should do and what our priorities should be to create the conditions that allow people and families to have more and more children they want and not only children they may have. however, because it ignores the CDS and seems to want to pretend, in this debate, that it has never been in the previous government, that it has never, in the previous government, had a Deputy Prime Minister, two ministers, one of them, as I said, of Work and Social Security, and several State Secretaries, since then the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs? Because the CDS wants to pretend and smooth the idea, in this debate, that the last four years have been absolutely normal at birth levels and simply enter into the structural trend of the decline in fertility, the seriousness and effectiveness of our discussion requires us to start by correcting the diagnosis that the CDS makes of the evolution of the decline in birth,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that is, as can be seen in the exhibition of reasons for the projects presented by the CDS, a partial diagnosis, little rigorous and wrong. by wanting to disguise reality, because he surely wants to disguise his responsibilities, the CDS makes a wrong diagnosis and fails in the priorities of the measures he presents. But if it fails in the diagnosis and priorities, the CDS also fails in the evaluation that makes it necessary to promote, and using the words of Mrs Assumption Cristas, "a broad parliamentary consensus" on the problem of birth and the policies that must be adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u151	And? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u152	It is true that, Mrs Cristian Assumption, there is already a broad parliamentary consensus in this House of the Republic on the seriousness of the problem and on the priorities in defining the policies that must be adopted. The CDS, like the PSD, has been out of this consensus. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u153	Shame on you, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u154	This debate is therefore an opportunity for your party, Mrs Cristian Assumption, to decide whether or not it remains out of this broad parliamentary consensus. I give three examples, Mrs. Deputies. There is a broad consensus in this House of the Republic on the obligation to correct and reverse the fall in wages and income available from families even this year and from this year onwards.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u155	You don't see the reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u156	The 2013 Fecundity Survey confirms the support of respondents for the adoption of measures to promote birth and the extent referred to above — and surely the CDS knows — is to increase the income of families with children. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our question, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS, is it just one: does the CDS want to remain out of this broad parliamentary consensus or is it available to review its position? Secondly, there is a broad parliamentary consensus in this House of the Republic that the policies most associated with birth — family support structures, labour legislation in the promotion of conciliation and economic support — do not work in the current context unless we associate these policies with the fight against precariousness and low-wage development model advocated by the previous government, that the CDS was part of. I no longer ask what proposal the CDS presents on this subject, but I ask how many times does the CDS refer to this problem in its proposals? And the answer is only one and it's clear: zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]] As was already zero in the coalition programme, which does not refer to the word « precariousness » or the words « value of wages ». on the contrary, the CDS presents in this debate measures such as that of the social valleys, which are no longer an incentive to decrease and devalue wages. Our question, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS, is it once again the same: does the CDS want to remain out of this broad parliamentary consensus or takes advantage of this opportunity to join the vast majority in this priority? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, there is a broad parliamentary consensus in this House of the Republic that the family coefficient is an unfair and unacceptable measure, because support for children can never be greater for children with parents who have higher incomes than children with parents who have lower incomes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As there is a broad parliamentary consensus that the correction of the family coefficient introduced by this Government will benefit more families and more children and more fairly. How can the CDS announce for this debate the desire of a broad parliamentary consensus on the subject and present the proposals it submits, when it knows that the family coefficient of the previous Government, that the CDS was part of, was not, is it not and will not be accepted by the parliamentary majority that already exists in this House today? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS has a very clear position in this debate: we do not support any package of proposals which is missing the priority to the stability of employment and incomes of families in general, and of young families in particular. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As we do not support proposals that ignore the central and essential involvement of the social partners. It is not possible to create an economic, labour and social environment favourable to families — or friends of families, as the CDS likes to say — with children, if we do not build policies aimed at supporting these families and promoting birth with the social partners and social dialogue. As we do not support, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS, nor do we contribute to false consensus, based on false diagnoses, which fail all priorities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PS, the deficit in demographics is one of the most serious deficits the country has to overcome, alongside the lack of qualifications and the lack of inequalities. The PS has in its Government Programme a country's economic and social development strategy where the issue of demography and birth are central. And, Mrs Teresa Morais, the PS is fulfilling its Programme, because it is the PS that is in government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The current parliamentary majority that supports the government wants to contribute, therefore, decisively, to reverse the fall of birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u157	Have shame! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u158	The 2013 fertility survey figures confirm that if we are able to approximate the number of children that people have of the number of children they want to have, we can reverse the decline trend of fertility. That is our challenge and responsibility as political parties and Parliament. PS has a program where support for families and birth is a priority. There is a parliamentary majority united in this priority. The question in this debate once again, Mr President. Members of the CDS, Mrs. Mrs. Assunção Cristas, is not whether or not the CDS wants a consensus on priorities in supporting families and births,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u159	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u160	...but yes, if the CDS will continue out of the broad parliamentary consensus of the current majority and government in support of families and births. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u161	What a poor and uninformed argument!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u162	Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, two Members have signed up to request clarifications. Would you like to answer separately or together?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u163	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u164	All right, Mrs. Deputy. You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u165	Mr President, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, I must say that when I saw her going up to the rostrum, I thought I would say, at the end of her speech: "Welcome to the debate! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Unfortunately, we note that, in the same way as in the past, the Socialist Party remains completely out of line with the policies of birth and definitely does not agree to a serious problem, which is demographic. [[PSD applause.]] As we have done in the past, we regret this lack of dialogue by the Socialist Party. When the PSD Parliamentary Group here presented a set of initiatives to be appreciated in all parliamentary committees and then, together with the CDS, it was able to bring concrete measures here to support families, children and births, essentially to remove obstacles to birth, the Socialist Party, on the contrary—and here I want to greet the other parties—it was the only one who did not cooperate and who was totally absent from this theme. at the time, we were six months from the end of a legislature, and the Socialist Party said that it did not intervene in the debate. But now, I would like to ask you, Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos: six months from the end of a legislature, do families have any problems? Six months from the end of a legislature, politicians don't work? And now, Mrs Deputy, at the beginning of a legislature, why does the Socialist Party, now government, not present concrete measures that are effectively able to solve this which is a structural and non-conjuncural problem? But there I can put the answer forward: in fact, the Socialist Party has already demonstrated that neither in the opposition nor in the government has an integrated strategy to deal with the problems and present solutions for birth. I would therefore like to remind you of some issues which in the previous Parliament were discussed, as I mentioned, at the initiative of this parliamentary group, with the PSD and the CDS, after a broad consensus, presented concrete measures that were adopted. I would like to say from now on that these matters which have been approved and which are in force are essentially in the sense of allowing the barriers to the families to have the children they want, because, as we know at this time, they do not, unfortunately, have what they want, but only those who can, under various circumstances, have, for income, for work, for matters of reconciliation between personal life and working life. So it was in this sense that we worked. But this is a matter that is not exhausted and not exhausted. So we are here today, once again, seriously, to debate, to continue to build and do more and better for birth, for families and for children. I want to leave very specific questions here to Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos. What do the honourable Member and the Socialist Party think about the changes made in the previous legislation, in which there was greater responsibility for companies in relation to parenthood? Do you think that these measures may or may not contribute to eliminating barriers to birth? What does the honourable Member think about setting up an interdisciplinary committee for birth? What does the honourable Member think about the 50% exemption on vehicle taxes for numerous families? It is important that we be able to understand this because you are in government and unfortunately have no strategy to combat this which is a serious problem of society. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u166	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u167	Mr President, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, Mrs Fertuzinhos, the honourable Member has come here to take note of the recognition by the PS of this "unprecedented fall of birth", forgetting that it was a problem that began in 1982, when we stopped restoring generations. The honourable Member has come to speak selectively and misinformedly about the past, but the PS does not play with concrete proposals. What are the specific proposals of the PS for this specific problem? Do you know what the answer is? It's zero, Mrs. Member! The honourable Member now has another opportunity to contribute with her party. Will the PS make possible the establishment of a possible committee to monitor the initiatives on birth and other proposals? Is the PS going to enable them? It's just that, Mrs. Member, it's not enough to talk, it's necessary to do. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u168	That's right! You need to do what you guys didn't do!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u169	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I believe that the best way to confront the PSD and, above all, the CDS, which promoted this debate, with the responsibility that they have for the impact of the policies they have taken and that were your choice in families and in births, is the assessment that the report of the Family and Family Policy Observatory ( OFAP) makes the policies of the previous Government in 2013, which, moreover, reflects much of what they already said in 2012. I will read only one small excerpt: « It is noted that since the current PSD/CDS-PP government has been in office in 2011 there has been no explicit national family policy... » [[P.S.'s applause.]] «... with long-term defined objectives and central programmes and bodies which protect it ». And this report continues, saying: "This situation is only mitigated by some initiatives carried out at local and regional level, dynamized by municipal chambers and parish boards, with the aim of supporting families in general and families most deprived of children in particular." Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not the PS. Who says so is the Observatory that makes the evaluation of family policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, the PS has no evidence to give any debate on support for families and births. If the honourable Member makes the history, the first Government that took on a specific set of family policies aimed at promoting birth was a PS government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the honourable Member knows, and I am not going to contribute to what seems to be a championship between the PSD and the CDS on whom the most measures are presented, on whom the most measures have been presented, this is not our championship. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Our championship, Mrs Deputy, is that of the effectiveness of the measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u171	What are your measures?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u172	That is why our measures are being taken, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — or I have not expressed myself properly, or the honourable Members. Members have not heard my speech, and priorities are clear. Today, it is no longer enough to continue investing in family support structures, in the conciliation of licences or in economic support. The dimension of the economic and social disaster of the past four years and also of the international crisis is that if we do not fight precariousness, if we do not increase the income of families, if we do not guarantee something that families have never had in the past four years, which is stability,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] ...the birth will not increase. I will finish, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, by saying that the Socialist Party will not support the creation of a possible committee to monitor initiatives on family and birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u173	Sure! Because you don't think this matter is relevant!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u174	And I sincerely believe that the CDS should have thought a little before asking that question, because the CDS, in the Ministry of Social Security, was part of the first government in our democratic history that has never been able to implement and operate any structure in the Public Administration linked to family affairs. It was the first time. This is the legacy of the CDS. The CDS therefore has no authority in this debate to require this House to do in the House what the CDS was unable to do in the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u175	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, we would like to ask here a few questions about the schedule that has been proposed to this House. First of all, Mrs Cristian Assumption, to make it clear from the PCP, we recognize that the issue of low birth has multifactorial causes, and never heard us say anything else. That is why, of course, there are economic, social and cultural reasons. But you cannot help but recognize, because this is undeniable, that employment issues — and right employment — and income issues play a key role in the family decision when it comes to deciding whether to have children or more children.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u177	No one said no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u178	And on that point, it is also a matter of revealing the perspective on this subject that the CDS-PP has said nothing about the role of the Working Conditions Authority in monitoring the fulfilment of maternity and paternity rights — and it will not have been by chance, Mrs Deputy — or on the need for full compliance by companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u179	The CDS-PP proposes something open!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u180	It is not about the pedagogy that companies should have; it is about compliance with the law and punishment in the case of their failure to comply. That is why we too would like to say, at the end of this debate, that it is not possible for us to discuss the issue of birth and the incentive to birth without discussing the need to strengthen the living conditions of families. And this necessarily requires a policy for the recovery of wages, the enhancement of social support and the guarantee of conditions of stability to families, which was all the opposite of what you did in the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u181	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u182	I will finish, Mr. President. I would just like to say that we will continue here to fight against the rights of motherhood and paternity, to defend the rights of families to have the children they wish in conditions of dignity, because that is the fundamental condition of a fight for a more just and developed country, and that is what we are also fighting for. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u183	Mr Amadeu Soares Albergaria has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: as this debate approaches the end, the PSD Parliamentary Group considers it useful to strengthen some ideas and to make two or three comments as a conclusion. The subjects we are discussing today — demographics, births and families — are about our collective future and are a problem that must be immediately tackled, under the penalty of exacerbating itself even more and causing unnecessary sacrifices to present generations and future generations in the medium term. We must use the present to safeguard the future. We cannot ignore the problem — that would be a very expensive mistake — nor can we use it as a political weapon. Unfortunately, the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Socialist Party chose to do so today in this debate. For the PS, perhaps the best birth policy is to bring the country to bankruptcy and even now we know that it also does not want it to be a possible committee to address these issues. This is proof that you have no concrete proposals to present on this subject, as you did not have in the previous legislation, having been absent from the debate, after we have set up a working group on birth. We can't stay for the beautiful speeches, Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos. We must move quickly—it is urgent! — the speech for practice. Every day that happens without anything being done this problem increases. Mr. President, the diagnosis is made and the situation is alarming. Statistical studies are useful and prove what any Portuguese can observe on their day-to-day basis. For example, just take the children to school to realize that the number of students has dropped dramatically and is decreasing from year to year. We can be led to think that this is a long-standing problem, to solve in the future, that is not for the present generation and that, therefore, should not be a priority in our concerns, but nothing else wrong! This must be what the Socialist Party thinks! To do this is not only to look after the future of new generations, but also to put our own future at risk. The effects of low births already pose many problems in the present, and we see the negative impact that is having on our education system or on the settlement of the territory. If nothing is done, it will all get worse: we do not guarantee generational renewal, we harm social cohesion, we question our model of society and we do not ensure the sustainability of our social security systems, education, health, the economic-financial system and territorial cohesion. Action is urgent and parties have an obligation to take these systems as priority. It is known that for the PSD, these systems are a priority, since in this Parliament, in 2013, a few days on the family and at its National Congress in Lisbon, in February 2014, marked this issue as one of the main of its political agenda. I remember, at the time, that, in considering our congress, some have devalued the issue, and today, some Members of the Socialist Party have again ironic this subject. Nothing more wrong! Time has come to give us reason and the PSD, as a great personalist and humanist party, has once again been in anticipation of a problem and the consequence of taking measures to deal with it. It therefore challenged civil society—a report was drawn up by Prof. Joaquim Azevedo—and involved all parliamentary committees to produce sectoral reports on the subject under discussion. In addition to the measures taken by the previous Government, it was possible to present a broad package of initiatives recommending the adoption of a cross-sectional set of measures to deepen the protection of children, families and promote birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u185	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u186	I will finish, Mr. President. As we have already said, these measures deserve to be reviewed, those that have not yet been and those that have been implemented should be implemented. So far, the course has been relatively positive. Some important measures have been taken, the matter has entered the political agenda and it is today a concern of all Portuguese, but the problem is still far from solved. If we know how to build an integrated strategy capable of mobilizing all sectors of Portuguese society, perhaps a problem that is pressing ahead with us can be solved. The PSD here will, as always, be part of the solution. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u187	For an intervention, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block today puts to the vote the increase in family allowance in the first three years. If this measure is approved, excellent. It will be good news that will come out of this debate for anyone who wants to have children and for those who already have children. The Block also puts to the vote today the strengthening of the fight against gender discrimination, in particular for pregnant women, with the strengthening of the action of the Act (the Labour Conditions Authority) and the SIT (the Labour Inspectors' Union ). We believe that this measure will be approved. If it's approved, great. It'll be an advance. On the right-wing initiatives, it was clear that we disagreed with the CDS on central issues. For us, it is not flexible labour laws that promote birth; it is not responsible for grandparents who promote the rights of parents and mothers; it is not multiplying protocols with private and discounts to companies that guarantee the public offer of day care and a public policy for childhood; it is not taking school hours to infinite that ensures that there is more time to live; it is not sending women home to work on part-time or telework that promotes equality. There are other areas where there is room for work, but this if the bills follow the same course as the others who are already in the Commission and who were discussed last week, particularly the Block. Do we have room and consensus to extend parental leave to 100%? If it's shared, then we move forward. Are we finally going to create a parental license for premature babies after so many times being denied on the right? So let's move on. Will we agree in two hours to reduce the working hours of the parents and mothers in the first two or three years of the children's life to be able to follow them? Let's move!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u189	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u190	It is true — and with this I conclude, Mr President — that a strategic plan to promote parenthood has three fundamental pillars which are extinct from the previous cycle: creating jobs, combating precariousness and recovering income. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u191	For an intervention, Mrs Edite Estrela has the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The so-called 'demographic winter' is a matter of great topicality and relevance, even one of the greatest challenges of the Western world. It is a matter that should be treated seriously and not with demagogy and opportunism, as did the CDS-PP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The CDS was in the government for four years and protected the folder of solidarity, employment and social security. To be taken seriously, the CDS-PP should have started by making meaculpa — which was not wrong with a Christian-democratic party — but preferred to put up with PP, populism. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u193	And with this, he passed an attestation of incapacity and incompetence to the government that he was part of. The attitude of the CDS in this debate has been this: « look at what I say and do not look at what I do». Mrs Christian Assumption, Mr Mota Soares, before we look at what you are saying today, we have to look at what you have done and should not have done and also for what you have not done and could do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese and Portuguese remember, they do not forget that the CDS has been part of the government that had the country's impoverishment as a development goal in the past four years. Not by chance, as has already been pointed out, during these four years of CDS-PP government there was a reduction in the number of births. It was an exceptional break! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u194	There was an acceleration of the birthbreak!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u195	Do you think you don't have a negative influence on the decision to have children who have broken family income? Mrs Teresa Morais, to speak the truth, should have said that with the PS governments, 30 000 new places were created at night and the 12 700 places that Mrs Teresa Morais referred to were the result of the policies that were followed by the PS governments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They took advantage of the work that was done by the PS government, but do not come 'to reap the praise' that do not belong to them! [[PSD protests.]] Portugal has a good law of parenthood, approved by a PS Government. The PS does not stick to the words, Mr. Amadeu Soares Albergaria.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u196	Stay, stay!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u197	PS works, PS does! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS has passed one of the best European laws on maternity and paternity and I say so because I know, I know the file well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u198	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u199	It was a law that extended the maternity and paternity leave, as well as increased its remuneration and favored the sharing of parental responsibilities. Do not come to call the name of the crisis in vain. You have followed these policies for ideological reasons and so much so that you have now voted against what the PS government wanted to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u200	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u201	I conclude now, Mr President. Changing policies, turning the austerity page, returning income to families, reducing working hours in public service to 35 hours, extending the daycare network, ensuring everyone's access to health and education, restoring social support, combating precariousness and unemployment is what the PS Government, supported by the majority left-wing parliament, is doing. And he's done more in four months than the PSD/CDS government did in four years for birth. It's a truth that it's hard for you to hear! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u202	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are coming to the end of the debate, but for us it should mean the beginning of the debate. In fact, this deserves a broad national debate with parliamentary groups — and with Members, certainly — but also with the social partners and representatives of employers and workers, an open debate for civil society, universities, foundations and a debate in which the government is also involved. Today, unfortunately, the Government has chosen not to participate, but this is the beginning of the discussion, of course, that the Government is welcome with ideas, suggestions and to effectively help us all to have understanding and consensus on matters as important as these. On the other hand, I think that no one would understand, who is out there, that in a matter like this Parliament did not have the ability to generate understanding, except on the concrete solutions, at least on the ability to have a serious, thorough, complete and comprehensive discussion. We have often heard even when the Prime Minister comes to this House, an appeal for a consensus. We have often heard that it is fundamental, at a time like this, to have the ability to generate understanding. We have often heard the Government and Mr President of the Republic say that in matters which are structural for the future of Portugal, political parties must have the ability to put aside some of their differences in order to find concrete solutions for Portuguese and families. There is perhaps no such important debate, a debate in which consensus is as necessary as this one we are now doing on the initiative and by the hand of the CDS. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I would like to say in a very concrete way to the Socialist Party that if we do not have the capacity to generate a consensus on this matter, most likely because of the responsibility of the Socialist Party, this will be a lost legislature, and that would be a truly tragic thing for many families in Portugal. The truth is that we could have come to this debate with accusations, we could have chosen to do this debate by recalling who put Portugal on the verge of bankruptcy in 2011, remembering who led Portugal to have to sign a memorandum of understanding which provided for the cut of pensions, the cut of wages, more than 700 million euros of cuts in social benefits, but we chose not to do so. We are not of those, like the Socialist Party, who think it was the troika that brought the crisis. We know very well that there have often been wrong policies in the past that have brought the troika, and this has undoubtedly generated a financial crisis, an economic crisis and a social crisis. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We could remember here that it was the Socialist Party that entered into the Memorandum of Understanding the freezing of the national minimum wage or, even, that social benefits such as, for example, maternity benefit should pay taxes, i.e. a cut of about 250 million euros only in that benefit, and that we, curiously, were able to avoid. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u204	We could come here to remember who frozen the minimum social and rural pensions that are taken by the poorest of the poor in Portuguese society or who ended up with the increase in unemployment benefit for unemployed couples who have children in charge, who was the Socialist Party, and now who restored it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And even we could have chosen to do this discussion by criticizing the current parliamentary majority of the left, which ended with a very important measure to stimulate birth, which is that of the family coefficient, i.e. to protect the Portuguese, families that have children and those who have more children. [[PS protests.]] We could have done the debate in this way, but we chose not to, because this debate is about demography, it is not about demagogy, as the Socialist Party obviously wanted to do. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This debate is about demography, it's about birth, it's about sustained economic growth, it's about social cohesion, it's about the sustainability of our social systems — social security, health, education — it's even about an effective idea of nation and sovereignty, because all these issues are, in fact, cross-cutting with the difficult demographic situation that Portugal is living and, unfortunately, is not an issue that has emerged in recent years. The CDS chose, in its first legislative agenda after its Congress, to bring a package of concrete measures, namely, on the reconciliation of family life and professional life, on taxation, on the social responsibility of companies, on social support, on education, on health, on the family. This is our priority. Today's priorities may be to change the name of the Citizen's Card to the Citizen's Charter, we respect it. They're not our priorities. Our priority is, indeed, to have the capacity to, overallly, structurally, with a set of measures in various areas and in several sectors, to try to respond to this challenge, which is not only Portuguese. Today, unfortunately, many countries in the European Union have exactly the same challenge. That is why it is not serious to say that the great responsibility for demographic breakdown in Portugal lies with the crisis. Of course, the crisis—now, the crisis in which the Socialist Party has placed us—was one of the great difficulties, one of the great engines for birth to fall in Portugal. But if it were just the crisis, Germany, France or Italy had no problems like we have in part because these problems are, from this point of view, unfortunately, very structural in the European Union. The only way we can try to react to this is with global initiatives, with initiatives that touch various areas and sectors. [[PS and BE protests.]] Today we realize that for the Socialist Party to have a serious discussion on this matter is not worth it. For the Socialist Party, it is not worth quoting the most recent studies that have come out. Still this week, an interesting study by the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation said that the Portuguese want to have more children and expect, on average, to have two and what the results of the study say is exactly now. This is the unique opportunity that we have to try, with a set of concrete measures, to stimulate and give the conditions to families in Portugal to have the number of children they want. But we have already realized that for the Socialist Party the only solution is to bet on domestic consumption, the only solution for all the problems of Portugal and the world is to bet on domestic consumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u205	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u206	I will finish, Mr. President. Let us see how the Socialist Party, which always says that it does not want to talk about the past—but we have seen here that it only knows how to debate the past—and that it is constantly appealing to consensus, today it goes here, with its vote, to promote consensus. for our part, we do not abdicate our priorities. for our part, we do not abdicate to be next to who effectively needs: the Portuguese families. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u207	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u208	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u209	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u210	About the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u212	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u213	Mr President, Mr Mota Soares asked to say that the government was not present. He knows that if the CDS wanted the Government to be present, he would have chosen another regiment figure for the debate on these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u214	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u215	Mr President, it is not surprising that Mr Mota Soares raised this issue when, as Minister of Labour and Social Security, he missed the debate that the majority then pointed out on the same subject. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u216	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u217	We all know the rules of these agendas and, therefore, the government can be present or not, depending on its will.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u218	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u219	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u220	Mr President, just to question you, because I think you will know and will be able to inform Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, whether or not it would be possible for the Government, in view of this important, relevant matter, to be present and whether or not it has a political assessment. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u221	Mrs. Member, we've got it. in the Chamber, there is the government bench and its members may be present or absent. Unless you are required to be present and then, in that case, you cannot be absent.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u222	But if you want and think important, you can be present!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u223	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. I'm asking the ladies. Members, please register, using the touch screen and, if it does not work, have the mouse as an alternative. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 202 presences, to which 4 are added (Mrs. Sónia Fertuzinhos and Pedro Delgado Alves, both PS, Amadeu Soares Albertaria, PSD, and Paulo Portas, CDS-PP ), making 206 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Mrs. Members, let us begin by voting, in general, the draft lein.o 189 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the IRS Code with a view to restoring the family quotient ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we are now going to vote, in general, on Bill No 190 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Benefits within IRC to companies that promote family responsible behaviour ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 191 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code by strengthening the legal protection of prohibited or disabled heirs ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 192 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code by establishing the supplementary application of the separation property regime ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] Mrs. Members, we are now going to vote, in general, on Bill No 193 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 176 / 2003 of 2 August, amended and republished by Decree-Law No 133 / 2012 of 27 June, and amends the disability allowance in the family allowance ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we will vote on a CDS-PP request for lein.o 194 / XIII projects ( 1. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, extending the enjoyment of the supplementary parental leave and the leave for assistance to grandparents ( CDS-PP ), 195 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code amends the exclusive parental leave of the father ( CDS-PP ), 196 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which increases the duration of the initial parental leave from the third child ( CDS-PP ), 197 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — First amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which establishes the prenatal parental leave ( CDS-PP ), 198 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which increases the duration of the initial parental leave for 210 days ( CDS-PP ), 199 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The tenth amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which establishes the allowance for child assistance in place of the allowance for breastfeeding or breastfeeding ( CDS-PP ), 200 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of the scope of the social valleys ( CDS-PP ), 201 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 amends the amounts of parental allowances and creates prenatal parental allowance and parental allowance for premature birth ( CDS-PP ) and 202 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CDS-PP ), which creates the parental leave for premature birth, without a vote for 30 days. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on several draft resolutions, starting with draft resolution No 237 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government increase from three to five cycles of assisted drug procreation treatments, shared by the National Health Service ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u224	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u225	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u226	Mr President, to inform us that we will deliver a statement of vote on draft resolution No 237 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u227	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 286 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create the guarantee plan for disabled children and young people ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 287 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create an incentive for a culture of corporate accountability ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 288 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish the Family Portal and a plan for its disclosure ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 289 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Flexibility of daycare hours through social security cooperation agreements, incentives to be set up by companies and promotion of agreements between childcare establishments and employers ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 290 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee for monitoring initiatives on family and birth ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for setting up conditions for us to continue our work and we shall finish this session in good order. We now vote on draft resolution No 291/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate telework ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[Oh!Oh, my ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u228	We are now voting on draft resolution No 292 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consensual review of the school calendar ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 293 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Consecrate 31 May as the National Day of the Brothers ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are close to the end, so I ask you to allow us to continue our work with the basic conditions. We are now voting on draft resolution No 294 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure and promote differentiation in access to housing and support to assign dependants and spouses to all existing programmes or to create ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 295 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend the legal regime for access to financial support Port 65 — Rent by Youth ( Port 65 — Youth ) ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u229	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u230	Mrs Rita Rato, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u231	Mr President, it is in order to inform the Bureau that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the previous votes. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u232	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u233	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that the PS Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on all the votes made so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u234	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. José Moura Soeiro, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u235	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that we will deliver a statement of vote on the votes that have been made so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u236	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. with regard to draft resolution No 281 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Integrated birth incentive measures ( PCP ), there will be a partition in three blocks, requested by the PS, of several points and subpoints of the project. First we shall proceed to the vote on points 1, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.6, 4.5, 6, 7.1 and 8.2.1. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u237	This vote shows the difference in position!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-05.u238	We now vote points 2.5, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 7.4, 7.5 and 8.2.4. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on points 2, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.4, 5, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 7, 7.2, 7.3, 8, 8.1, 8.2, 8.2.2 and 8.2.3. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP were adopted.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 296 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Parentality protection measures ( BE ). The PS requests that point 1 be voted on first, then point 3 and finally the remaining points, i.e. point 2, 4 and 5. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on point 1. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] Finally, we voted points 2, 4 and 5. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda today. We will meet tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the following agenda : firstly we will have an up-to-date debate with the PSD marking under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on private and cooperative education. in point 2, we will generally have the discussion of Bill No. 18 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — regulates access to administrative information and reuse of administrative documents, including in environmental matters, transposing Directive 2003/4 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on public access to environmental information, and Directive 2003/98 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 as amended by Directive 2013 / 37 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the reuse of public sector information. in point 3, we will discuss jointly draft resolutions 25 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Removal of tolls at A23 ( PCP ), 33 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of tolls at A24 ( PCP ), 34 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of existing tolls and non-introduction of new ports into the ex-SCUT of the transmountain motorway ( A4 ) ( PCP ), 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by abolishing the collection of tolls on the Via do Infante, 43 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Removal of tolls at A25 ( PCP ), Bill No 73 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the exemption from tolls on A22 ( Via do Infante ) ( BE ) and draft resolutions 224 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reduce by at least 50 % the cost of tolls in A22 until the works of EN125 are completed ( CDS-PP ), 46 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates at A23 ( BE ), 272 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates at A4 ( BE ), 273 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates in A24 ( BE ), 274 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates in A25 ( BE ), 283 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the reduction of the value of tolls on inland and road roads without adequate alternatives to mobility and safety ( PS ), 284 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by abolishing toll rates on the transmountain highway A4 ( The Greens) and 285 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the port collection system in the former SCUT ( PSD ). in point 4, the projects of lein.os 98 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extends the supply of programme services in TDT, ensuring adequate technical conditions and price control ( BE ), 185 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensure universal access and broadcast of all public television service channels via Digital Terrestrial Television ( TDT ) ( PCP ), in conjunction with draft resolutions 282 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — improving the coverage and extension of the supply of programme services on Digital Terrestrial Television ( TDT ) ( Os Verdes ) and 298 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prepare for the extension of the supply of programme services on Digital Terrestrial Television ( PS ). in point 5, the proposed law No 16 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed in general ( 1 ). ( a ) — Scheme of the State's financial responsibility in providing health care to the regional health service of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, by the national health service and the principle of reciprocity ( ALRAA ). In point 6, the discussion of petition No 24 / XIII ( 1 ) is followed. ( a ) — Submitted by Ivo Miguel Barroso Pego and José Duarte de Almeida Ribeiro and Castro and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to simplify the legal requirements for the presentation of legislative initiatives of citizens and popular referendum initiatives, as well as the consecration of deadlines for their assessment, together with the projects of lein. 136 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ( Citizens'Legislative Initiative ) ( PCP ), 167 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June 2003 regulating the legislative initiative of citizens ( second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June 2003 ) ( BE) and 188 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ( Citizens'Legislative Initiative ), simplifying the procedures and requirements laid down therein ( CDS-PP ), as a general rule, draft deliberations No 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes the establishment of a working group for the study and implementation of an electronic delivery mechanism for the legislative initiatives of citizens ( CDS-PP ) and draft laws No 208 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June to make the legislative initiative of citizens ( The Greens ) accessible, 210 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June by reviewing the requirements and procedures for the delivery of legislative initiatives by citizens ( PS ), 212 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June, reducing by 20 % the number of signatures necessary for the submission of legislative initiatives by citizens ( PSD ), 213 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 15 -A / 98 of 3 April ( approved the Organic Law of the Referendum System ), reducing by 20 % the number of signatures required for the presentation of popular referendum initiatives ( PSD ). in point 7, the agenda, without discussion times, of the motions for resolutions 1 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed on 8 April 2015, and 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Sultanate of Oman to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in Lisbon on 28 April 2015. Finally, there will be a scheduled vote at 12 noon, but some of these points may be discussed after the vote has been taken. I wish everyone a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 35 minutes.]]
