ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 9 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of authority to open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make an amendment to our agenda, moving point two to point one. That is, we will begin by discussing, in general, draft law No 156 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Safeguarding the regularisation of livestock and other holdings by extending the period laid down in Decree-Law No 165 / 2014 ( PS ). Mr Santinho Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill presented by the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group today concerns safeguarding the regularization of livestock, industrial or other holdings, extending the period set out in Decree-Law No 165 / 2014. It is the duty of a diligent legislator to pay attention to the signs that come from society and to respond to these signs effectively and fairly. On 30 May 2014, the Assembly of the Republic adopted Law No 45 / 2014 authorising the Government to introduce provisions of a special nature concerning the system of counter-ordination in order to create an exceptional and extraordinary period of regularisation to apply to various types of establishments, including livestock holdings. in the use of the legislative authorisation on 5 November 2014, the aforementioned decree introduces an exceptional regularisation regime for establishments and holdings identified in Article 1. the period of one year from the date of entry into force of that diploma, January 2015. Requests for regularisation of interested parties depended on the publication of a joint portal of members of the government in the areas of agriculture, economy, environment, spatial planning and energy, which only took place on 9 March 2015 with Portaria No 68 / 2015. This delay irreparably affected requests for regularisation during 1. the quarter of 2015, objectively shortening the period of one year planned for this purpose. The need to issue opinions by the authorities, in particular the municipal assemblies, which have very spaced sessions throughout the year, on the basis of the recognition of the municipal public interest in the regularization of the activity also impaired the useful time to submit these requests for regularization. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Confederation of Agriculture (CNA ) recently requested the Government more time for the legalization of livestock, rightly considering that part of the period granted by Decree-Law No 165 / 2015 was consumed by the Administration itself in the preparation of the scheme, causing further delay in the course of the licensing of livestock holdings. And, in the midst of a crisis in the European dimension sector, the approval of this extension of deadlines now has a strong impact on production. Only one law that truly achieves its objectives is that it is a useful and just law, a law that serves people and the economy. in a logic of dynamizing economic activities it is necessary to facilitate the regularization of establishments and holdings which have not been started or have been suspended for more than one year, but which have facilities, initiated or terminated, now inactive due to various situations, such as insolvencys, which have prevented the beginning or continuation of the activity, the extension of the period provided for in Decree-Law No 165 / 2014 until 2 January 2017 and the extension of the scope of its application, which is fully justified. Effectiveing social, economic and environmental rights in all circumstances means that the law adapts to the reality it serves. That is the objective of this legislative initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u3	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Sectoral legal regimes regulating economic activities, whether livestock, industrial, research and exploitation of mineral masses or waste management operations, have for several years had successive exceptional procedures for regularization. However, these procedures have not been fully effective in most cases due to incompatibility with the existing territorial management instruments, in particular the municipal planning plans of the territory, and it is often found that the provisional securities issued fall on procedural grounds and to which they are not concerned. The impossibility of regularization or licensing of these units often makes it impossible to obtain the improvement of its environmental performance or the realization of investment projects. The former Government therefore sought to find an exceptional and transitional legislative framework which would standardise the regulatory procedure applicable to this set of establishments and allow, on the one hand, to expedite these licensing procedures and, on the other hand, not to call into question the fulfilment of all legal requirements, including environmental requirements. Thus, it was sought to gather into a single legal instrument, the Decree-Law No 165 / 2014, a vast set of obligations, until the date which have been dispersed by the diplomas, legal and applicable to each type of activity and create an opportunity for the agents involved to promote the correction of situations of social, territorial and environmental liabilities, relaunching their economic activities on a sustained basis. however, it remains at this date a still significant set of units for licensing, in particular livestock, and is therefore of the most fundamental justice which provides for an additional period for the regularization of these economic activities, a large part of them in low-density territories and therefore with a huge impact on the dynamisation of these territories essential for the maintenance of employment in these regions. The CDS will therefore vote in favour of this bill. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u5	Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u6	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, today's debate, promoted by the PS, brings us an innovation: it does not intend to revoke, reverse or cancel an initiative taken by the former Executive but only a proposal for an extension of a one-year term to regularize establishments and farms, whose industrial or agricultural activity lacked a process of adaptation, in terms of planning and territorial management and sustainable land use, approved by Decree-Law No 165 / 2014 of 5 November. What is at stake in this initiative is the extension of the transitional period of regularisation, which ended on January 2, for another year, until January 2, 2017, which may seem sensible. However, we do not fail to notice that this postponement comes with about four months of delay, i.e. it could already have been suggested, avoiding the legislative instability for the activities that are in this process of regularization. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u7	With this initiative, the PS uses to extend the scope of application to cover in this extraordinary regularisation period those facilities which have been returned since 2014, which are intended to be re-used for their industrial or agricultural activities. This bill comes as a result of what the PSD has been defending and implementing as a government. Moreover, the creation of this regime, which is now intended to extend over time, was the legislative realization of creating a favourable context for investment and the development of activities whose licensing, or even its extension, was essential for the local and national economy. It was the case of many cattle and pigs farms that were heavily conditioned before this possibility of regularization, modification or expansion. Thus, environmental, social and economic interests and the interests underlying the planning of the territory were considered. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It would take the rest of the government to continue the past work, to drive and promote the productive sectors, such as agriculture and industry, giving them the best conditions for their competitiveness and viability, rather than the constant revocation and guilt. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u8	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by taking into account the table in which this bill is presented to us. The crisis of pig farming and milk production is caused by oversized production capacity installed in the European Union and by the behaviour of large distribution, more than by the Russian embargo or by the withdrawal of traditional export markets, which we have not ignored either. The large distribution forces prices to be paid to producers in the national territory when they buy massive foreign port meat, estimating that the cost of production goes around 1, 5 euros/ kg of meat, and that same kilogram of meat is currently sold in large hypermarkets for only 1 euro. This is an absolutely inappropriate situation. However, without a strategic regulation aimed at a fair distribution of costs and profits, from production to distribution, the liberalised market, as is currently the European market, will always require a frenetic run down the prices paid to the pig farmer. It is necessary that the Portuguese Government should fight in the European Union for a concerted action supported by the Community budget for selective reduction of production capacity installed and for effective aid for the transformation of the sector. There is also a need for more stringent monitoring of the entry of foreign pigmeat and compliance with labelling requirements, which has been in force since this month. Moreover, cattle farming, particularly the one devoted to milk production, undergoes a profound crisis, which has been tackled here more than once. In addition to all the palliative measures which have been adopted in the milk sector, the adoption of quotas at European Union level is the measure which is necessary, as in other words, this House has well understood when it adopts with a large majority a draft resolution in this sense, brought here by the Left Block. It is therefore about this framework of deep crisis, where domestic pig farmers and milk producers struggle daily for survival, which still pose more threats to the maintenance of some of their holdings by which they are not yet regularised. It is true that the owners of these livestock farms should have settled the irregular situation in time. They did not take advantage of the normal period in which they should have regularized them, but they should have done so, nor took advantage of an additional extraordinary period granted to them, despite the temporary and procedural limitations already mentioned today and also mentioned in the explanatory statement of the Socialist Party bill. Nor do we forget the grave environmental liabilities resulting from many livestock farms, problems of varied origin, whose dependence is dragged into too much complacency and delay. There are populations living torments, with bad smells and open sky occurrences in water lines, resulting from occasional spills, more or less clandestine. We cannot ignore it and we do not ignore it, but the situation is indeed extreme and therefore extreme decisions are required, although, here and there, with a very heavy environmental price. Moreover, when we rightly point out the neoliberalism of the institutions of the European Union...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u10	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u11	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, when we rightly point out the neoliberalism of the institutions of the European Union as the responsible for the economic ruin of national production, we must also take into account the environmental liabilities we have to bear so that farms in Portugal can still survive. It is in these circumstances, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in favour of the bill brought here by the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u12	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies : The first livestock activity regime, known as the REAP, was established in 2008. The former Government created the New Scheme for the Exercise of Agricultural Activities (NREAP), involving the decision of a municipal body in the case. These schemes have sought to respond to the need for legalization and adequacy to the existing rules of the existing livestock holdings in our country. The lack of compliance on the part of livestock farms has very diverse origins: one because they have never complied with these rules; another because, by their location, they can never meet them; others because they have buildings built outside urban centres and have been absorbed by their growth. As with differentiated genesis, the solution of problems will also have different character. Among the farms that need regularization, there will be some where the process is quite simple, others where it will be complex and others where such regularization will be impossible. According to the farm legalization data from SNIRA (National Information System and Animal Registry), only 67 % of the farms are legalized, and some 30 000 farms are still legalized — I repeat, 30 000 farms! Most farms have a provisional title, which begins to expire without the problems being solved. Despite the various regularisation schemes created, many are still the farms that need to do this process. The failure of previous regimes is associated with procedures, lack of incentives and, in some cases, lack of support. The lack of regularisation of support poses not only an environmental problem but also a problem of inequality in operating costs between those who comply with all the rules and those who do not. Failure to regularise these problems could eliminate many farms, including smaller farms, with greater difficulties and conditions for the necessary adaptation. The CFP follows the proposal of the PS Parliamentary Group in which the end of the deadline for the submission of the regularisation process for the beginning of 2017, with a slight adequacy of criteria. The CFP believes that the State has an important responsibility in this area until many of these farms have been established in the eyes of all in a given type of facility. We follow the proposal and we equalize our expertise in trying to improve the system, in particular in order to ensure support and follow-up to smaller farms and with greater difficulty in monitoring the processes. The position of the CFP, expressed in 2014, at the time of discussion of a legislative authorisation on the subject, maintains the whole of the day. At the time, we said: "We have no doubt about the need for regularisation of farms. It must happen, seeking to safeguard economic activity, safeguarding the rights acquired always in respect of the instruments of ordination as a means of defending the resources of the country. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u14	Mrs. Members, as there are no more entries on this agenda item, we can move on to the next item, which is part of the joint discussion of draft resolutions n. 161 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthening and extending the National Vaccination Programme ( BE ), 254 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the National Vaccination Programme ( CFP ) and 259 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a) — On updating the National Programme for Vaccination (The Greens). To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Vaccination Programme in Portugal is over 50 years old and is certainly recognized by all of us as a success case. It is a case of success because it has allowed to reduce mortality, it is a case of success because it has allowed the control of numerous diseases that have so far spread uncontrollably in our country and it is a case of success that we have to preserve and make even more robust. That is why the Left Block is presenting the proposals that are being put forward today, to ensure that the technical, material and financial means necessary for the National Vaccination Programme to be developed without any restriction and to allow the extension of this same Programme to other vaccines and the fight against other diseases. in recent years, especially in the last four years of austerity, we have seen several episodes of the rupture of stocks of numerous vaccines. For example, we talk about the vaccine against tuberculosis, which is often exhausted. Often, the previous government promised to restore stocks within one week, the next week, but this week was never coming, because the stock was always broken. Regarding other vaccines, such as against diphtheria, tetanus, seizure cough, there were also episodes of rupture, especially in health centers in the country, which prevented the vaccination of thousands of children at the age at which they should have been vaccinated. in the same way, the former government has moved forward with the proposal to remove the tuberculosis vaccine from the National Vaccination Program, even knowing that in recent years, for example, in 2013 and 2014, more than 2000 new cases of tuberculosis were reported per year. What the Left Block says is that it is necessary to avoid these stock breaks and therefore a allocation of funds is needed. It is necessary to ensure that vaccines reach people, children, and it is necessary to ensure that the National Vaccination Programme does not diminish, does not decrease and, on the contrary, is larger and more robust. We therefore not only do we not accept the withdrawal of the vaccine against tuberculosis, as we propose the extension of the Programme to other vaccines. For example, we propose enlargement for the boys in the vaccine against the human papilloma virus. This vaccine is already administered to girls and is very effective in combating cervical cancer, but let's not forget that this virus also has a lot of implications for the health of boys and men, from genital candidylomas to various neoplasias and cancer. Therefore, this vaccine, being administered to boys, also prevents the occurrence of these diseases and controls the spread of this virus. likewise, we propose the inclusion of the rotavirus vaccine. Rotavirus is one of the main causes of acute pediatric gastroenteritis, very common in children up to five years old, and it is perfectly avoidable if this vaccine is administered on time. In addition, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal of the Left Block is to ensure that the National Vaccination Programme reaches all people and that it becomes even more robust and an even more capable tool for disease control and to ensure public health in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u16	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group today brings up an initiative aimed at strengthening the National Vaccination Programme. The Directorate-General of Health considers that vaccines improve people's health and well-being, contribute to the efficiency and sustainability of health services and are a development factor. The vaccines constituted a civilizational conquest in the protection of children and young people. For example, in Portugal, and according to the Directorate-General for Health, elimination of diphtheria is the result of vaccination. Plans or programmes should be appropriate and updated to accompany scientific, technological and social development. Now, the investigation has developed new vaccines that, in view of the proven evidence and the benefits associated with them, originated opinions from specialists who advocate their integration into the National Vaccination Program. The project now presented is built on that assumption. We therefore advocate that the rotavirus vaccine should be included in the National Programme in order to prevent the emergence of acute gastroenteritis, which is a very common infection in the early years of life. The human papillomavirus, best known by HPV, is responsible for benign lesions and malignant neoplasias with high incidence. Therefore, since 2008 it has been integrated into the National Vaccination Program the vaccine against human papillomavirus. However, it is only indicated for young people between the ages of 10 and 13. More recent studies point to the need to be extended to girls and young people up to the age of 25, so we propose its enlargement in this draft resolution. This draft resolution also provides for an evaluation of the clinical benefit for the inclusion of the vaccine against meningitis B in the National Programme and for the creation of an extended technical and scientific commission that includes the public health policy component to monitor and monitor the implementation of the National Programme in a continuous manner. The Directorate-General for Health points out, and I quote, that « Vaccinal coverage in 2014 continued with high and adequate levels to confer group immunity, (...) ». Despite these data, information on the lack of vaccines in the National Health Service is recurrent, a situation which we defend must be combated and therefore we propose that the implementation of the National Vaccination Programme in force be ensured to all children and young people, so that adequate human, technical and financial resources are allocated. But it's not enough, Madam President and Mrs. Members, providing the National Media Vaccination Programme, it is important that substantive measures be taken to reduce external dependence on the provision of vaccines, ensuring availability and predictability of stocks. With this initiative, the CFP aims to strengthen public health and also further strengthen the path to disease prevention and health promotion that should be followed by the National Health Service. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u18	To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today present to the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution which aims at what we have called "updating the National Vaccination Programme", so that it will actually become more effective. Three assumptions were based on this draft resolution which The Greens bring to Parliament today. First assumption: the fact that the National Vaccination Programme is an instrument that guarantees better health standards and indicators, is fundamental to preventing diseases and even extinguishing diseases. Secondly, it is also a factor in the application of the principle of equality and non-discrimination, because, because of the integration of vaccines into the National Vaccination Programme, all citizens are entitled to this vaccination, thus applying the principle of universality, and in this way people are not discriminated primarily because of their economic condition, which makes the Programme extremely relevant. Third assumption: there are scientific advances, discovered new vaccines, and, therefore, how we should put scientific advances in the service of Humanity, it is essential that the National Vaccination Program is not seen as a factor or a stagnant instrument but rather as an instrument in constant updating due to the effectiveness that can be attributed to these new discoveries to public health of populations. in this regard, Mrs and Mrs. Members, The Greens present a draft resolution that will, firstly, lead to the extension of the vaccine against the human papilloma virus, primarily known as HPV. Like some of you. Members should remember, The Greens in 2007 brought a proposal for the integration of HPV vaccine into the National Vaccination Programme to the Assembly of the Republic, in a pioneering way, because we wanted to contribute to combat cervical cancer, which victimises so many women in Portugal. Here was science telling us that there was a factor that could extinguish this cancer, and the Greens felt it was their obligation to bring the proposal to the Assembly of the Republic in order to create effectiveness in combating this disease. In 2007 the Greens project was rejected, but we are aware that it was a fundamental contribution to raising awareness of this House and the government from then on to the importance of introducing this vaccine into the National Vaccination Program. And the truth is, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2008, this vaccine was integrating the National Vaccination Programme. Knowing what we know today, what do the Greens come here today? They propose that this vaccine be extended, on the one hand, also to young males, because, in fact, this virus also has male implications, and, on the other hand, to young females beyond the age of 13. We also propose that it be extended to 25 years so that the greatest possible universe can be covered, bearing in mind that many girls have not been covered and have already exceeded the age of 13. On the other hand, The Greens, as part of their proposal to update the National Vaccination Program, also propose the integration of the vaccine against rotavirus in this Program, preventing many cases of suffering and death associated with diseases such as acute pediatric gastroenteritis. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that here is a proposal that should deserve the unanimity of this House, in the sense that we all contribute to the promotion of public health and, in this particular case, to put science to the service of humanity, covering the whole population, in accordance with the principle of universality, and freeness, which is inherent in the National Vaccination Programme, so that everyone can have access to what benefits their health and that of others. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u20	For an intervention by Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The defence and promotion of public health have always been a priority for the PSD. The PSD/CDS governments have waged to prevent the disease and significantly increased the country's vaccination coverage despite the difficulties caused by the 2011 bankruptcy. Portugal has today the best vaccine coverage in Europe and the PSD has contributed and much to this reality. In 2012, the Government carried out a free influenza vaccination programme for the population over 65 years of age, which allowed the provision of more than 2 million vaccines in winter 2014 alone, increasing the coverage rate to more than 62 % compared to 48 % in 2011. The Government then included in the National Vaccination Program the conjugated antipneumococcal vaccine, against pneumonia, meningitis and septicemia, and the vaccine against the human papilloma virus. The first vaccine, by becoming free for children, saved about 200 euros to families and the second vaccine contributed to Portugal having one of the best worldwide outcomes in terms of HPV vaccination, one of the causes of cervical cancer. In August of last year, following a proposal from the PSD and CDS, the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 105 / 2015 was approved, recommending to the Government the inclusion of the anti-pneumococcal vaccine in the National Vaccination Programme, which the former Government has already done, and the study of the possibility of inclusion in the same Program the vaccination against pediatric gastroenteritis caused by rotavirus. This Parliament resolution was not adopted unanimously only because the Communist Party and the Left Block abstained in its vote. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u22	Today, these parties and the Greens propose the inclusion in the National Programme for Vaccination of the Vaccination against Rotavirus and the extension of this Program to the vaccination of male individuals against the human papilloma virus. For PSD, this is still the time of the government to study the possibility of inclusion of rotavirus vaccine in the National Vaccination Program, thus complying with the Resolution approved by this Assembly eight months ago. For us, the decision to include a particular vaccine in the National Vaccination Program is essentially scientific and non-political,... [[Protests of PCP Members.]] ... just as scientific should be the decision to extend the target audience to a given vaccine. They must be specialists in analyzing the effectiveness and safety of vaccines and not any ideological agenda of a party imposed them. The PSD advocates the continuation of a National Program for Universal and Free Vaccination, based on scientific rigor as a form of disease prevention. The PSD will continue to respect scientific decisions and studies contrary to what the former PS government did when Ana Jorge was Minister of Health, who made mucosa ears according to the Directorate-General of Health and refused to include the anti-pneumococcal vaccine in the National Vaccination Program. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u23	We therefore hope that the current government will act, solely and exclusively, on the basis of scientific evidence and not moved for any reason other than the defence and promotion of the health of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u24	For an intervention, Mrs Eurídice Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Programme of Vaccination, which completed half a century last year, has been an invaluable instrument of control and even of the extinction of diseases. Free and universal access to a scientifically selected set of vaccines democratized its application and revealed a clear development factor, expressed in a path of positive differences in both individual and collective protection. To sum up, the three motions for resolutions under discussion are essentially aimed at recommending to the Government both the updating of the National Vaccination Programme, through its extension to new vaccines and target population, and ensuring that there will be no stock breaks that call into question universal vaccination. According to the Directorate-General for Health, the National Programme for Vaccination is regularly updated, given the evolution of the epidemiological situation of diseases preventable from vaccination in our country, the development of existing vaccines, the marketing of new effective and safe vaccines and their availability in the Portuguese market. These updates are not supported by opinions of the Technical Commission for Vaccination, and protection in the decision-making process faces a growing complexity in the face of the development of scientific and technological knowledge and changes in the pattern of diseases as well as the increasing costs of its application. Having said that, we are in favour of putting recommendations to the Government first for prior technical evaluation processes on the enlargement or updating of the Programme. One of the recommendations that is currently being reviewed by the Technical Commission is the strategy for vaccination against human papilloma virus infections, since a vaccine of nine valences is available on the market, the proven effectiveness of which greatly increases the spectrum of protection against oncological diseases. It therefore seems to us that, in this context, the most reasonable one would be to wait for this technical opinion, of course, acting in accordance with what its recommendations are, thus constituting the political decision with the most unsuspecting technical and scientific basis. As regards the guarantee of non-breakdown of stock that question the recommended universal vaccination scheme, the PS agrees at all with them. However, it should be noted that, according to information provided by the World Health Organization to all countries in the European region, this situation is likely to be repeated over the next decade due to the increased demand for vaccines worldwide and the adaptation of new manufacturing methods required internationally, with a perfectly inadequate relationship between supply and demand. Obviously, in view of this scenario, which is worrying, attention has to be redoubled and we know that it is already being. Finally, we wanted to emphasize here and today, in front of the House, what are the inalienable purposes of our Government Programme, with regard to health policies, in particular the aspects related to the disease prevention and health promotion strategies that can contribute decisively and, I quote, "A new ambition for public health". [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u26	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Infant mortality is one of the main indicators of development and well-being of a society and it would be appropriate here today to remember that it has continued to descend in recent years, in full crisis and with so many contingencies for the Portuguese, the result of various interventions by the previous government. Portugal has experienced an improvement in the indicators of infant and neonatal mortality in recent decades, and today, in fact, one of the lowest rates in the world. For this purpose, the introduction of the National Vaccination Program in 1965, an indispensable instrument for improving the public health of Portuguese people was essential. In 1970, 53 live births died in every 1000 before they reached one year of age and 62 before they reached five years. Two decades ago 24 live births died in every 1000 before they reached one year of life and in 2010 the rate was 3, 7 per 1000. Only between 2004 and 2006 the mortality rate in Portugal decreased 13,2 %. For infant and neonatal mortality, several factors contribute, highlighting the poor neonatal conditions, poor nutrition and infectious diseases. Among us, the improvement of indicators resulted in a combination between a plan to nine years, indicated in the 1980s, with the creation of health centres networks, the specialized transport of newborns and the rise of vaccination rates. This development must continue and we must not accommodate the results achieved. Only the constant pursuit of progress, the refusal of immobilism and the pursuit of excellence allow us to achieve results that we can all be proud of. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u28	It will never be too much to remember the constant principle of the National Vaccination Program, according to which vaccination, in addition to personal protection, also brings benefits to the entire community, because when most of the population is vaccinated, the transmission of the disease is stopped. Mr. President and Mr. And Mrs. Members, the National Vaccination Programme has been updated in recent years, with the introduction of new vaccines, such as HPV and the anti-pneumococcal vaccine, for which the CDS has presented various legislative initiatives, however approved, but not always accompanied by all the benches. And here, it'll be worth remembering. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u29	It should be noted that the introduction of new vaccines in the National Vaccination Programme is dependent on a favourable opinion by the Technical Vaccination Commission, which is the entity responsible for studying and evaluating the various national and international recommendations, as well as the cost/benefit of introducing new vaccines in the National Vaccination Programme. Thus, the CDS understands that, regardless of the vaccines currently under discussion and the evidence already available on the benefits of these vaccines, it is important that the evaluation of their cost/benefit be made with the exemption and credibility of the responsible entity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u30	Therefore, we will respect the technical evidence and recommendations of the competent entities. And, in fulfilling the assumptions we have already pointed out, while maintaining the principle of the greatest benefit to the people and the improvement of public health, the CDS recognizes the value of these proposals that go, in fact, to meet the concerns that we have long manifested and that many have refused.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u32	We will not assume positions that we previously criticized in other benches. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u33	in the time that the Parliamentary Group of the CFP still has, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very briefly, recall the PSD and CDS-PP that Mrs Sara Madruga of the PSD did not say why the PCP abstained. The reason for this was precisely because in the proposal that the PSD and the CDS presented at the time was there « the possibility of scientific evidence is studied ». [[He's not! He's not!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u35	Now, the honourable Member was not serious, because what we know today, and scientific evidence proves, is that the vaccine against rotavirus has its very proven scientific evidence. [[Protests by PSD MP Sara Madruga from Costa.]] Therefore, this was the reason for the abstention of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party. [[No, it wasn't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u36	And, more than that, the assumption of this project is precisely the following: what is already with scientific evidence must be extended; what is still lacking scientific evidence must be studied, the benefit must be evaluated. And this is what we propose! What motivates us, in fact, is the strengthening of public health, with the strengthening of the National Vaccination Programme. On the other hand, the honourable Member has tried to make a show here with some numbers saying that the Programme and coverage are very large. True, we also said so, but we forgot to say, once again, the reality of those parents who took the children to vaccination and who could not vaccinate them because the stocks were limited or non-existent. This was the reality created by PSD/CDS over the last four years. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u37	Mrs Sara Madruga from the Coast, you asked for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u38	To defend the honour, Madam President. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u39	Defense of personal honor or of the bench? Well, at this point, it is indifferent because there are no more entries either, but I would like you to clarify it. Is it for the defense of personal honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u40	Yes, Madam President, and the bench too.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u41	Mrs. Member, you have to indicate...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u42	It may be personal. [[PCP laughter.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] I've chosen the staff, Mrs. Member. Take it easy I've chosen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u43	You have the floor, Your Honor, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u44	Madam President, I have been accused in this House of not being serious in my speech and I would like to remind Mrs Carla Cruz of the PCP that it is not serious to want to include a vaccine in the National Vaccination Programme without scientific studies that prove it and without the entity that is responsible for deciding to do so. This is to be irresponsible when the defence of public health, Portuguese and Portuguese is at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u45	Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor to explain her wishes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u46	Madam President, I will be brief and just to remind the PSD Member Sara Madruga from Costa that what you did, in fact, was to ignore the reasons. What we said here was that there is scientific evidence today for the introduction of rotavirus vaccine. It is scientifically proven, even the World Health Organization itself says so, and several societies, notably the Portuguese Society of Paediatric Infections, advocate it to prevent one of the most common infections in childhood. That is what we said and, in the end of the truth, the explicit reason for the PCP to abstain was precisely that, because what the PSD and CDS said was "the possibility is studied". Now, this evidence is already shown and integrates into the National Vaccination Programme. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u47	This concludes this item on our agenda and we will continue with point 4, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions 131 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the participation, by step A, of creams and compressive clothing for burned persons, where properly prescribed by the assistant physician or of Dermatology or Plastic Surgery ( CDS-PP ) and 256 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to support and protect burned persons ( BE ). To present the initiative of the CDS-PP, Mrs. Isabel Galliça Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today a draft resolution that recommends to the Government participation by step A of the creams and compressive clothing for people burned, when properly prescribed by the assistant doctor or specialties of dermatology and plastic and reconstructive surgery. Despite improving the living conditions of Portuguese society, the most serious burns continue to occur with some frequency, especially in the working or domestic environment. They are associated with conditions of high physical and psychological impact and continue to be a relevant cause of morbidity and even mortality every year. Most burns result, as we said, from so-called domestic accidents, from contact with liquids or hot surfaces. There is a higher incidence in the age group ranging from 1 to 5 years and above 65 years of age, and are the reason for the admission of about 250 adults per year and 200 people of paediatric age, i.e. of children. According to the Directorate-General of Health, the number of people who suffered burns during the years 2007 to 2012 always exceeded 1000 cases / year. Now, for us, these are not irrelevant numbers. The treatments of people burned have very high costs for very specialized and detailed care that are associated with them and yet, despite technical developments, burns always leave scars, often deformed. In addition to the costs spent on treatment, it is important not to forget the working days and/or lost school, the same with the elements of the patient's family. After discharge of the hospital, the burned patient begins a long recovery course that is associated with the sequelae of the burning and which, in short, we will say, goes through the use of the compressive clothing permanently and by specific care to improve the scars and try to control uncomfortable symptoms that are associated with the sequelae of the burns. The burn is therefore an accident that will leave marks for the rest of life, being more visible the body scars but not less important the psychological scars. Burns continue to be one of the main causes of post-traumatic stress and should even, in many circumstances, deserve follow-up by psychology or psychiatry. It should be remembered that a burn in the first two years after hospital discharge needs to spend, on average, around 300 euros on compressive clothing and will also have to regularly spend high amounts on cream products and on the emulients used in the bathroom. All of these products are classified as cosmetic medicine products, and so far there is no bonus for burning patients. The CDS therefore understands, and concludes, that, without prejudice to the strengthening of global health care aimed at these people, greater accessibility is required to therapies and a differentiated support that promotes the dignity and well-being of people who are burned, and can help avoid greater physical and psychological complications. in these terms, it is considered to be matter of public interest the allocation of the participation by step A of the creams and compressive clothing for people burned, when properly prescribed by the assistant physician or the specialty. We intend with this project to draw attention to the need for prevention of this type of injury and to contribute to increasing the quality of life of a group of Portuguese people who, not in very high numbers, present the marked sequelae of a drama that has affected them. I wish the other sides would follow us. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u49	To present the draft resolution of the authorship of BE, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An extensive and serious burning is, as mentioned here, an event that leaves numerous psychological and physical marks, often marking the course of a lifetime. People who have suffered burns need, because of these marks, specific health care throughout their lives. For example, we talk about rehabilitation and physiotherapy and the use of moisturizing and emollient creams, to proceed with hydration of the skin that has been burned, and other therapies and medication to reduce pain and to cope with the sequelae and consequences of burns, which they need throughout their lives. In addition to the lesion in the organ that is the skin, the most serious burns bring injuries to many other organs and also psychological consequences, which obliges these people to regular and permanent health care and also to many consultations, to many tests and therapies for a long time, if not for their whole life. however, many people who have been burned have enormous difficulties in accessing the therapies, consultations, creams and rehabilitation they need because these are either not shared or have to pay moderate rates. In fact, these have been issues raised by associations and family members of people who have suffered burns, alerting exactly to the difficulty of accessing the necessary treatment and the dignified treatment of these people. For this reason, BE proposes that, in addition to studying and evaluating the cost/benefit of the participation of compressive clothing and the need to provide with human resources, equipment and financial means the centers for the treatment of burns, we also propose the exemption of moderate rates taking into account the classification of the burn and its extension, as well as the participation of step A, to 90 % of the creams, medicines and treatments needed for these people, to patients who have suffered burns. We also hope that these proposals will be accompanied by all of you. Members because we believe that they are necessary and most fundamental justice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u51	For an intervention by the PS, Mr Luís Graça has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS and the Government are sensitive to the difficulties that sometimes extend throughout the life of the great burned people. We therefore follow the spirit of the draft resolutions presented here today, just as we are in solidarity with the claim of the associations, which have already been many years old, about the participation through the SNS of the treatments of the great burned after discharge of the hospital. Since then, people who suffer from this level of accidents are often disabled for work and lack treatments, such as hydration and physiotherapy, throughout their lives. However, we must not fail to point out that the letter of the BE and the CDS-PP initiatives are broadly comprehensive, involving costs which, depending on the extent of the proposals, can be very relevant, particularly in terms of budgetary impact, which, unfortunately, have not been analysed or taken into account in the initiatives we are now discussing. Moreover, the proposals end up being transversal to all types of burns, introducing up to some degree of iniquity by treating identical burns of 1. the degree, which mostly results from excessive solar exposure, and burns of 3. the degree, result of accidents with fire or chemicals and which involve, yes, very serious treatments, justifying, in fact, our weighting on the possibility of participation by the SNS, but which, without a previous weighted, serious and rigorous analysis of costs, risks being impracticable in the functioning of the SNS, by allowing different and possibly ambiguous interpretations, overcoming in some cases the measures that already exist and are already practiced within the SNS. In fact, the CDS-PP has given Parliament an initiative to participate in the stage A of the creams and compressive clothing for people who have not implemented in the four and a half years that it has been in the government, confirming the maximum "well preaches Frei Tomás, does what it says but does not do what it does. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] Stressing the relevance and justice of the issue that has been mobilising the defence associations of people who have suffered great and serious injuries for many years, in particular for the recognition of the status of chronic patients and the participation of the State in treatments, we believe that this subject, even because of the very strong impact it has on the lives of these people, should be treated with absolute rigour, as soon as the Infarmed has no prior pronouncement on what type of products and moisturizing creams should be part of the product framework shared by the SNS, in order to avoid, in the end, situations of abuse which, within the limit, could put the SNS to finance products that are incompatible to the State. It is also mentioned that the Government, through the Ministry of Health, has recently implemented and in line with best European practices, the National System for the Evaluation of Health Technologies, which provides for the creation of an independent committee of experts responsible for conducting evaluation opinions on cost/effectiveness and on efficiency in the financing and use of health technologies, including medicines and medical devices, and we believe that this entity should be heard before we make a decision. That is why I am finished, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, stressing our sensitivity to the fight of the great burns and their associations, repeating here the PS's commitment to follow this issue so that Infarmed will publish in the shortest time a table of products to be financed by the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u53	For an intervention by the CFP, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Burn victims are very special patients, since they are left with the mark of their injury recorded in the skin. They are patients where image issues, but also the effective limitations of burns, cause a lot of suffering. Burns can also cause the destruction of nerve endings and therefore sensitivity is affected. Loss of sensitivity may have serious repercussions on the lives of these people. Burns are the most frequent cause of hospitalization in children and young people up to 18 years of age. There will be a thousand and a half of the number of Portuguese people who suffer from burns every year and they will be caused by domestic accidents or accidents at work. Burners are chronic patients, who will always remain in need of treatment and follow-up. The extent of the problem and the complexity, up to personal level, deserve a clear concern, as shown here today. In Portugal, the treatment of large burns is concentrated in units in Lisbon, Porto and Coimbra. All units for adults, there is no unit for children. The concentrated location of these units gives us the notion of the implications for the life of the patient and the family that this situation has since the first hour. The spirit of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic determines, in health matters, the existence of a National General Health Service, universal and free of charge, although right-wing forces have overturned it with the introduction of trendyly free of charge, which has made it tendably paid in recent years. This spirit of general and universal has a vision of concern to the human being — all human beings — in a perspective of prevention, treatment and recovery, ensuring quality of care without description according to economic and social conditions. And, therefore, the national health policy and the guarantee of conditions of life for Portuguese people should provide patients with all the conditions to ensure adequate health care for the needs of each specific pathology. This appreciation and qualification of Portuguese health and life will eliminate the need to treat specific problems in a vulva way. The CFP Parliamentary Group is sensitive to the suffering of these patients and accompanies concerns that may relieve the costs of treatment and the means necessary to minimize the consequences of a serious health problem. The CFP understands that the legislative framework on the system of participation should be treated in a comprehensive and non-participative manner, taking into account the needs of all patients, subject to exclusion. That is, accessibility to medicines, treatments and health care should be ensured for all patients in need. In any case, the fairness of this concrete issue leads the CFP to accompany it, but we did not want to say that it is to record that the CDS, which now proposes these measures, has been four years with government responsibilities and could have solved this and other problems, but did not have as priority these patients. Because of this CDS behavior, patients should not be penalized, but it is not too much to register. The CFP reaffirms its commitment to improving the living conditions of Portuguese people, in particular by improving their incomes and rights, never forgetting the need to ensure the accessibility of these and other patients to health care. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u55	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela War has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss two initiatives, the CDS-PP and the Left Block, both recommending to the Government measures to support and protect people burned. It is a matter of greater relevance and opportunity, insofar as people who suffer burns are often severely, permanently, and even incapacitating for the rest of their lives. in the case of weaker segments of our population, as are especially children and the elderly, this issue assumes even more dramatic contours. According to the World Health Organization report on the prevention of accidents in children, 75% of burns in children are caused by hot liquids or steam, and children under one year of age are at a significant risk in these burns. WHO estimates that around 275 000 deaths occur worldwide every year due to burns, more than the population living in Porto. in this, as in many other health issues, the bet should begin by prevention. Education for health, raising people's awareness, disseminating information and developing prevention programs, identifying risk factors or avoiding potentially dangerous behaviors are fundamental tools to prevent accidents that we all know take place, mainly in the home or workplace. Therefore, families and schools have a special responsibility in the education and counseling of children and young people, and employers must also ensure safety at work. The State and the public authorities must also develop campaigns and ensure public clarification on the prevention and care of burns, assuming this as a task of everyone, of society itself. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These recommendations to the Government deserve overall agreement from the PSD, both with regard to the participation by step A of clothes for severe burns and creams for the treatment of burns, provided that of course this results from the relevant medical prescription and not, as Mr Deputy said, for all. These draft resolutions are very clear, in fact, the one from the Left Block even has a grid that identifies which are the classifications of burns and, therefore, are serious burns and when there is medical prescription in this regard. Strengthening the means of the burn treatment units with a view to improving the results and more efficient and adequate management of burns or the creation of a national training and information programme are certainly measures with the support of the PSD. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it may be worth taking advantage of this debate to go a little further. WHO defends as effective measures to reduce burns, for example, the approval of legislation promoting the installation of fire alarms in dwellings, particularly in children's bedrooms, the generalization of lighters resistant to children or the strengthening of the regulation of hot water temperature in taps. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is available for this debate within the Health Committee in order to promote a deep and serious reflection on the issue of protection for people who are burned. A cause that neither the State nor society can lie down. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u57	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by telling Mrs. Angela War that we agree. Training, information and prevention measures must also be taken. In fact, we also foresee these measures in our draft resolution, because it is indeed necessary to prevent the occurrence of events and thermal burns and others. Mr. Luís Graça, the project presented by the Left Block I believe that it is clear both with regard to the dispensation of moderate rates and sharing. in the case of the expense of moderate rates, we say, in fact, that burning patients are dispensed according to the classification, extent and severity of burning. Therefore, there is no confusion between 1. the degree and other more serious. in the case of participations, these will exist by medical prescription and therefore we believe that from this point of view too the concern that Mr has revealed is alarmed. Given that these participations are cautious, I believe that this project has all the conditions to be approved and implemented by the government, in articulation, of course, with Infarmed and with other institutes and organizations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u59	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us continue our agenda, moving to the joint discussion of petition No 9 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Submitted by Ana Carina Branco da Silva Pereira and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic for legislation to extend the maternity leave to 6 months, for the health of babies, and for lein. 174 / XIII projects ( 1. ( a ) — Amends the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 by strengthening the protection regime in parenthood ( NAP ) and 176 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the initial parental leave and the period of exemption for breastfeeding ( BE ). The NAP and the Left Block presented bills on the same subject and, in this sense, as the NAP bill was the first to enter, will be Mr André Silva to make the presentation of this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners : We are presenting today a proposal that results from a commitment made through our electoral programme and from seeking to go further, again risking a progressive approach. Several political forces have been proposing the increase of parental leave for shorter periods than those we bring here, so the ambition of the NAP on this issue reflects the new spectrum of balance for which we want to contribute. More than a matter of budgetary impact, this is a question of social policy of immediate reach, because it enables the constitution to result from the natural and intrinsic will of the human being, without being conditioned for exogenous reasons of an economic or professional nature and of medium/long term, because it allows the creation of stronger emotional ties by combating the growing number of dysfunctional families. A brief analysis of the international reality, as we can see from this picture, allows us to see that this is not a subject subject to the dictatorship of the so-called economic development, measured by increasingly falsifying and questionable indicators as such. On the other hand, we cannot ignore the opinion of experts who show serious and proven damage to the development of mental and physical health of the mother and baby, where the issue of breastfeeding is of particular importance. As we propose, we are aware of this, it represents, in the light of the coldness of the numbers, a charge relevant to the Portuguese State. We can, however, address it in two different perspectives: as a expenditure or as an investment, which, to the immediate and deferred social gains, will combine, in the medium term, the economic increases already benefiting the countries that invest in the best social practices. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u61	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parentality is neither an obligation nor a duty, it is a choice. But it is a choice that is not made in void, and that is why a debate on birth and a debate on the protection of parenthood has to talk about the great obstacles that are now posed to people's free choice in this area. Who has jeopardised the work and the rights associated with the work, who has laid down the impoverishment with the cut of social support, who has sent us emigration, who has kept the family allowance frozen, who has cut support and access to health, who has degraded education, has very few conditions for, in a magic passage, to present itself, in this Parliament, as a great defender of families. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is not enough to say, Mrs Assunción Cristas, « they reproduce », we need to have a decent country, particularly in the world of work and in access to public services. Therefore, on behalf of the Left Block, I would like to greet Ana Carina Pereira and the 30,000 people who have raised this debate in Parliament on the extension of parental leave. It is known that the World Health Organization and UNICEF have made recommendations to extend this licence up to six months, particularly for issues related to breastfeeding and breastfeeding. It is known that many parents would welcome these recommendations, but they cannot do so because of concrete social and labor circumstances. That is why we value the right to have children, if we want to protect parenthood, we need to intervene in many areas: in job creation; in promoting safety at work and in combating precariousness; in promoting public daycare; in concrete measures such as breakfast in schools or free school textbooks; in strengthening family allowance or support for children. But we also need a fundamental thing, the most precious and most irreplaceable good, which is that we have time to live, in particular, time to be with our children, time to be with our children. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u63	It makes no sense to live in a society in which we are so absorbed in work that we do not have time to live, in particular, parenthood. The two Bloc proposals answer this question. First, we want to extend up to six months the licence paid to 100 % and up to two years of the child the reduction of two hours in the day-to-day working hours of the people. We want more time for mothers and parents to be with their children. Our solution is not breached by what is proposed by the petition, and it is not for two reasons: first, we do not understand that this license is just a mother's license, it must be a parental license, shared between the father and the mother, or between the mother and the mother, or between the father and the father. We want parenthood to be shared. And in a country where women earn less than 21% than men in a country where women continue to be disadvantaged and penalized in the world of work, gender equality is fundamental to us, particularly in breastfeeding. Parents can and should breastfeed and it is important that there are new experiences of kinship also on the part of men. The second difference with respect to the petition is that we believe that the extension of this licence and this two-hour reduction should extend to the adopters. The adopters are not parents or mothers of second. If what the family does is love, then adopters are, of course, first-class families, who must have the same access to these rights and must have the same time to be with children who have all families. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u64	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CDS-PP, I would like to greet the more than 6700 petitioners who have signed this petition, who have presented it, some of them present here, and have provoked this discussion. I would like to tell you, moreover, that this evidence of civic participation, of civic interest in triggering a discussion on any subject but in particular on this issue, which is an important issue, deserves from this House of the Republic, perhaps another kind of approach and other attitude that we have not seen now, particularly in Mr José Soeiro's intervention of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u66	And a bill, right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u67	So I'm going to have to make an intervention that I didn't want and that I don't even think I should,... [[BE's protests.]] ...because this theme should not be politicized. But I'm going to be forced to do it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, you will not like what you will hear.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u68	It was good to introduce a bill!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u69	I address first to the citizens and citizens who have come to work here to hear a serious discussion of a subject that is serious, that they have collected these signatures, which certainly was not easy, gave them work and took time that they could have for their leisure and their families, and that they have attended from Mr. Bloc de Left to a purely party attack. [[Mr José Moura Soeiro's laughs.]] What I wanted to tell you is that the CDS-PP is obviously concerned about this issue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u70	It just doesn't have any action! Zero measures!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u71	... of course you have proposals about it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u72	Where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u73	... and in this way we consider it important that we act the parliamentary mechanism that gives the possibility of a party to require a legislative agenda, which will be on May 5, Thursday, and from now on I invite you to be present - in which we will present a comprehensive, comprehensive and cross-sectional set of proposals on this subject of birth and demography, as it should be, as the subject requires and deserves. It is not with rough measures and much less tow, and opportunistically,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u74	Where are the measures?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u75	... of the work of citizens and citizens, who have collected these signatures, which we can and should discuss this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u77	Mr Soeiro — and I am now addressing you — it is extraordinary, it is necessary to have an unusual can to come and accuse the President of the CDS-PP and the CDS-PP of not having any kind of policy on this subject when you know — and that is why it is politically dishonest — that the CDS-PP has allocated its first legislative agenda on this subject. Where was the Block? What was the first power schedule of the Block, Mr? [[CDS-PP applause.]] Does he care only about families when he likes them? Are you interested only in talking about radio and television? Is that all it's for? Oh, my God! It is what, moreover, is your expression, and today again falls the mask of the Block: opportunism, opportunism! to citizens and citizens, as regards the proposals, I will say that, of course, we will be available to analyze the Bloc project, which seems to us much more sensible than this intervention by Mr José Soeiro. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Very opportunistic and very dishonest!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u78	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP, I would like to welcome the thousands of petitioners who have dynamized and subscribed to this petition, bringing this matter to Parliament, defending the extension of the maternity leave for six months paid at 100 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u81	Maternity and paternity rights are a conquest of the April Revolution and the Constitution enshrines the social function of maternity and the duty of the State to protect this task. Strengthening father's rights cannot be done at the expense of withdrawal or degradation of mother's rights. That is, the sharing of tasks in the family and society should be promoted, with the ultimate objective being equal responsibility for the mother and father. This implies the consecration of the rights of the father and mother autonomously, in a perspective of complementarity in the sense of equality between women and men, in all areas of life in society. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has delivered a bill that has not drawn up for this discussion because it has not yet finished the public discussion period. We understand that the amendments to labour laws should not be discussed generally without the conclusion of the public discussion period. Still, and giving visibility to those who are our proposals, what we stand for is the following: extending the time of compulsory maternity leave from six to nine weeks; extending the compulsory leave time of the father from 15 to 30 days; extending the maternity leave up to 180 days, six months, paid to 100 %; extending the parental leave up to 60 days, 30 compulsory and 30 optional days. A very important thing we propose, sirs. Members, it is that it is the couple and the woman to decide on the period of enjoyment of the parental leave, always ensuring their payment at 100 %, up to 210 days, and the creation of a specific prematurity licence. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is very important. The parents of premature babies have warned this Parliament of the importance of granting a pre-term leave in addition to maternity and paternity leave. It was very important that these children and their families should be answered once and for all. We also propose payment of the pregnancy allowance for specific risks at 100 %. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a contribution to the defence of maternity and paternity rights, but above all it is a contribution to the best interests of the child and their rights. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u82	For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me - firstly, let me begin by congratulating all the subscribers of this petition and that, in a very special way, health and thank Ana Carina Branco da Silva Pereira, promoter and first subscriber of this initiative, for the example of the exercise of an important right of citizenship that brought to the Assembly of the Republic such important issue, as is the defense of children. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u84	Mrs. Members, family issues, parental leave, personal and professional life and the health of children are and have always been, for this parliamentary group, fundamental and we believe that there must be constant monitoring of these matters. They are subjects that deserve a broad debate, a permanent debate, and that must therefore also have and deserve a broad consensus. This has been the case in the past and will be the case in the future. I remind this House that, in the previous Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliament and at the initiative of this parliamentary group, a draft resolution was presented that led the 12 parliamentary committees to discuss this matter of motherhood, paternity, children and the family. This led to the fact that, after hearing vast entities, huge people, they would be helped by everyone to improve the legislation that existed and remove barriers in order to facilitate the lives of families and children, protecting them and supporting them. I recall that numerous changes have been made that have recently entered into force. It is worth noting that the extension of the father's compulsory parental leave from 10 to 15 days, although it has been an amendment made in the previous legislation and on the initiative of the parliamentary groups of the PSD and the CDS-PP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u86	... only entered into force with the 2015 State Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u87	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u88	This is therefore still a very recent amendment. It is, therefore, fundamental, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be serious and realize that it is important that we follow these measures which have been introduced recently.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u90	It is important to remember that an interdisciplinary committee was set up to work on birth issues, so that, once and for all, they would be addressed cross-cuttingly.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u91	It's integrated!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u92	This is so that not only spot changes are made, but changes are made in an integrated, cross-sectional way, to effectively protect the family and children.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u94	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u95	in this sense, and taking into account specifically the question of the extension of the mother's exclusive license, what we understand is that this measure, which, as we all know, has impacts on the economy, deserves serious discussion and broad consensus, but a consensus that goes beyond the parliamentary consensus and involves civil society, social dialogue, because only so together will we be able to do more and better because we know that it is necessary to do more and more and better for families and children. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u96	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on Greens, I would like to greet these thousands of petitioners who have agreed to address the Assembly of the Republic in order to apply for the extension of maternity leave. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in the past Parliament we have had a broad debate on matters of birth. The country is faced with very serious demographic problems, with a low birth rate, and it was important to discuss these issues in the Assembly of the Republic, with numerous projects presented by the various parliamentary groups. But note that, then and now, the PSD Parliamentary Group and the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group continue to say that we need to study, we need to listen, we need to talk. We're not going through this!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u98	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u99	We've passed an entire legislation and they want another whole legislation...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u100	When we saw the game, you don't come!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u101	...to continue to study and talk and never make decisions again. On every proposal that comes to the Assembly of the Republic, what are you and the Members? Ladies and gentlemen say? We cannot approve on-the-spot measures. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with specific problems, which deserve concrete answers. We don't need to change everything for the problem to be solved. Don't! The road is walking. We cannot pretend that the problems do not exist, we will continue to hold broad debates and never go to concrete measures to solve the specific problems. On the specific problem raised by the petition, I want to say that the Greens will also contribute to the presentation of a bill on the extension of parental leave and the follow-up of children. In fact, women today are faced with the following: the World Health Organization, and not only, recommends exclusive breastfeeding up to six months and breastfeeding in conjunction with other foods up to two years. Everyone knows that this is absolutely relevant to children and also to mothers, especially in the sense of disease prevention and for the immune system. We all know that, among many other things. What happens is that, given the period of parental leave, in particular the component of the maternity that is now given by law, this recommendation of the World Health Organization cannot be implemented in Portugal. Since women have to start working mainly at the end of the four months, they cannot fulfill these six months and have just given up breastfeeding. It's not voluntary, it's because of the circumstances. They're forced to do that. And this, in fact, causes serious problems for these women, for these family relationships and for these labor relations. People also want to work well—I think that businesses too—and, for people to be well at work, it is essential to give them rights, they are not privileges, they are rights that society must have in order to regulate these situations. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens do not want to stay out of this debate, they want to contribute to this debate. in this sense, we will present a bill to extend maternity and paternity leave and we will also take into account the recommendation of the Medical Order, which has already brought it to the Assembly of the Republic, in order to be reduced two hours in the daily working time to all women up to the three years of age of their children, for reasons of breastfeeding and follow-up. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they are fundamental extensions for a debate, which we all want to see not only discussed but concretely related to the matters of birth, but not just...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u102	Mrs. Member, the Bureau has been distracted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u103	Madam President, that is why I am not guilty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u104	And the honourable Member has clearly benefited from this distraction. You can conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u105	I took advantage, it's true. I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying that the Greens will make a contribution here too in Parliament. [[At the moment, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u106	For an intervention, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to welcome the petitioners and their contribution to a discussion on such an important subject as the matter of support for parents and mothers in their essential role of education and child care. I would like to begin speaking in this debate by making clear the principles that for the Socialist Party are fundamental when we discuss parental leave. Firstly, the principle of balance between the interests and the rights of mothers, the interests and rights of parents and the interests and rights of children. This principle implies promoting the sharing and care of children after birth between parents and mothers, being fundamental, in this effort, the exclusive time of the father along with the exclusive time of the mother. The second principle is that everything in terms of licences means more time for mothers without sharing this time with their parents is a backwardness that has negative consequences for women in the labour market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the third principle is the balance of the law in relation to parental leave with the autonomy of parents and mothers in choices than they consider to be better for the organization of their lives. On the parental leave in force, it must be said that today's parental leave in Portugal is a balanced license, which encourages the sharing of parents and mothers proactively and positively, giving more time to parents who share the licence. in this debate it is important to note that, although recently, the accession of men to the share of the licence is very positive and should continue to be encouraged. It is important to point out that our parental leave compares well, taking into account the principles I have referred to, with the best licences in the context of OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and the European Union. I draw attention to the care that we should have when we compare the time of the different licences in different countries, because we have to distinguish the time of these licences paid from the time of these unpaid licences and, in Portugal, if we join the parental leave to the supplementary parental leave, the total license is nine months and not just six months. On breastfeeding, it is important to take into account what the law already provides for today. The law today already provides for the right to have two hours for breastfeeding without a specific time defined in the legislation. In other words, in Portugal today, women who want to breastfeed can breastfeed for two hours a day without time defined in the legislation and, therefore, we also judge that it is anticipated in the law is balanced.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u108	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u109	I'll finish. And if we associate to this the effort that the National Health Service makes in the information and support of women who want to breastfeed, we even consider this balanced position. Finally, Mr President, on support for families in general and for birth in particular, we have to define priorities and for the PS, priorities are clear. Firstly, stability at work and income. Secondly, reduce costs with children and families who have children. Thirdly, to ensure the involvement of social consultation to promote adherence to policies and to ensure its stability. Our challenge, Mr President, is to create conditions for families to have more and more children who wish to have and not only those who want to have. That is our challenge, for the benefit of families, for the benefit of people and, above all, for the benefit of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u110	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u111	Mr President, I would like to speak to answer some of the questions that have been raised in this debate. Mrs. Members of the PS, the PCP proposes to strengthen the mother's license and proposes to strengthen the father's license and therefore we are acting on both the father and the mother's responsibility. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, since September, with amendments to the law of motherhood and paternity, which the previous Government of the PSD and CDS promoted in practice this meant that until then children had the right to stay at home with their parents for up to six months, with income paid at 100 %. Since September children have lost one month and parents only ensure that the payment is 100 % if they stay at home five months. Therefore, the impact analysis of the last change they made has already been done, which resulted in less than a month for the best interests of the child. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say the following: on the side of the CFP; we will have every opportunity to discuss these matters. The question of prematurity and prematurity leave has been brought to this House for more than four years. There was never availability of either PSD or CDS to discuss it. We have brought proposals to this House to ensure that the specific licences for women who cannot be exposed to risks at work are paid 100 % and not damaged. There has never been a willingness to do so throughout the four years of government of the PSD and the CDS. But here we will be to do this debate, aware of one thing: the guarantee of these rights will always result from the protection of rights by mothers and parents and is not from social consultation, it is from the struggle for better living and working conditions, which is a pillar for the development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u112	Mrs. Members, we will now appreciate the votes Nos 65 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by the deaths in the Mediterranean ( BE ), 66 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Consternation and solidarity by the humanitarian catastrophe in the Mediterranean ( CDS-PP and PS ), 67 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — In spite of the shipwreck in the Mediterranean Sea ( PS ) and 68 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — In spite of the shipwreck in the Mediterranean Sea ( PSD ), for which each parliamentary group will have two minutes to intervene. In the meantime, at 12 noon, we will begin the vote. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, ladies and gentlemen, another week and another shipwreck, unfortunately we had this news, this time in the middle of the high seas, at the time of the passage from a larger boat to a smaller boat and therefore in this situation of illegal traffic, more 500 people died in the Mediterranean. The cemetery where this sea has become continues to increase the number of victims. Only in 2016, until today more than 1500 people died in the Mediterranean Sea. That is, we now exceed one quarter of the number of dead, only in 2015. What can these numbers tell us right now? That there is no slowdown in trafficking in persons and in consecutive deaths during these operations. As such, we should all ask: how is it possible to reach the month of April 2016 and we have already exceeded a quarter of the number of deaths of 2015, when there is an agreement with Turkey, when there are several mechanisms that are being put into practice and nothing is working on solving this problem? Unfortunately, we have continued to present here to this House vows of regret due to situations that have taken hundreds of people's lives only once. The choice is very simple: either we will let these situations accumulate and that the Mediterranean Sea continues to be the cemetery of people fleeing from death and trying to reach Europe or, then, in fact, we make the opposite choice and we have a policy of welcoming these people who ask refuge for being fleeing the war and we do not leave them to their fate to die in the sea, as it has happened. from there we will present this regret vote for another situation that we hope will not happen again, but unfortunately everything indicates that the measures adopted so far are not helping to solve this situation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u114	You have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, Members are beginning to be a sad repetition of voting by several parliamentary groups, of course, all of them justifiable. But when I say'serious repetition' it is in the sense of being hopes of consternation and solidarity which none of us would definitely want to present or have to resubmit. I would say that perhaps the anxiety that extends to all of us is that, if we are absolutely sincere, we have the conviction that, unfortunately, we will again have to present. I think this is something that must call us here today so that we can all together give a sign that, with the political and ideological differences that separate us — and there are certainly many — there is something that unites us, which is the dismay and repudiation for these kinds of situations, of tragedies, for this kind of tragic episodes that are unacceptable to the waters of the Mediterranean. We know, we are aware that it is a complex problem, that many unscrupulous people earn a lot of money on account of the despair of many people whose only goal—and that it gives everything, including life—is to flee to war, to hunger, often even to extermination. We know, therefore, that the problem will continue as long as this business is so lucrative and as long as there are unscrupulous people exploiting this business, that, even according to international studies, it will already be superior, from the point of view, not want to call it profit, financial impact, drug trafficking and weapons—see the power that our enemies have (I call them even enemies). Clearly, we know that the European Union can and must take action, and it has done so. But still, in our eyes, they are insufficient. We therefore express our dismay, our sadness and call upon the European institutions and other States within the European Union, particularly those countries where these problems are greater, to engage in a relentless fight against these criminal organisations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u116	Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Mediterranean, the cradle of European civilization, the nevrálgic centre of the crossing of cultures, has become a path of death, of trafficking, of inhumanization, of human rights, of everything that is inverse to the advancement of civilization. It is clear that we know the causes, we realize that this humanitarian drama has an eminent cause that is war, but we also know that, apart from the war, there is a complete imbalance, a great inequality between the North and the South, a great inequality that ultimately has to do with inequalities between the poor and the rich, ecological inequalities, inequalities that, all of us, Europeans, of societies with the greatest unemployment, also feel in some manner responsible. We know that because of wrong foreign policy interventions, we know that because of wrong economic policy interventions, we know that, in a way, the West is also responsible for much of what is happening in that region of the world. We cannot spend our lives having regrets here, we cannot always be appalled with what is happening in the Mediterranean, we must find solutions, we must be active in finding ways to prevent us from permanently presenting vows of regret for more deaths, as well as human rights that constantly stand in front of us in this scenario of horror that does not cease to happen in the Mediterranean. All this parliamentary situation continues to express its sorrow. We want to join together, yes, to find solutions and say "It's enough! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The Portuguese Parliament has to say, in all the Member States, that it is enough that we do not want to continue to show solidarity with horror. We want to say "that's enough, enough of this horror! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u118	I wanted to ask the ladies. Members who are standing by to sit down and ask for silence, so that we can hear the speeches. On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Mediterranean Sea witnessed another humanitarian disaster this week. The United Nations has already confirmed the death of more than 500 people. There are figures indicating that over the past four years more than 11 000 people have lost their lives at the doors of Europe. While this happened, the GNR could, on the other hand, rescue 21 people alive off Kos Island in Greece. This was one of the biggest accidents ever and in 2016 more than 1500 people have already lost their lives in the Mediterranean Sea. Horror and dismay are reinforced by the lives interrupted, by the lives lost in this human drama. But this human drama is, above all, one of the greatest humanitarian crises ever and, while this drama occurs, migration routes flourish for human trafficking. Of course, the European Union has not given the rapid, effective response that ends with the interruption of these lives at the doors of Europe and, of course, that the PSD Parliamentary Group shows its deepest dismay and sadness for the more than 500 people who have lost their lives and reiterates that the European Union has to give a more rapid and effective response to this humanitarian drama. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u120	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP begins by expressing to the victims of the recent shipwrecks in the Mediterranean and its relatives their regret over this dramatic event and expressing solidarity to the victims of these tragedies. These tragedies have causes and they are rooted in the processes of interference, destabilization and external aggression. And contrary to what is suggested by the views of the PSD and the CDS, these situations benefit from the consistency and responsibilities of the European Union, which oblige thousands of men, women and children to leave their countries to escape war, poverty and misery. We must also mention the action of the European agency Frontex. This agency increasingly acts as a repressive force in front of citizens and especially against refugees and asylum seekers from North Africa and the Middle East, who suffer a repulsive action from xenophobic contours. And those who arrive at Europe and the countries of the European Union, rather than being accepted in accordance with the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, face degrading and inhumane conditions which have worsened further with the implementation of the European Union-Turkey Agreement, an agreement which contains unacceptable measures and which has been questioned by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which offers counterpartes, including financial ones, to Turkey to play the role of buffer against refugees and immigrants who seek to reach the European continent and who deserve the most vetly repudiation and rejection of the CFP. The CFP affirms the need for policies for refugees and immigrants, which respect the principles of the United Nations Charter and expresses its solidarity with all peoples who are victims of foreign interference and aggression, in particular the Syrian people, who today constitute the bulk of the refugee and displaced. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u122	The last intervention is by Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens are again associated with the two votes of regret for the deaths in the Mediterranean which are being discussed today. In fact, when we look at this true humanitarian tragedy and as the days pass, we do not know when we are deeply beaten. And the worst thing is that, despite the worsening situation and the increase in the number of victims, no action is seen by the European Union that can put an end to the death of thousands of innocent people who flee war and hunger, who seek survival and who, after all, find death. But the continuation of this humanitarian tragedy shows once again that the Agreement between the European Union and Turkey is not contributing to minimize the problems and much less for its resolution. We therefore associate ourselves with the votes of regret, but we do not follow the PSD or the CDS-PP in their votes of consternation and solidarity. We are not going to vote against, but we have a different reading, we have a different opinion from that of the PSD and the CDS as to the efforts by the European Union to mitigate the impacts of migration flows that are, in fact, referred to in the texts of the PSD and CDS votes. Therefore, the Greens take advantage to express their deepest sympathy for the sad and shameful events in the Mediterranean and pay tribute to all victims, their family members and friends, hoping that it will now be enough for the European Union to tackle this problem with ‘eyes to see’. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u124	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, Mr Duarte Pacheco will read the file. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have taken part in the Bureau and the following initiatives have been admitted: interpellation No 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Sustainability of social security and the use of the Financial Stability Fund ( PSD ), the projects of lein.o 178 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Safeguards the maintenance pension as a child's right in the calculation of income ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 179 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Framework Law of Regulatory Entities, approved by Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August, and amends the Statute of the Public Manager, approved by Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission and draft resolutions 261 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a water analysis programme for human consumption to verify the presence of glyphosate residues and include it in the list of pesticides to be investigated in water pursuant to Decree-Law No 306 / 2007 of 27 August ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 262 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to strengthen social cohesion and equality ( PSD ), 263 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — By a National Service of Sustainable Health, with quality health care and equity in access, better health promotion and more disease prevention ( PSD ) and 264 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — by the full re-qualification of the West Railway Line and its inclusion in the railway investment plan 2016 - 2020 ( BE). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u126	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal the Bureau and then make the presence record, so that it will be considered to be present at the meeting. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 204 presences, to which Mr Paulo Portas of the CDS-PP has added, signaled to the Bureau that he was unable to register electronically, making 205 Members, so we have a quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting vote No 64 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — In spite of the death of the political prisoner Saraauí Brahim Saika ( BE and PS ). I call on Mr Moisés Ferreira to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Saika Brahim, aged 31, trade unionist and political prisoner Saarauí, died last Friday, April 15, after a coma period of several days. Master in Sociology by the University of Marrakesh and one of the main leaders of the Saarauís Coordinator of the Unemployed, was arrested on 1 April and subsequently tortured in captivity for organizing and participating in a peaceful protest of the Saarauís unemployed. On April 6, he went into hunger strike as a form of protest. With the worsening of his physical condition, he was hospitalized in severe condition at the hospital of Gulemin, and subsequently transferred to the hospital of Agadir, where he would eventually die. The death of Saika Brahim is yet another sad outcome that reveals the urgency of resolving the situation in Western Sahara territory, through the holding of the referendum on self-determination decided in the framework of the United Nations intervention and accepted by all parties, thus opening the way for peace and the protection of human rights. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret over the death of activist Saarauí Brahim Saika and pays tribute to his family and the people of Saarauí for his loss».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u128	We shall then vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u129	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u130	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u131	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u132	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u133	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u134	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u135	Mr President, it is also to inform that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u136	All right, get registered. The PSD Parliamentary Group informs the Bureau that it will also present a statement of vote on this vote. Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on vote No 65 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — In spite of the deaths in the Mediterranean ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the deputies of PS Isabel Santos and Maria Antonio Almeida Santos and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] [[It is as follows: A new shipwreck of dramatic consequences for hundreds of people, which occurred last week, has further increased the tragic numbers of deaths in the Mediterranean Sea, increasingly transformed into a huge cemetery. In the high seas, at the hands of a traffic network, 500 innocent lives were lost off the Libyan coast, leaving the survivors abandoned to their own fate. This year alone, the number of deaths in the Mediterranean Sea is already 1561, more than a quarter of the total deaths recorded in 2015. The cruelty of these numbers shows that we are not witnessing a decrease in attempts to pass through the Mediterranean Sea. But more than anything else, this dramatic issue shows that Frontex's strengthening policy and the conclusion of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey are by no means eliminating trafficking in human beings. Announced as an instrument of legal screening of so many thousands of people who seek Europe as a refuge, fleeing from war and poverty, the agreement appreciated is no more than an instrument of illegalization of this search and the return of those who flee to the places of hunger, war and misery in which they live. Moreover, this Europe buffering agreement and the expulsion of applicants for international protection in their territory is no longer doing anything but putting new pressure on crossings through the Mediterranean Sea and placing thousands of refugees in the hands of traffickers. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its deep regret over this sad event and pays tribute to all its victims, relatives and friends.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u137	We turn to the vote on vote No 66 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consternation and solidarity by the humanitarian catastrophe in the Mediterranean ( CDS-PP and PS ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] [[On 20 April, the UN Refugee Agency announced the strong possibility of another tragic episode in the Mediterranean waters. Allegedly, a fishing vessel will have sunk off the coast of Libya, victimizing about 500 people. These precarious and illegal vessels are increasingly similar to authentic floating chains, where inhumanity and indignity prevail. Confirming this dramatic incident, the number of deaths will reach a quarter of the total deaths recorded in 2015 — more than 3000 human lives. Thus, this human calamity will become one of the most devastating catastrophes of the last 12 months. It is disturbing to note that migratory phenomena continue to be essentially organized by smugglers and traffickers, who violate human rights in an absolutely tragic way, taking advantage of the lack of coordination policies at the migration level, between the States of origin and the States of destination, and of the ineffectiveness of combating these abject criminal organizations. Despite the efforts made by the European Union to mitigate the impact of migration flows, it is not understandable that, once again, we are witnessing a misfortune with similar proportions to those we have seen in the past. The Mediterranean Sea, the cradle of European civilization, is still approaching more than one tomb of human despair than of space between Europe and different civilizations. In this sense, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its dismay and sadness to the families and friends of the victims of the shipwreck, so far missing, and calls for the redouble of European efforts to control, in the name of European solidarity and identity, the external border of Europe, preventing the action of these criminal organisations and avoiding the repetition of tragic episodes like this.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u138	Mrs. Members, let us now vote on vote No 67 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — In spite of the shipwreck in the Mediterranean Sea ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[This is the following: The last week was, unfortunately, once again, marked by the tragedy in the Mediterranean Sea, following another shipwreck that took almost five hundred lives that started in search of a better life in Europe. On 18 April 2016, it thus joins the unacceptably long list of dates that mark the loss of human lives in the hands of transport organised without security by networks of trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration, which profit from despair and the state of need of those who seek relief in Europe from military and civil conflicts or from situations of extreme hunger and poverty that overtake their countries of origin. Despite the many efforts being made to halt the proliferation of illegal immigration networks, this new and dramatic shipwreck has revealed that flows remain active and that we are facing a priority and a challenge at European level. It is therefore essential to ensure the commitment of the Member States and the European Union to the robustness and adequacy of their responses, ensuring that they are at the height of the grave humanitarian crisis that we are witnessing at the Union's maritime borders and that the lives and dignity of those subjected to the risks of traffic networks are safeguarded. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, assembled in plenary, expresses its deep regret at the new loss of hundreds of lives in the Mediterranean, conveying its tribute to all its victims, their families and friends, as well as to the survivors of the tragic event.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u139	Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 68 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — In spite of the shipwreck in the Mediterranean Sea ( PSD ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] [[The Mediterranean Sea again this week has become stained by a humanitarian disaster with the shipwreck of more than 500 people, already confirmed by the United Nations. On the other hand, while the world was witnessing another humanitarian scourge, the GNR was able to rescue 21 people alive off Kos Island in Greece. With this accident, one of the biggest ever, the number of dead in 2016 is rising to 1561 and the horror and dismay of the number of lives already lost in the attempt to reach Europe. The humanitarian drama we witnessed in the Mediterranean Sea, as in the Aegean Sea, is the result of one of the most serious and profound migration crises that history has ever known. While these routes in the Mediterranean Sea and in the Aegean Sea take away thousands of innocents every year, on the other hand, they flourish the smuggling and trafficking of human beings, one of the most horrendous attacks on the dignity of human life that can be done. Although this drama has been going on for too long, the European Union has not been effective enough and is quick to avoid these tragedies, which all Member States certainly deserve the greatest of the concerns, from the very beginning, in the light of the principles which have founded the European Union and which are, in fact, its cornerstone. In this sense, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its dismay and sadness at the death of more than 500 people in the Mediterranean Sea and reiterates the need for the European Union to provide a response that safeguards its values, but above all that combats this humanitarian drama that has taken thousands of lives at the entry of Europe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u140	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 194 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Aims at strengthening the means and powers of the Working Conditions Authority and ensuring the effectiveness of its intervention ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] With regard to draft resolution No 98/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes the consecration of a new mission for the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ), amending its scope of action, strengthening its powers and providing it with more means to combat precariousness ( BE) ( initial text replaced by the author ), the CDS-PP requested that the vote be made by point. Let us begin by voting on point 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, the CFP and the Greens, votes against the EB and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote on point 4 shall follow. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 5. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE and the PAN, votes against the CFP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 6. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us vote on point 7. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Finally, we shall vote on point 8. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 258 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the Working Conditions Authority by meeting the ILO ( PS ) Conventions. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 191 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Strategic plan for the implementation of organized and population-based screening in the areas of colon and rectum cancer, cervical cancer, breast cancer and diabetic retinopathy (The Greens). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 143 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of territorial coverage and equity in access to population-based oncological disease screenings ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] With regard to draft resolution No 255 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement a screening plan for cervical cancer and, as a preventive measure, establish a population awareness plan ( NAP), the CFP requested that points 1 and 2 be voted on separately and together. Let us start by voting on point 3. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We are voting together now on points 1 and 2. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 156 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Safeguarding the regularisation of livestock and other holdings by extending the period laid down in Decree-Law No 165 / 2014 ( PS ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the NAP.]] This diploma goes down to 7. the Commission. With regard to draft resolution No 161 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthening and extending the National Vaccination Programme ( BE ), the PS requested the separate vote of point 1 and points 2 and 3 together. We shall vote on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us vote together on points 2 and 3. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] As regards the vote on draft resolution No 254 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the National Vaccination Programme ( CFP ), the PS calls for the joint vote on points 1 and 2 and then also on points 3 to 6 together. Let us begin by voting together on points 1 and 2. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We are also voting together now on points 3 to 6. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 259 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a) — On updating the National Programme for Vaccination (The Greens). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 131 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the participation, by step A, of creams and compressive clothing for people burned when properly prescribed by the assistant physician or the Dermatology or Aesthetic Surgery ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and the CFP.]] With regard to draft resolution No 256 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to support and protect burned persons ( BE ), the PS together requests the vote of points 4 and 5 and then also together of points 1, 2, 3 and 6. Let us begin by voting together on points 4 and 5. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS, PS and CDS-PP were adopted.]] Let us now vote on points 1 to 3 and 6. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote for two applications, one submitted by the NAP and the other submitted by BE, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a vote for a period of 40 days on the drafts of lein. 174 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 by strengthening the protection regime in parenthood ( NAP ) and 176 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the initial parental leave and the period of exemption for breastfeeding ( BE ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] As a result, bills fall to 10. the Commission. Mrs. Members, in relation to the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on the projects of lein. 30 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the Electronic Communications Act. It sets limits on the binding of users for the settlement of contracts in the loyalty period ( tenth amendment to Law No 5 / 2004 of 10 February ) ( PCP ) and 32 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of customers of electronic communications services in loyalty contracts ( BE) ( The authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of this text) to compensate for the previous eight votes, I wonder if we can make the joint vote in general, in specialty and in global final.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u141	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u142	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u143	Mr President, we have now found that the replaced text of draft resolution No 98/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) where there are six points, except in the best opinion, do not appear in the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u144	I was told that they are on pages 7 and 8 of the script.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u145	Mr President, I request a 1 minute break so that we can consult the vote script. [[Pause.]] Mr. President, we can proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u146	We shall then, in general, vote on the text of substitution, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on the drafts of lein. 30 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Electronic Communications Act. It sets limits on the binding of users for the settlement of contracts in the loyalty period ( tenth amendment to Law No 5 / 2004 of 10 February ) ( PCP ) and 32 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of customers of electronic communications services in loyalty contracts ( BE) ( The authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of this text ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a little problem. The question of the eight points relating to draft resolution No 98 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) chases us, because after all there are not eight points, but six, since the text of the Left Block has been replaced — I did, in fact, warn at the beginning of the votes — and instead of eight points have six points. Since there is no way to solve this problem but to vote, let us do it. We can vote on the six points separately or then together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u147	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u148	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u149	Mr President, is it not possible to identify the items which are replaced and, depending on the renumbering, to allocate the vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u150	No, no, no. The Bureau has neither the capacity nor the intellectual willingness to do this work at this time. [[PS laughter.]] Let's vote for the six points...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u151	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u152	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u153	Mr President, before we begin this vote, just because it relates to the previous vote, I would like to say that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will deliver to the Bureau a written statement of vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on the drafts of lein. 30 and 32 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u154	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u155	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u156	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u157	Mr President, it is to inform that the replacement text concerning draft resolution No 98 / XIII has not been distributed at least on our bench ( 1 ). ( a ), which is why I only have the diploma with the eight points that we have voted separately. I would be grateful, if possible, that the Left Block or, then, the Bureau could distribute it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u158	If Parliamentary committees do not have the text, the Bureau does indeed have an obligation to distribute it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u159	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u160	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u161	Mr President, in fact the initial text of the draft resolution was replaced yesterday even before the discussion itself. When the discussion was made, the replacement text, instead of having eight, had six points. from the PCP side, the indication of vote we gave recently for the six points was already based on the final version of the text.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u162	But on the other side, it wasn't like that. However, the CFP also voted points 7 and 8, which do not exist. So you don't quite understand how you voted them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u163	Mr President, we had asked for the breakdown of points 2 and 5 only because it was in relation to those we had doubts. As for the other points, we voted in favour. Therefore, our vote is perfectly appropriate to the six points of the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u164	We will try to solve this issue in the most practical way, which is to vote on the real six points separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u165	Mr President, in agreement with this methodology, what we need is, in fact, the text with the new points to know what we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u166	The Bureau has already given instructions for the text to be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u168	Let's wait a few seconds, let's wait.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u169	Mr President, we are asking for a two-minute break so that we can check both texts and then we are in a position to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u170	So we started voting on these "extraordinary" six points from draft resolution No 98/ XIII ( 1 ) within 2 minutes. ( a). In the meantime, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will report to the Bureau on his file. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u171	Mr President, they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions 265 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the National Reform Plan, introduce a set of amendments to maintain a path of economic growth and employment ( CDS-PP ) and 267 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — In defence of the requalification of rail transport in the West Line as a regional development factor ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u172	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, are we in a position to vote? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the replaced text was sent yesterday to all parliamentary groups around 18 hours. [[Pause.]] We shall vote on point 1 of draft resolution No 98/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a)?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u173	Mr President, after this delay, in order to facilitate the work, we request a separate vote only from point 3.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u174	Mr President, since we have recently had this extraordinary practice, let us repeat it by voting on the six points separately!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u175	Of course, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-22.u176	We then moved on to draft resolution No 98/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes the consecration of a new mission for the Working Conditions Authority ( Acts ), amending its scope of action, strengthening its powers and providing it with more means to combat precariousness ( BE ) ( text replaced by the author ). We shall vote on point 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, the CFP and the Greens, votes against the EB and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 4. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 5. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE and the PAN, votes against the CFP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on point 6. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the epic of these various points and also of the end of this session. I recall that on April 25, Monday, there will be the Solemn Commemorative Session of 42. the anniversary of 25 April, beginning at 10 a.m. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a good weekend for all of us. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 39 minutes.]]
