ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4385	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 9th. Parliament resolution on the proposal for a European ==References====External links== Meeting of 31. Januaryes are present in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Hanger, Mag. Ovenauer, Herbert, Schartel and Steger. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4416	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Mr. Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is represented by Mr. Heinz-Christian Strache. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and Exterior Dr. Karin Kneissel is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Herbert Kickl. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 10.45. ORF III forwards this meeting in full duration, sending that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.40 p.m. [[09:02:08]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4476	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Safety offensive for Austria!” Mr Walter Rosenkranz was the first to speak. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4503	Mr President. High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Security offensive is the subject of this current hour. We liberals have gone into the election campaign, logically continuing the policy of recent years to position us as a clear security party. If it's called a security offensive today, then I can assure you all that it's not going to be this one step that's now on the agenda to make Austria safer. You see here on the Government Bank Minister; I see, for example, the Minister for Defence, who is also responsible for safety, I see the Minister for Transport, and also the safety of transport is very important, but today is particularly about the issues of internal safety. That is why I am pleased to welcome our Minister of the Interior Herbert Kickl to us at this current hour, which will make further statements. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] What's this about? – It is about simply making this country and, in particular, citizens in that country safer. What does this concept of security mean in the narrower sense? – It means the prevention of crimes and, if they happen unfortunately, the investigation of crimes. There's nothing more to it, but there's nothing less to it. It can be seen that criminals – and that was actually the case at all times of history – wanted to take advantage of and want to take advantage of a technical advantage. Now there are methods for asking: Well, if the state contains these methods of technology, does it promote crime? And that's how you get into a field of tension. The field of tension is simple and simple: the protection of fundamental and freedom rights in the private sector. We liberals have also made it quite clear to us that we are a fundamental right party from our tradition. It is precisely in this field of tension that we must move if we are to respect fundamental rights on the one hand, but, on the other hand, to protect our citizens from attacks. One thing can't happen – and I'm saying this to some of those who have already spoken out of the opposition calls – namely that they say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – I come later to why this is already happening – but if something happens, a terrorist attack – we have already seen this in Europe abroad, when on Christmas markets some people drive in with their trucks and kill people, or how it happened in France – to say: Yes, but the Minister of the Interior is guilty, because he didn't do everything he could to prevent that! No, a freedom of the interior minister can't stand up and after an arbitrary attack – in which it may have been injured, God guarded, dead, perhaps even dead children, as it was – say: Well, I'm sorry, I didn't do everything! - That can't happen. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The prevention of crimes will never succeed in 100%, but if something has happened, you have to be able to say with a calm conscience: I did everything I could to prevent it. That's the claim we make. Of course, the intervention in fundamental rights happens, but the question is: When and how? – There are clear limits for this. It is now being tried to present it in this way – these expressions have already fallen – that the government, in the case of parliamentary decision-making, now suspects all citizens of this country. I can immediately reject that very clearly and also justify it. Why? – It is as follows: The intervention in fundamental rights can only happen if there is a corresponding initial suspicion and if – and this is especially important for us liberals – there is the appropriate legal protection. That's not police arbitrariness. It is presented in this way: Well, there are some cops there, who might be a bit of a fad in the night shift, and they say we're looking at a bit in the computer, let's watch some surveillance cameras or something like that! - No, it doesn't play that way. For us in our rule of law, one still counts: We have in addition to the executive and in addition to the legislative, the legislative, also the judicial, speaking: the independent court, and this has a high priority for us. We trust not only the Austrian police, but also the Austrian judiciary that it will deal with all these means accordingly. And this is not about the very often strained little hendldieb, but about becoming a master of terrorism, anti-state action, criminality, such as drug trafficking in the big style; it is really not about small things. We believe that this legal protection will be ensured. We were also skeptical in some measures – and this is now even interpreted as a crasher – but we, when the so-called State Protection Act came together – it was the no longer in our midst of our colleague Pilz, who did so with us, brought a complaint to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has given us an order for action, a little bit of a supplement, has clearly stated when and under what circumstances it is possible to actually intervene, with judicial control as the decisive factor. Building on these things, we now have a security package from the interior; it has just built on certain things that have already been reviewed. Some things have also been negotiated, but one has agreed to bring them into the parliamentary process and to decide for a safe Austria. If you want to work with apples and pears now, I can quote something because I find it almost grotesque. I am not going to deal now with the admissions of Mr Altbundeskanzler's core, which is not here at all. Mr. Schieder, what did you mean? – You said: It's bad, you have to be afraid if the Herbert Kickl learns something about it as an interior minister. Now one thing: Lifelong learning is something that we have always been prescribed by a red Minister of Education. [[Abg. Jarolim: The question is what he learns about it!]] Mr Jarolim, you will be allowed to report afterwards. Now, of course, you're getting a little bit more in the juice, but that's also good when we catch you at a wound point. I'll tell you one thing: People who learn to learn forever and who learn all their lives don't have to be afraid. But, Mr Schieder, if you are acting like this with your all-knowing claim, you will not be surprised if you even fail in your own party in Vienna, because someone who is completely omniscient needs to be afraid of that; you clearly belong to it when you are almost omniscient. [[Abg. Arbitrators: smoke yourself!]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] No, we are developing further as the country is developing. A small comment on this: Mr Schnabl of the Social Democracy of Lower Austria said: ‘The extension of the car registration [...] by the registration of handlebars, markings as well as car mark, type and color are measures that Schnabl rejects’. What's this about? – It’s not about every car driver now being lighted right away, it’s about the ropes. I admit, that's a certain antiquiet term: the aftertaste. But it's about the fact that until now, if it's said, a bank robber has fled, we have a car mark that assignors have said, the car has this or that color and so on. Why? – Because the police also have a right to know, there may be a dangerous car, and to be able to prepare for it accordingly, because before he can read the numbering taferl, he may already be in danger himself. And then it can be heard from a former police general that such measures, which serve to protect police, are rejected! I am certainly not a friend of the former ÖVP interior minister Strasser, but when I read this, I think he made the right decision that he has deposed this police general who does not want to stand up for his police officers. In my opinion, this is a completely unheard-of opinion, and above all it is also factually wrong. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Security policy in this country must clearly look different. I've already said it: Victims have a technical advantage, and it would be negligent not to pick up this technical advantage – under strict judicial supervision. What has been said about the parliamentary process – and that from here on –, driving or the like: We have already reviewed the various measures, but – and this is addressed to the representatives of the opposition – we will be addressing all the political groups today in order to, of course, bring opportunities into the committee to enter the parliamentary process; there are proposals for a committee opinion; there are proposals for expert hearing; we will make such a point of course. There will be talks about this today, because it is important to us. We will not push through anything, we will hear and weigh arguments. This is how freedom policy, together with our partner ÖVP, looks like.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4592	The Federal Minister for the Interior, Herbert Kicklzu, has a preliminary opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4617	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! I am very pleased that in the course of this current hour we have the opportunity to discuss the issue of security, which is being debated quite controversially, on a very essential aspect, namely from the point of view of an offensive, because I believe that there is a need for an offensive in this area. At the beginning, I would like to start with a very, very general question: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what do you believe? Are you really what we as politicians are for in a democracy? What do you think we're for? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] From my point of view – Mr Jarolim, you should listen very carefully! – we are here to take the concerns and fears of the population seriously and to work to take the appropriate measures to reduce these fears. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] This is a very, very crucial point. I call that, according to what we have experienced in recent years, a reflection on essential virtues of political action. This federal government is committed to this reflection, which is one of the noblest and one of the most important tasks of politics. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this spirit of this task, we have written our government programme and in this spirit we are going step by step to implement the appropriate measures across all areas of politics. When I talk about the concerns and needs of the population, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of security is at the very heart of the focus and the focus of attention: Security – I am talking about its protection, I am talking about its defence, I am talking about its expansion and I am talking about its preservation also in connection with democracy, the rule of law as such and, of course, in connection with civil liberties. This is not a contradiction, but these are two components that complement each other. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you, especially from the opposition, to rejoice with us. We welcome the fact that in times when we need to save from many, many misjudgments in the past, security will not be saved! This is a cause for joy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We welcome the fact that we have more money at our disposal in the security area, which enables us to get an ambitious staff package on the way! 2 000 training plans more, 2 000 planning posts more for executives,4 000 over the entire period: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] We thus close an essential gap in the security area. This allows us more presence – and more presence is a guarantee of better and more effective prevention. This ensures a relief at the overtime, which motivates the employees rather than further frustration them, which obviously would be the idea of the left in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are also able to provide the corresponding human responses to challenges of the future. You can still wish for it so much, crime continues to develop, the challenges confront us with new tasks.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4704	I ask you to abandon this in this form and restore the dignity of the House. I'll interrupt the meeting and ask the clubmen to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4735	I can resume the interrupted meeting and ask the Federal Minister to proceed.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4754	Thank you, Mr President. . I must say quite honestly to you that I am not at all unhappy about this measure you have put in here because it shows one very clearly and clearly: where in this House are the forces that drive a responsible policy, and where those who obviously cannot really deal with the concept of responsibility. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You have to let that happen when you work with such actions. Ladies and gentlemen! When I speak of a security offensive, I am not only talking about the personnel offensive I have just referred to, I am also talking about a return offensive, which is a very, very essential concern that this federal government is pursuing. I can inform you that we have achieved a significantly higher value in the number of returns in the January of this year than in the January of the previous year. This too is an important contribution to security in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] When I speak of a security offensive, I am of course also talking about the so-called security package, and I think that this package is perfectly correct. I will now tell you a few things and ask you to listen so that you do not continue your own prejudices on glue, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the Pilz list! [[Call at the list of mushrooms.]] This security package, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, is not a dangerous monitoring package for the masses. This is a false claim, because it is specifically produced false images to insure the population. I think this is unscrupulous, and I honestly tell you that I think it is irresponsible. And if you put it a little more clearly on the point, I could say that I think it is inappropriate fear-making, which is being operated here. No, ladies and gentlemen, the security package is something like a firewall. The security package is a protective shield for the population. What is the protection against the population? – It is protected from criminal activities by individuals, i.e. the mass is protected by monitoring individuals on occasion and on judicial approval. What kind of individuals are they, ladies and gentlemen? – These are persons who are suspected of having committed a serious crime, or of whom we know they have committed such a crime, and who are being arrested. These are not the hendldiebes and these are not the people who, on Sunday, may forget to throw a few cents at the newsstand, but we are talking about serious crimes, we are talking about extremism, we are talking about terrorism, and we are talking about organized crime, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am convinced that these elements of the soil must be removed as far as possible. We all in here know exactly one thing: Due to a judicial order – exactly such a judicial arrangement as that I have now spoken about – a reasonable suspicion against a single person or group – and if I speak of groupings, then we are in organized crime, then we are in trafficking in human beings and in the trafficking of human beings, then we are already under supervision in the drug trafficking and in these things – already today the fixed network of this person; it is already possible to monitor the mobile phone of this person, it is already possible to monitor the SMS correspondence of this person, and it is already possible to monitor the e-mail correspondence of this person. And I think it is good that we have these opportunities for the investigative authorities, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What must not be monitored is the area of WhatsApp and other messenger services in this context. This is precisely what these criminals know, they know, and therefore they are turning out to these areas precisely because they feel safe there because they feel safe there and because they can do their criminal activities to all our harms there until now. – Do you really want to take the responsibility that this huge gap, this securely unprocessed field, remains open to these criminals? Do you want to assume this responsibility? Ladies and gentlemen, I couldn't sleep for a minute, if I didn't do everything I could to close this vulnerability. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] I'll get it to the point, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Not the Trojan, who on the phone of a single suspect on occasion and on judge- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I can therefore ask you to act inconspicuously and to avoid unnecessary anxiety; for what you are doing is to create a picture from time to time, as if everyone in Austria were listening to it as if everyone on his phone had implemented such a Trojan. – That’s totally displeasing! Only when suspicion exists against a single person, protected by an ordinary legal package, will this measure be taken as one of the last possible measures to be taken in the fight against criminals and against organized criminals. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, another example is the registration of a mark. You know very well that there are already registration systems. Number panels are recorded automatically, and these number plates are compared. Yes, with what are these number boards compared? – You will be compared to a search file, ladies and gentlemen, and you won’t get into a search file without further notice. If there is an automated matching of these numbering boards, then the individual case we are talking about will occur again. In this individual case of conformity, the new possibilities will also ensure that we come to more information about this vehicle. Then we don't only know the numbering board, we also know: That's a red vehicle, that's this and that brand, and there's this and that person at the wheel. We do not do this from Jux and Tollery, ladies and gentlemen, but that is why we do so so so that we can stop this vehicle accordingly and get out of traffic and not to put our police officers at risk in the exercise of office. This is all a contribution to safety, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to appeal to you: The measures of this security package – I mentioned only two of them, one could do it all – are targeted, they are correct, they are dosed, they are, in order to formulate it in this way, almost surgically precise, they are specific, and they are equipped with a corresponding package of legal remedies. I believe we have succeeded in finding the right measure here between what the maintenance and promotion of security require, and what is necessary to protect fundamental and freedom rights. That is why I ask you to be honest and to support this course of security.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4880	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Werner Amon is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4904	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This was an interesting demonstration of the remaining representatives of the so-called Pilz list, but I am not quite sure what that was, because the Ashindi is already past itself on Wednesday, a traditional parchment run it was, I don't think, even; therefore, it is still questionable that there is a crime against the ban on the full covert. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Deimek]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Minister of the Interior, I think the taxpayer can be pleased with small revenue from administrative penalties, which may be suspended here – I do not know exactly –. At any rate, I think this is a little distraction from the list of mushrooms and individual representatives from the fact that they already have a fierce internal discussion about who finally released the mandate for Peter Pilz, who did not accept his mandate because of serious accusations of sexual harassment. [[Abg. Rossmann: Were you there?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] On the one hand, a violation of the ban on the full cover, on the other hand a Peter Pilz, who has not accepted the mandate because of serious accusations of sexual harassment, so I think this party and the security debate, is somehow not going together, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kolba]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rossmann and Mr Zadić]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Because you tried to present it here as if it were a general surveillance: You know, this has always been a bit misunderstood by the very left-wing forces in this country, because instead of putting the victim protection at the centre, you have always taken the data protection for it to actually make a perpetrator protection. [[Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber: You can't misunderstand that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] I tell you, this is the completely wrong approach you have here. We presented a package here, which the Federal Government issued on 21 December. It has already been decided in the last legislative period – for six weeks – that a long review has been carried out; over 9 000 opinions have been submitted, depending on the assessment. This is a package that is well-balanced, focused on the individual case, ensuring that measures are not put in place without the involvement of the Ministry of the Interior's Legal Protection Officer, that measures are not implemented without judicial involvement. This is a well-balanced package, ladies and gentlemen, which we will now discuss and deal with in committee with all the parliamentary possibilities we find in the Rules of Procedure. The representation you have made, an uncertainty, general surveillance of the population, a planless data collection, as some states may do, is not true. You can also see from the very short memory regulations that exist – 14 days, a maximum of four weeks in individual areas – that we are doing very, very sensitive, very reticent, ladies and gentlemen. Security is important to us. It is so strictly regulated at the time of registration that there is hardly any potential for abuse. It is simply a question of the need for us to respond to the new technologies, what is always called the Federal Trojans. It may not be that organised crime is protected in the area of messenger services, which do not offer a chance to monitor if there is a specific occasion. Who do you want to protect, ladies and gentlemen? Who do you want to protect? I believe that in these cases, with the involvement of the legal protection officer, it must be very possible, with the involvement of a judge, to carry out appropriate monitoring. Of course, registration with the prepaid cards makes sense with the value card mobile phones, because it is like absurd that we open organized crime by means of so-called disposable handsys door and gate. So if you want to protect all of them, ladies and gentlemen, you are certainly not a guarantee of security in Austria. This federal government takes this seriously and does it.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4998	Mrs Angela Lueger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5030	Mr President. Mr. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The security package and its history: ==References== The Ministry of Justice sent the old security package in review on July 17, 1917. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] ==References== ==References== Many comments have been received on August. [[Federal Minister Kickl: (head chief) 1917?]] [[Abg. Rosary: Is a fairly long review!]] It has even gone so far that the Ministry of Justice has temporarily blocked the mails with which opinions have been received. Thus, thousands of people have been ignored who gave an opinion at the time – and these are not any people, and there are also institutions of which that really deal in detail with data protection: Epicenter.works, the Supreme Court, ISPA, the Social Democratic Lawyers, Kija, the Office of the Government of Vienna, the Red Cross; over 9 000 people have given critical opinions. [[Abg. Belakovich: 9 000 people and eight million...!]] And then came the 26.7. On 26.7. of the previous year, the then non-minister Kickl stood up and made the following issue – if you say today, Minister, that it is not a dangerous monitoring package, not for the masses, and it is insidious to criticise it, then I would like you once again with your statements of 26.7. [[Call the FPÖ:1917!]] [[Abg. Rosary: So a hundred years later!]] confront –: “The security package of the ÖVP is dangerous threat and is rejected by the FPÖ”, a “paper of graces”, it marks the “authoritarian thought pattern [...], which is also reflected in their state-political ideas” – listen further! – a comparison with the “Phantasias of Erich Mielke” and “Critical of the lawyer-president Rupert Wolff”, who at the time also said that by this law you have the hair of mountains, “DDR 4.0”. [[Abg. Kassinger: Are we talking about the same thing now? Is the security package...?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: This is another...!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Kassinger]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Cashier: Just because it's a security package, it's not the same!]] You said at the time, Minister, that this law would open a pointed system door and gate for and it would never be the FPÖ's business and not in the interest of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Haider: By the law of that time!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Listen! Listen!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Kickl.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Then Sobotka goes out and makes a press conference in which he says that all inside and outside the Parliament, who are opposed to legal adjustments, are planning an attack on Austrian security. What happens in the Council of Ministers last week? [[Abg. Belakovich: Were you there?]] [[Abg. Höbart: You're not there anymore!]] This is where the new security package will be decided. [[Abg. Rosary: The new one, exactly!]] Mr Kickl, you have said that I do not think it is forbidden to be failed – I think that is quite positive – but it is about the largest surveillance package in the Second Republic! [[Abg. Belakovich: This is what has not yet happened to you! That would be time now!]] Look at what happens to IT panels alone in the ministries! If you're talking about security now, Minister, then it's gone. In connection with the two popular desires for which support declarations can currently be made, there was talk of system crashes for days, there were long waiting times, one speaks of server plans, one speaks of problems with the central electorate evidence. You don't really know where the problem actually is, you said at that time – a bad one who now thinks in connection with the old security package evil. Until last Friday, the Ministry of Interior's website did not go, and many experts, such as Cert.at's, say that there are no secure connections. If I look at the monitoring package that is now being re-submitted, I have to say: Yes, there are changes. For example, the retention periods are extended from three to five years or from one year to three years. We will still have many opportunities to discuss and discuss all of this. I think it is very positive that, as I have heard today, there should be a committee opinion and an expert hearing. If you are saying today that it is about strengthening the fight against serious crime and against anti-state terrorism and also the subjective sense of security, I would like to answer: Your own Director-General for Public Security has meant that we are well positioned, as the criminal statistics show. [[Abg. Rosary: After that we don't need any more cops at all, actually!]] The ads are going back, the intelligence rate is increasing, only in cybersecurity, we are very bad – and I am not talking about economic crime at all. Minister, since you're the cops earlier – these do excellent work! – and mentioned the topic of overtime: There is already a holiday ban for the time of the EU Presidency. I'm excited how the police can reduce their overtime. And with regard to the development of staff, which we have been hearing for a very long time, which is to take place by 2022, I am excited whether this one – we will soon discuss and decide on the budget – will be eligible for funding. Minister! Review, expert hearing – yes! No suspicion of the population, no mass surveillance! Minister, life is not a pony court. Take care of these things and forget about equestrian fantasies!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5326	Next item is the report by Mr Johann Gudenus. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5347	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have followed my previous speaker's speech very closely and can see the following: First of all, we respect your opinion – no question at all. [[Abg. Sherak: That's nice!]] We respect as a government party Your opinion, but please put your opinion with a little more idea! [[Abg. Scherak: Here you go!]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] You can't compare apples to pears. You are talking about a security package that you think was launched in 1917 – you said it was a hundred years later – about a security package a year ago, which is different from the security package we are talking about today. These are two pairs of shoes! [[Abg. Arbitrators: But now explain the differences!]] Our Minister for the Interior Kickl has already made a number of amend ments, namely, in the sense of the rule of law and in the sense of fundamental rights and civil rights, and that is a good thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: What are the differences?]] I even wonder if I hear the statements from the opposition – here and also in the media – where there is the reason for excitement, if after many years of uncertainty the population finally wants to achieve more security. Where does the excitement really come from? 2015 – red Chancellor – open borders, increase crime, increase sexual assaults, 54 percent increase crime among asylum seekers. – All of this has caused you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, and now you are making yourself up and raining up if you want to ensure more safety. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The former Federal Chancellor and his predecessor, but also the former head of the ÖBB – how did he say?, I think, core – have made sure that the borders were as open as barn gates and more uncertainty and crime were imported into Austria and Europe. [[Abg. Wittmann: Who was there Minister of the Interior?]] [[Further call at SPÖ:Learn history!]] This is your failure, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, and we will end that. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Now we have an interior minister who is driving all over Austria, who is driving to the citizens who press the shoe, and who is also looking where the police may be somewhat too well equipped there or there, for example in Carinthia, in Klagenfurt. There is now a need to ensure that more police are present in front of the main station to ensure more safety. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Why didn't this make the predecessor?]] The Federal Minister came, the Minister of State saw, and the Minister of State provides more security, and that is a good thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To the next point: Of course, this so-called Federal Trojan is also very important and very good to ensure that any future terrorist attacks by radical Islamists are stopped. [[Abg. Arbitrator: This was rejected by parliamentman Kickl at the time!]] We had to experience many attacks throughout the EU, and we had to see that many asylum seekers who came across the Balkan route, across the open borders – at the time you were responsible – were also responsible. [[towards SPÖ]] It is therefore good that we now finally have the opportunity, while respecting citizens' rights, to ensure that such terrorist activities are recognised and restrained at an early stage. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we ensure more security in Austria! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As mentioned earlier, more than 4,000 police officers in Austria, more than 2 000 planning places and more than 2 100 training places in Austria, are able to increase not only the subjective sense of security of people, but also the objective security here in Austria. I can remember how many times, when I was still working in Vienna's Landtag, Mayor Häupl reminded of the failure of SPÖ and promised that there will be more 1 000 police officers in Vienna. – Nothing of that we have seen! However, an interior minister Kickl makes it possible. I say thank you very much – as an Austrian, as a citizen, as a Vienna, as someone who wants security to be raised again in our hometown. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5534	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5556	Perhaps a word on the ÖVP for a moment: Mr Amon, you are right, it is not an inadmissible mass surveillance. If it had happened after you, it would be exactly that, so in that respect it is something positive that the liberals have introduced in this regard. Your idea, the idea of the monitoring party ÖVP, has always been the insatiable mass surveillance, which you have proved sufficient in recent decades. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] Mr Rosenkranz! Mr Gudenus! The debate can be held differently. Mr. Federal Minister Kickl, yes, you have negotiated things, you have to be able to do that without further delay. In the future, these measures should only be in the event of an initial suspicion, a judicial approval should be required in the future, and, I have already said, if it had gone to the EIA, it would have been without it all. However, this does not change the fact that you are at last very likely to participate in your coalition partner's unrestrained surveillance fantasies. We have already heard the history: They talked about Stasi methods and GDR. And you have now agreed that you would like to have honest information, and said that you should not spread false claims. Mr Amon spoke of all these left-wing critics in Austria. Mr Amon, the Austrian Bar Association is a hort of the left-hand side whatever? – You have to explain this to your ÖVP colleagues in the Bar Association. I don't think so. [[Abg. Rädler: (to the speaker point out) You were meant!]] Also, the association of all computer science faculty in Austria, I believe, is in and for itself not what can be perceived as left-hand – correct information and false claims, Federal Minister Kickl. You compared the Bundestrojan with the possibility of monitoring the fixed network, that a fixed network connection or a mobile phone can be heard in the event of a corresponding initial suspicion. Mr Gudenus has just said that we want to prevent terrorist crimes in the Federal Republic of Germany. But you have obviously not been sufficiently concerned with this mechanism of the Federal Trojan. The Federal Trojan wants to do exactly what normally terrorists do. As the Federal Government, they deliberately adopt IT security and assume that we are opening security gaps – and they are precisely these vulnerabilities that are then used by terrorists who commit terrorist crimes in the form of cybercrime. That's the big problem. You would have to deal with these technical details, and then you would have to prevent such a thing accordingly. [[Congratulation with NEOS and List Pilz, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] They act just like all the criminals, all the hackers, deliberately leaving the security gaps open. You have to keep these gaps open in the future, of course, so that the Federal Trojan can go in there too, and this is dangerous to the Austrian population in a sustainable way. In the package is Quick Freeze inside. Yes, I'm right, in principle, Quick Freeze is something better than the inadequate data storage, only: What you call Quick Freeze here is quite far away from what you actually understand as Quick Freeze. There is a much longer data storage, there is no limitation of the people, there is no spatial limitation – in that case this is also problematic. You want next – this part you did not even address – the possibility of accessing video and audio recordings in public space. In principle, I find it alarming when the police can access all cameras in public space, and I find this even more disturbing when you know how the software is developing for automatic facial recognition. This is, of course, the step towards a comprehensive surveillance state because you create these opportunities. The problem is, where the possibilities are available, there is also always abuse vulnerability, and this is the great danger: They create opportunities, and sometime exactly these possibilities will also be used. They have addressed road traffic surveillance. In the future, it will be possible to record the entire identification marks, the car type, the brand, the data of the handlebar, and you want the localization of devices by IMSI-Catcher. These are all monitoring technologies that can be far more than what you have in the law. You want the registration requirement for prepaid SIM cards. They want the expansion of the noise attack. You want to limit the secrecy of the letter – this is one of the fundamental and oldest fundamental rights in Austria, and you want to restrict this fundamental right! They want to establish a blockwart mentality in Austria through security forums. There are huge problems, that's dangerous! This is not a security package, it is one of the biggest security packages we have ever had in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5610	I would ask you to take back “block-war mentality”.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5637	I take back “block wart mentality”, which does not change the fact that the safety forums represent something dangerous. The FPÖ has now announced that it wants a committee opinion, an expert hearing. I'll take her by the word. I think this is absolutely necessary. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, I really ask you for one, and I know that this is in principle also a concern to you: In connection with data protection, don't let ÖVP pull over the table and stop with this act of attack on freedom, privacy and the rule of law in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5674	Mrs Alma Zadić is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5693	Mr President. High house! This current hour has started very unusually – I hope it is good for him! – but we had no other choice. [[Abg. Rosary: Yes, Mr. Kickl first put on such a suit as you now wear!]] The action has led you to see what is to be adopted today, not a security package, but a monitoring package – and the whole thing without review, without involving the population and taking into account the opinion of the experts. So you prove what you think of Parliament, of debates, of expert opinions and of our urgent warnings – nothing, nothing at all. If the spoken word does not wake you up, hopefully our figurative illustration. The monitoring package contains a large increase in surveillance powers, the largest in the history of the Second Republic. Over the last few days, we have received over 5 000 e-mails on this subject. The population is very worried. It is concerned that our free and open society is victims of apparent security, a subjective sense of security. Such a sensitive matter, ladies and gentlemen, must not be decided behind closed doors. The surveillance state must not be smuggled into the law like the Trojan horse in Parliament. But what's so bad about this monitoring package? A lot of people say that nothing can happen to me as an unspoiled citizen. [[Abg. Rosary: That's right!]] It is only those who are suspected of commit terrorist, radical or serious crimes that must be feared. [[Abg. Rosary: Right!]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that's not the case, that's not the case at all, and I want to show you briefly why. The Federal Trojan is a malicious software that allows the government to penetrate our phones and computer systems without notice. [[Abg. Rosary: Why in yours? What does “in ours ” mean?]] Thus, it accesses all the data, both in the mobile phone and in our computer. [[Abg. Rosary: You said “in ours”! What does “in ours ” mean?]] This comes from a house search, but it's much worse, and I'll tell you right away, Mr Rosenkranz, why. This software can only be installed unnoticed in our computer system if we leave vulnerabilities open if we leave the operating system vulnerable. This means that the state must buy these vulnerabilities like some criminal organizations and keep them secret, and much more: The state is interested in keeping these vulnerabilities open, and that's why I'm worried. These vulnerabilities endanger each one of us, and these vulnerabilities endanger our state. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: So criminals are allowed to buy, but the state is not?]] So, dear Federal Government, open the door to cybercrime. I would like to say something about cybercrime: Fortunately, the general crime figures are falling while the investigation rate is rising, so I would like to thank our police very much for this great work. [[Abg. Rosary: No applause from the list of mushrooms!]] But there's an area that's actually booming, and that's cybercrime. Compared to last year, cybercrime has increased by one third, and studies also show that three quarters of our companies were affected by cybercrime. The disclosure of security gaps, of weaknesses in the system is grossly negligent, yes, our criminal law even speaks of favor; therefore, you could also make yourself contributors in this case. [[Abg. Gudenus: Anything else?- Oh, my God!]] If you believe, Mr. Interior Minister, that you could keep these security gaps secret, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the US-American foreign intelligence service NSA has also believed that it is possible to keep Windows security gaps secret. We've seen what happened after WannaCry. The information on these vulnerabilities has become the hands of criminals, and this has led to the paralysing of the British health system, that companies have been extorted, that a billion-dollar damage has arisen. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] In addition, many other horrors, which have already been spoken of today, include central and comprehensive video surveillance in public places. We will be monitored by the government in the future on a step-by-step basis. It has an advantage: We don't need to shoot the family photos ourselves anymore, we can get them from our Interior Minister. [[Abg. Rosary: Is this a contribution to the scientific discussion now?]] This measure and many others are massively restricting our freedom. This freedom is the foundation of our lively civil society and a functioning democracy. Dear FPÖ, it's up to you! Don't become the tool of the ÖVP monitors! Stay faithful to your voters!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5869	The next item is the speech by Mr Karl Mahrer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5890	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers! First of all, I should like to focus very briefly on the words of the last two speakers: I often ask you not to distrust the Federal Government on a flat-rate basis, and above all not to distrust the police and not to believe that they are misusing their rights, but rather to support the police in their day-to-day work, in the course of which they use their lives for our security. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: We distrust the law!]] Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important objectives of this federal government is to make Austria even safer and also to ensure that people in this country feel safe, because you all know that only those who live in security can ultimately live in freedom. There is a need for sufficient staff to do so today. To do this, we need to hold back the police and to do so we also need up-to-date laws. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also a matter of holding back the police, which for me is very clear from today's discussion. We therefore support Federal Minister Herbert Kickl and also State Secretary Edtstadler in their project to introduce significantly higher threats of criminal and minimum penalties in the event of attacks on police officers. Of course, the safety package is especially important to me because of my professional origin. Ladies and gentlemen, this safety package was already in detailed review last year. I would like to express my thanks to Federal Minister Kickl for creating a government template that we can deal with in Parliament quickly and quickly, taking into account numerous remarks and suggestions. What's this about? – It is about modern investigation methods, it is about adapting to technical circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, an example: The daily “Der Standard” quotes a report from the Radio and Telekom Regierungs-GmbH RTR. Thus, the “number of calls in the fixed and mobile network [...] decreased by 13 percent between 2012 and 2016, the number of SMS by 61 percent.” We also know that the Austrians over 16 years use 73 percent WhatsApp. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore urgently necessary and perfectly logical that police officers should be allowed to monitor the Internet-based communication of suspects in cases of serious crime, in the case of such suspicions in the individual case – and this was also contained in the original version of the government template – including the involvement of the entire legal protection system, the judicial order, the legal protection officer. That's important. The registration of the prepaid SIM cards is equally important. It can't be that criminals use mobile phones anonymously! I also see the use of video surveillance of public and private institutions as very positive. We will also treat this intensively in the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the new security package not only offers many ways to combat crime, but – and that also appeals to me personally – also strengthens the subjective sense of security of the people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Why? – From many years of experience, I know that people’s security can be strengthened by finding solutions to security issues at regional level, involving people. I am therefore pleased that the safety forums, which are also the core of the joint initiative, are now also covered by this legal regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, also from the SPÖ, by the way: These security forums are already a reality in Vienna in cooperation and in partnership with the city of Vienna. Legal anchorage will significantly improve the exchange of information. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: I'm on my way as a police officer to many police stations. I can assure you: The police are very grateful to this Federal Government for more staff, for more retention and for current laws. I am also very busy with people in this country. People want one: They want us to keep election promises. The government parties comply with what they promised before the election. We have promised that Austria will become even more secure that people can feel safe. Ladies and gentlemen, we are keeping this promise step by step and very reliable!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5942	Mr Johannes Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5963	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister Kickl, I am quite right in giving you that you have taken over more or less a heap of rubble – so you can almost call it – to the Ministry of the Interior and now, of course, try to build something positive from the whole thing. To the police, Mr Mahrer, I would like to say that the police are actually those who really have come under the wheels in the system that has ruled under the ÖVP for ten years. You can believe us: We are interested in the fact that it is better for them, because it really makes it possible to achieve security, not with this peculiar security package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] But something else surprises me, also on the part of the FPÖ: At the request of the ÖVP – I suppose this is from the Federal Chancellor – we are discussing this security package, which will be under discussion in three months, at a time when we would have to discuss quite different things. Once again, there is a distraction maneuver, for example, from the ban on smoking. That's what's being discussed today, right now, behind the doors. We are faced with the fact that a FPÖ, which has always declared in the election campaign that there should be a referendum in the case of 100,000 signatures, now, in the case of 400,000 signers of a popular desire, continues to try not only to prevent smoking but also to prevent a law that has been decided by a large majority here in the house. [[Abg. Gudenus: Introduction!]] [[Abg. Rosary: But that's also an election promise - -!]] That's an eclate, that's a disregard for the constituency! [[Abg. Rosary: It is a pity that Mr Jarolim is not present at FPÖ elections...!]] I think you need not only to be ashamed, but also to make it clear to the people outside, how you actually get it! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] Next case, adult protection law: Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing that a law that we have agreed to with 100 per cent – everyone has agreed! – at least once for two years to be delayed. The then Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Justice is up on land, running around the country in the election campaign and has sold it as his success. [[Abg. Gudenus: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Rosary: That's all wrong!]] [[Vice Chancellor Strache: That's not true!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the letters from the Minister of Justice have already arrived at the authorities, and people have begun to reduce the number of their employees. It's embarrassing! I don't know what these poor people did to you that you were so cruel here. In any case, we will resist, you can be sure! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: (in the direction of ÖVP) Who makes the actual correction? Are you doing that? Is your minister?]] Now on the matter: Of course, we also want to fight crime, which is no question at all. But this package is likely to be very difficult. I did not understand at all – I thank you, Minister of the Interior, you have finally scratched the curve – that this should not go into consideration. I can also tell you why: The judges' association, the prosecutors, university professors, the universities themselves and also the board of lawyers have vehement objections. I ask you: What do you have against the voice of reason? It is not possible to do so with emotions and reason why the population is being precipitated: We're doing better now! – The measures that could actually make everything better, namely that you finally pick up at the police, but are not put in place. We will also see to it that this is really coming and that the people also know about it. I can only say one thing: You really can't fall around any more than the FPÖ is acting here. Federal Minister Kickl, I still admired your speeches before the National Council election when you explained here why this was all crazy. All of a sudden, it all sounds completely different. Apart from the Federal Trojan, which we are still discussing, I would like to take this madness of the security forums again: We are faced with the fact that there are people in need of communication to be involved in the private sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mahrer.]] They are then accepted by the police so that you get special information; they then explain in their area: Yes, on Stiege 3 on the second floor is someone we look at, and on Stiege 1 too. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the block system we know from the Third Reich! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: excuse me!]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] That certainly can't be with us...
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6139	I would ask you to take back this expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6162	What we really need is at last 1,000 police officers – 1 300 we have promised –; no unnecessary writing work for police officers; [[Abg. New builder: I want you to take this back!]] Speed measurements can be made by radar, we do not need to use people; and finally the personnel and technical equipment of our police. Ladies and gentlemen, which is not known: The technical equipment of the police in this country is one of the worst in all of Europe, and then the poor devils are really looking for something! [[Abg. Gudenus: Twelve years of red Chancellor!]] There you should invest something there! [[Call the FPÖ: Just like you! Just like you did for years!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I was told myself, for example, when I gave a police officer documents on the fourth floor that this was bad luck, because the copyer was on the first floor. [[Call the FPÖ: Ten years promised, nothing kept!]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] – ÖVP: ten, 15 years, ladies and gentlemen! I can only tell you one thing: Against all that you're trying to put the country on its head, at the expense of the poor, at the expense of those in need, we're going to be very vehement so that you won't destroy this republic that we've built together. You can take poison on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6255	Mr Jarolim, for the term ‘blockwart’, since you do not take him back, I give you a call for order. [[Call the SPÖ:Since when is this an order call?]] [[Abg. Rosary: The term “blockwart” is already negatively connoted...!]] Mr Erwin Anger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6307	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! High house! First of all, perhaps to Mr Jarolim: Please stop your fake news, Mr. Jarolim, on the back of the disabled! The Adult Protection Act enters into force, as it is foreseen, and what you have claimed today is simply false. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: With financing!]] But now back to the topic of this current hour, to the subject of security: Maybe each one of you has a friend or several friends who moved it abroad. I have a friend who lives in Chile, he has his family there, he has built up his existence there. Like any married Carinthian, it naturally withdraws him to his home country, and a few years ago we were eaten together and he said: What really is going on in my new home country of Chile is the security you have here in your country, in your home country, in our Carinthia, in our Austria. Be careful that this is the way it is! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] Today, a few years later, we need to discuss this security issue and launch a security offensive because a left government here in Vienna and in Carinthia left us a huge security problem and seriously damaged security in that country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Sorry?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I often wonder whether this was calculating – which would be very bad – or a strategy or just a political failure. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig:... refusal of reality!]] I often ask this question. Let's see what you've done to the federal army: downgraded, deprived of funds, questioned the military service, locked the helicopter base in Klagenfurt. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: And the police inspections have all locked us up?- Oh, my God!]] All these things you did until the federal army was no longer operational. I am not even talking about military intervention, but about civil intervention in the case of disasters, which is important for the population. You did all that! Last week I was standing with open eyes and ears at the Angelobung in Greifenburg and the head of state of Carinthia, Mr. Kaiser, announced: We need to promote the federal army, we need to support the federal army. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] Please, Minister Kunasek, give the Federal Government the means it needs! – You want to believe that in Carinthia there are elections next week. So I was really surprised that he, the clap who has clap with him, as Darabos and Klug have run down this federal army, stands there and demands from our minister that he support this federal army. Ladies and gentlemen from the left, the Minister will do so, but not at your call, but because it is necessary and because he is a German armyman and represents the German army. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And what left this left government in Carinthia and Vienna? – 22 closed police services, and today you're posterating in Carinthia: “Carinthia wins!” The Greens write on it: That's what we're gonna do. – That’s true, only you can raise foreigners’ share to 10 percent, we’re in front of Lower Austria – “Bärten Wins!”, we only do –; [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]] [[Call:... an all-party request]] [[Call the FPÖ:Go, go, go!]] Right of entry decided to create asylum quarters in 50 percent of the Carinthian communities – only we can do so, “Bärten wins!” –; seven asylum-large-quarters, most in Austria – that only creates the SPÖ, “Bärten wins!” –; Open housing promotion law for asylum seekers – this only creates the SPÖ in Carinthia. One must honestly say what has been done in recent years, shouts to heaven, and the worst I have not mentioned yet, I could continue this list infinitely. Klagenfurt is now the hub – unfortunately not economically, but in drug abuse. Klagenfurt is the leader in drug use. We have most drug deaths – thank you, gentlemen, only we can do that, “Bärten wins!”. So this has brought left-wing policy to the country of Carinthia. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then I visit the execution centre in Klagenfurt and the staff there tell me: Yes, the drug dealers sit, they are more harmless, they come from the south; over there, these are rather the violent ones who come more from the east, and most of them are old acquaintances. [[Abg. Rossmann: Mr. colleague, will be elected in Carinthia on Sunday?]] I have to tell you that the Minister of Justice is required: They're supposed to get a ticket, but a one-way ticket, and then they're supposed to visit their old acquaintances in their old home and stay there, and not let us feed in our judicial institutions and have a vacation in there, then go out and poison our children. That's where they belong! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A closing point for my friend in Chile: Our Ministers Kickl and Kunasek and this government will ensure that Austria will be as secure as it once was.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6486	Mrs Stephanie Krisper is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6507	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Dear Minister of the Interior! To ensure security is one of the key tasks of the state, especially our police carry out this task gratefully. The figures speak an unmistakable language, as the ladies and gentlemen of the government groups can paint devils on the wall and assure people of what they want, the crime statistics do not impress them, they are consistently positive. The status quo is the one thing to maintain it as efficiently and effectively as possible is the other. Whoever writes about this goal and pursues it on the basis of facts, carefully weighing and with cool head, certainly does not do the right thing, who mixes it with uncertainty, anxiety and half-truths. All the more difficult it will be if the real problems are not in the focus at all, but rather dominating symbol politics and shadow boxes. Your first decisions, Mr. Innenminister, are in favour of you continuing your role as Secretary General of FPÖ. Insecure and fear of being opportunistically on side-by-side sites, whether by the German horse or by the police cavalry [[Abg. Rosary: That was really funny now!]] The symbolism – currently particularly martial and horse-tight – seems to be more important here than the real challenges. [[Abg. Neubauer: They're here?]] - Come on! The current hour is entitled ‘Security offensive’: There we should talk about cybercrime, where there are increases of 30 percent from year to year and a huge number of dark ones. [[Abg. Belakovich: Free speech, not free reading!]] We should talk about the lack of police officers in the cybercrime department of the BKA – and also otherwise – with the result of more than 6.7 million overtime. [[Abg. Belakovich: Don't read it!]] A police officer wrote to me before yesterday: If no people are there, then there is no planquadrate, no train station strips and no school way security, and it is only the most necessary; we can't tear ourselves! What is the solution? Horses? – On this idea I have to ride around a little, this idea really can't be your serious, Mr. Interior Minister. On the other hand, not only are people with a heart for animals and safety experts, even the police union does not want them, and police believe that this is the most useless idea they have ever heard of, they do not bring anything and cost money. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: So that NEOS listen to the union is also mine...!]] Please don't hesitate to ride around the idea, let the pilot project be, even the pilot project costs money. [[Call at the FPÖ: The FSG is against it, oje!]] What is the solution? Prejudicialisation of sexual offences? – You too, Minister of the Interior, like to pick up the horse from the back when it comes to symbol politics. No victim of a sexual offence can do anything if after two years the criminal framework is raised again. That is why everyone is opposed, from the President-in-Office, to experts, to victim protection organisations. Again, the Secretary-General of the FPÖ speaks out of you, he thinks of his own constitutional provision: Austria is a democratic republic. Their right is based on a handful of social media posters. So the statement of your Secretary of State. We need a more stringent, faster admission procedure for executive officials with sensible admission criteria and a occupation of the existing planning posts. We need a debureaucratisation of the daily work of the police and money for the work of sexual pedagogists, pedophile programs and man-advisors. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is not a reading exercise in there!]] But the Minister of the Interior dreams of a world in which police are monitoring us on horses on the street and trojan horses on our computers. Both measures are common that they do not make our lives safer. I therefore renew my request that you, Minister of the Interior, find yourself in your responsibility and let the FPÖ Secretary-General be – for security in our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6640	Mr Peter Kolba is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6719	Mr President. Gentlemen of the Federal Government! The ladies are not here. Ladies and gentlemen! I can also welcome the spectators on the gallery and those who watch us on television. [[Abg. New builder: The mask has fit you very well!]] The title of this current hour is “Safety offensive for Austria!”. We have been discussing security here for some time in a very limited way, namely only security from terrorist attacks or from organised crime, and we are discussing whether what you are presenting here is a security concept or a surveillance law with a general suspicion regarding the entire population. [[Abg. Rosary: That's not it!]] I would like to extend this concept of security clearly. I am the health speaker of our party, and I have talked a lot with people in this country in recent weeks, for example with seniors. For these, security means that after a working life, they have the security to grow old in dignity and in good health. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Rosary: So, Kickl, do something!]] That means for these people, security means much more than your upgrade to the police you're planning. [[Abg. Rosary: But woe, the heartbeats are monitored!]] I have also talked to single-parents who have the uncertainty whether the maintenance contributions that are being made really come and whether the maintenance advances will come accordingly. [[Abg. Schimanek: We're already there!]] – That you say that we are there is good. Before the election, all parties pledged that this would be decided quickly. If you say, “We are already there!” then we will see how fast it is or how long it takes for security to be created. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] I have talked to many sick people who are concerned about whether our health system remains at the good level it now has and that money is not given in there but taken out. [[Abg. Rosary: The Pilz List wants a single minister who does everything!]] I've talked to people who just say: It is clear to every popular student that if you reduce the working hours, you need more doctors. [[Abg. Rosary: You should also talk to people who do not want to trade drugs so that the children stay healthy!]] – For the TV screen viewers: That was Mr. Rosary. He's always yelling at me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] I also spoke to the unemployed in this country, for example, with those who are over 50 years old and have no prospect of finding another job. In this context, you have refused to do so. [[Abg. Rosary: Talk to victims of crime!]] That is, my appeal to the government parties is: Understand security wider, understand security as people in this country need and want security! [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gudenus.]] Test Not only do you equip the police, but you see that you are making a policy in which single teachers, seniors, working people and unemployed people in our society can feel safe as well! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6892	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:23:49]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6913	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7257	I also say that the Second Report of the Incompatibility Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7278	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. [[10:24:58]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7302	Members Dr Rendi-Wagner, ladies and gentlemen, requested urgent consideration of the written question referred to the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection concerning the ban on smoking in gastronomy, which was put into the agenda before the entry into force of the agenda 350/J by Dr Rendi-Wagner. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7332	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure a day block time of 5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times may arise: ÖVP 93, SPÖ and FPÖ each 83 as well as NEOS and list mushroom per 28 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask the ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign on this point. – This is accepted by majority vote. [[10:25:38]] 1. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (10D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the University Law 2002 (20 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment No 29/A by Mr Mag. Andrea Kuntzl, colleagues on a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Organisation of Universities and its Studies (University Law 2002) (21 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7385	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Core. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7412	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the hall and in front of the televisions! Today we are experiencing a plenary session in which the new Federal Government, composed of ÖVP and FPÖ, presented the first legislative proposals with its political groups in Parliament to the House. I think it is worth looking at these laws a little closer, with two points being particularly noteworthy. We will still have a vote today on the abolition of the ban on smoking. All of a sudden, this vote cannot go fast enough: It is tried, contrary to the advice of all experts, against the advice of doctors and against the opinion of the people, to go through the abolition of the ban on smoking on that day. The second remarkable matter we face today is higher education. With regard to higher education, we agree that this is one of the most important social policy issues of our time. Knowledge is the raw material of the future, and I think we all share the assessment that we want our children to be able to study at the best universities, and that in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] We believe that these universities must also be properly and decently financed. That was the reason why, against the will of the ÖVP in the previous legislative period, we carried out a corresponding teaching here in the House. But we also know that we have a reform path in front of us, that it is necessary to work on improving universities. We should address this question from the perspective of the future role of universities. It is about determining what universities actually need to do in the future. It is about determining what a university of the future must actually look like. I am also particularly concerned about the question of how we can make sure that everyone who wants to study and who is also able to do so has the opportunity to study at our universities. [[Abg. Kassinger: Through a differentiated recording process!]] However, what we experience in the request of the Federal Government is that we do not see here a comprehensive reform concept or even a reform debate. Rather, what you are proposing here is, in fact, a limitation of the number of places of study. What we see is that knowledge, a crucial factor of the future, is limited in access, namely by ensuring that one fifth of the study places are simply deleted for beginners. But not only that: We have also submitted a request to the committee responsible to ensure that students who are active do not pay any tuition fees. This is an issue that we have unfortunately remained in the minority, because it seems that this is not so important for the ÖVP and the FPÖ and because we have decided to reintroduce tuition fees. The exciting point is: In this context, the first step is to start with the professionals. So we're talking about students who need to finance their studies through employment. These are the first ones to get along with the tuition fees. I therefore find this interesting because you have always promised that you do not want new taxes. However, the first decision you will take in this House is, in fact, taxes for students working in the workplace. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Whatever you have to stress – and I believe that this is not a coincidence, but that it is a model –: We have heard over and over the last few weeks and months that it is about saving in the system. I consider this to be the greatest error of the Austrian population! That's really Orwell's new speech. This is a reinterpretation of reality. What happened yesterday? – When labour market policy and the means of allowing workers to re-enter their profession were included in the AMS' bodies, the next cuts came! Not that we misunderstand: I believe that a reform process is necessary here, just as at the universities. I believe that it is necessary to think about efficiency and to consider carefully whether the tax money is handled with care. But what was proposed yesterday is a massive blow in active labour market policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] That's something that doesn't have any effect. Just as your policy ends on the back of the students, in this case it will end on the back of the older unemployed. The Minister for Social Affairs has been sitting here and has explained to us that action 20 000 has not been stopped at all, that it will still be evaluated. Yesterday, however, you have cut back the funds for this, and the consequence is that people who are over 50 and fly out of the labour market no longer get a job perspective. And not just that: This does not only end with the older unemployed, but now the apprentices are also affected by the fact that the over-company apprenticeships are paid out from these funds, and this means in the clear text that apprentices who do not have the opportunity to get training in companies and who have so far had the opportunity to go to an over-company workshop will be removed from this possibility. They pursue a policy that is at the expense of the students and the professionals, a policy that is at the expense of the older unemployed and the apprentices. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: What are you talking about?]] All of this can be done, but then please don't tell us the lavender of saving in the system, because you're cutting right with people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7494	Mr Rudolf Taschner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7515	Mr President. High house! Dear Dr. Kern! [[Abg. Deimek: He's a magister and not a doctor!]] They will forgive me: I will focus on the draft law on universities according to the agenda, in which tuition fees are not even mentioned. Because you asked what the universities should do in the future: Once, when the famous mathematician Harold Davenport was asked for a congress, what he thought of the Congress, he replied: Well, they did what could be done. – In German: Special things have not come out. That's exactly the point in science: Science is that in it the unexpected, the special, the extraordinary, comes out, and universities are the place where this special and extraordinary is to happen. This is the essence of universities, and it is in fact the task of politics to ensure that this essential is made possible at universities and that the foundation is created for it. That's what this law stands for. There are probably examples in history that have succeeded. You will remember: When small universities were founded in German countries, for example in Erfurt, in Tübingen, in Göttingen, in Mannheim, in Mannheim, it was so skillful that suddenly, as with a miracle, poets such as Hölderlin and Schiller, thinkers such as Fichte and Hegel came out, that mathematicians like Gauß and Dirichlet came out, who still have something to say to us today. And this has also happened in this country: ==References== In the 19th century, the liberal ideas of Thun-Hohenstein made it possible to make the university free for the extraordinary. There has suddenly been a school of national economics created by Menger and Böhm-Bawerk, a medical school by Rokitansky and Billroth and a school of new physics by Mach and Boltzmann. From this the Wiener Kreis developed, resulting in the great philosophical ideas of Wittgenstein, from Gödel to Lise Meitner, and all of this has been achieved due to a wise political university law. [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Just today, we are now finding a university law that will create such spaces. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] How do you manage to create such spaces? – I want to highlight two points: First of all, we are no longer counting how many enrollees we have, but it is important that we really demand and promote the people who are suitable for study and tend to study a subject. The very possibility that one can carry out research-led teaching is given in this law by the basic lecture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] You must bear in mind, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: The important physicist, Seilinger, who really has world language, is not too bad to hold a basic lecture in physics, and he, when this law comes through, has students before himself, of whom we know that they are suitable and inclined to complete a corresponding study; and these are those of which you say that they do not come to the universities anymore, that they have only sporadically and seminar halls never seen. A second point is: This law creates the possibility of opportunity Hiring, the possibility that you can bring top forces here to Austria in recent ways. These are actually interested in coming to Austria because we have a good university landscape, and getting these top forces to us quickly, which is a really particularly impressive measure that can be put in place. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Dr. Noll! You'll say that this is a risk. – Yes, it is a risk, but the risk is that the universities will have the opportunity to do the extraordinary thing that matters and not just do what could be done. But in politics it is a praise when you say: You did what could be done. You really did what you could do: The framework has been created. The framework has been created to ensure that universities here in Austria do extraordinary things that they can be excellent. The framework has been created by this bill, and we hope that this law is a building block to continue to make universities better and more attractive for the benefit of our country. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7577	Mrs Stephanie Cox is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7600	High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! I still remember exactly a Facebook discussion and a thread in which it was about me and in which someone said that if I was really good, I would have migrated to Germany, to the USA or to China for a long time. – Many researchers are doing the same, and I had to smile, because when that happened, I was actually on the jump to Berlin, but then I decided to do so because I wanted to go into this house. But what has made me think much more, is the question: Why is there this creed? Why do talented researchers have to move abroad to succeed? – I think the answer to the question becomes clear when we consider what role Austria plays when it comes to the great innovations and trends that change the world and are usually born at universities, such as Artificial Intelligence, Autonomous Vehicles, 4D Printing and much more. The answer to the question of Austria's role is simple, but sad: We don't play a big role! What incentives should the smartest minds have to stay here or come to us? – The best example of this is Josef Penninger, a world leader in biomedicine, who we have recently lost to Canada. Mr Penninger may be an extraordinary example, but the fact is: He's not the only one. Braindrain, i.e. the departure of knowledge and talent, belongs to Austria like the grand waiter or the great waitress into the Vienna coffee house. On the other hand, we are unable to bring enough foreign top researchers to Austria to compensate for this brain drain. But what is that about? – Austria does not offer top researchers the right environment in which something goes further. The conditions for top researchers in this country are simply not attractive enough – not yet attractive enough – and the reason for this is chronic subfinancing and overregulation. I would like us to go there; I still lack a little. We need an increase in higher education expenditure from 1.5 to 2 percent of GDP at the moment. Establishment of Excellence Initiatives: Germany is much further away, we can look a little away. It is also necessary to provide incentives to retain talents, of course, but also to bring them to Austria. The promotion of female students in technical disciplines is just an example that needs to be addressed already and not only in the coming decades. All of these are political tasks, ladies and gentlemen – tasks of politics! – that means we have to deal with this. The fact that it is possible shows an example from the recent past. With his Institute of Molecular Biotechnology as well as Thomas Henzinger and the Institute of Science and Technology Austria, Josef Penninger has shown that we can get great researchers from elites such as MIT, Stanford and ETH Zurich. We also know that we are well on the road in the fields of computer science, bioscience, quantum physics and mathematics. So that means there are opportunities. However, it takes even more action than words, more determination and less self - renunciation. No matter how to turn it and turn it around, if this government takes its self-esteemed goals seriously, it will have to invest more in research and a better – also political! – the environment for researchers must be created. Unfortunately, if this does not pass, the innovation leadership remains still a long way away.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7659	Mr Kassager has been mentioned on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7680	Mr President. High house! We have the law on university funding today thank God in a very prominent place, at good time on the agenda. This gives me the opportunity to deal with the matter from the other side, namely the questions that the new Federal Government is dealing with intensively. The answers to these questions are also recognizable in the section of the government programme concerning science and also in this law. What are the important questions that should be asked as a government in this regard? – Question one: What do the students want? – Students want good teachers; students want teachers, professors who have sufficient time to deal with the students. [[Abg. Krainer: You want to study!]] Students want a good infrastructure, they don't want to sit on the stairs or somewhere in the Juchhe. Students want good care; students want the studies to be studyable, i.e. they are also able, for example, to study in a minimum period, and the framework conditions are such. None of this is currently available at the universities, nothing of these points is available! This is, of course, also the SPÖ's responsibility, which education and higher education policy has had to play a significant role in recent years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second important question we ask ourselves: What do the universities want? – The universities, the executives in the universities want planning, reliability. Of course, universities want sufficient resources; universities want enough capacity, good capacities, laboratory sites, hearing halls et cetera. Of course, they want – and rightly so – more staff to ensure better care conditions, and – this is the result of many conversations I have with professors and rectors – they want less administration. The administration almost kills the universities. So there is also a considerable need to catch up – a condition that SPÖ has to share. And I am absolutely right, Mr Kern, it is necessary to improve a lot, and we are now starting by introducing this paradigm change. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These times are over, new times are coming! We have in the focus of our university policy things like quality, performance, effective and efficient handling of resources, output orientation – we should also ask ourselves the question of what should come out at the end, and not always the question of how much money we put in at the beginning! ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This law is a first step, a right step, an important step in this direction. The Federal Government, by means of this law, ensures the following objectives: The Federal Government ensures that, of course, these measures improve the quality of teaching, a massive improvement in care conditions and thus improve quality. With this new financing model, the Federal Government of course ensures that planning from the university's point of view will be significantly improved. The Federal Government, of course, also ensures that transparency and target security of financing are significantly increased by this law. We have a new model, not a foundry model, but a three-column model, which clearly distinguishes between resources for teaching, resources for research and resources for infrastructure – that is a clear improvement. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Let me say two or three sentences on a permanent theme. On the part of the SPÖ, we are always accused that the FPÖ had fallen by the restrictions on access. I have two points to make. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] First point: The situation has changed dramatically in the last 20 years at universities. Now you can go into it in two ways: The one way is to continue our own policy, so to speak, to insist on ideology-driven, dog-powered, to collide and to continue staring. That would be one way, it's not so sympathetic to us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] We know this more about the SPÖ that it is continuing with its policy without responding without responding to changed circumstances, knowing that politics is in fact wrong, because one already realizes that one thing or another does not work the way one has imagined it. In this case, one insists on its position regarding access restrictions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] By the way: Where was the SPÖ in the access restrictions? – The last governments have already introduced the most massive restrictions on access. Didn't the SPÖ fall by? Where were you at that time?, I ask you if you'll blame us now. What we have now done is to improve, make it fairer and more transparent, based on the state of the art, namely, existing restrictions on access, to make it more transparent and target-oriented. I might want to explain the ETH-Zurich model in two, three sentences. What is it about? – It is about giving students sufficient time to find out if they are fit for a university, and that the university has to be given time to find out if this student or these students fit into the university. We are completely in agreement, Mr Kern, if you say – and I have written it down exactly – that “all those who want to study and are also qualified to do so” should also be allowed to study. – This model ensures exactly that. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A brief sentence on the second subject, which you are constantly accusing us of, is that of tuition fees. They say that we are now picking up the working students by reintroducing these tuition fees again. To correct matters: First of all, this is about – you know – the fact that in this case study fees only apply when the minimum duration of studies plus additional tolerability semesters are exceeded. They always represent this as if the students were immediately suspended with a tax from the beginning. By the way, this is not a tax, but there is a return, so it cannot be a tax. Fee and counterperformance are exactly the right expressions in this context. Of course, we also demand the universities to pay the relevant fees, but we also give the universities freedom and opportunities to develop themselves as far as their own achievements are concerned, in the context of their university autonomy, on the basis of the 2002 UG, which was also decided by a black and blue government and which is still a modern milestone in the university legislation. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'll get you together. Of course, a paradigm change is taking place here – which the SPÖ does not like now – a paradigm change towards quality, towards performance, towards responsible handling of resources, towards planning and transparency. We do not, of course, forget the social component, but it will always be put under the table. We continue to grant 220 million euros to social grants. So do. It is not as if we are not taking sufficient precautions in the social field too! [[Abg. Rosary: Exactly!]] We have already addressed – you mentioned the decision taken before the summer break by SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens, as the Freedom Party has also played a significant role – to make a significant increase in resources available to universities, namely EUR 1.35 billion. So there's more money. No one university gets less money, but everyone gets an increase in the range from 7 percent to 15 percent in the next performance period 2019 to 2021. We ensure transparent funding; we create more IT places with this law, and we create a fair reception process. It is also new that unauthorised students have the opportunity to request a decision under this admission procedure and can therefore also take legal action. Further steps will follow. As in many other areas, our goal is to bring Austria back to the finish line in the higher education field.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7781	Mrs Andrea Kuntzl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7802	Ladies and gentlemen! I can't avoid saying something about the opinion of the Freedom Party at the beginning of the day. It is already adventurous, what form of, say, suppleness you have developed in recent weeks and have shown. [[Abg. Little: The SPÖ zigzag course!]] You really wonder what's still going on from what you claimed to be so important before – from the places of study to direct democracy. [[Abg. Stefan: That was quite clear!]] It seems that the only thing that matters to you in this republic is that you are in the government, that you are allowed to continue smoking – otherwise nothing is more important to you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[A major contradiction with the FPÖ.]] Let's see, since this was a bit fogged by the government parties, which fits smoking, which this law really brings with it, Mr. Klubobmann, what this means for young people's chances of living in this country. [[Abg. Rosary: I never took part in an election campaign...! That's what we're really looking at!]] This is the important thing, which should be particularly important to us here when we talk about places of study. With the draft law that you present here today, you take a big deal at the beginners' places, when you access the universities, and that is especially amazing, without a spark to think about it: [[Abg. Stefan: How?]] What can we offer to young people who can't do this training now because you close, replace, offer alternatives, where are they supposed to go now, what are they supposed to do? – No answer; that is no problem at all for you – no question! [[Abg. Stefan: How was it used to be with medicine?]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stefan.]] This stroke of study places at the universities connects you with admission procedures and is starting with how we have had to observe in the last few years in medicine that a market of expensive course systems is developing, which young people need to complete, so that they have a chance at all to stand in these admission procedures. [[Abg. Rosary: Have you observed this or designed it?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] [[Abg. Rosary: Have you ruled or just watched over the last ten years?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] And if you do not agree with our application for tuition fees today, then take the step that will take from the autumn semester 30 000 to 30 000! – Young people who work in addition to their studies to be able to finance their studies are now still burdened by tuition fees. [[Abg. Schimanek: Situation selastic!]] So in total, this is a package with which you make the start conditions of your life harder for young people in this country and do not support them. That is embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They delete a fifth of the beginners’ places, which are about 20,000 beginners’ places in the next three years less. [[Abg. Kassinger: This does not even correspond to half of the...!]] And that's just the entry into this new system, that's just the beginning, because you've also installed mechanisms that will trigger a domino effect. From today's point of view, we cannot even estimate the dynamics that this will develop. We know that there will be at least 20 000 places in the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen, the amazing thing about this debate is, in my view, that the impression is that it is necessary to build up obstacles because Austria is a special case, everyone can go to the university and because it is too many. The opposite is the case, ladies and gentlemen. If you look at OECD statistics, you can see that it is not the case that Austria is in the lead field – quite the contrary, we are imitators! [[Abg. Kassinger: So it has been in the last 15 years...!]] We are imitators in international comparison, yes, and not just in terms of academics. [[Abg. Rosary: This is now being changed!]] [[further calls and cheerfulness at the FPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8012	The honourable Member is on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8027	Calm down, gentlemen of the Freedom Party! [[Abg. Rosary: We must change the failure of the red government!]] [[Abg. Jarolim: This is a witness of poverty!]] We are therefore not only imitators as regards the academic rate, but also as regards the beginners. As far as the OECD is concerned, we are on 27. Put it, so far back. [[Abg. Rosary: And that since January 2018?]] Now it can be said that in recent years the social mix in access to universities has progressed too slowly. [[Abg. Rosary: Ten years!]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] We have been very concerned about it – we were not alone in the government – but it has not been improved to the extent that we have imagined it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] [[Call the FPÖ:For ten years! Ten years!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, with the package you have to present today – less places to study, more tuition fees, more expensive courses – you have a package that will now lead the way to the opposite direction. [[Abg. Rosary:... you also said! Observer status in the government!]] It will be much harder for young people who come from a parent house where parents do not have the opportunity to help and support to the extent they have, whether financially or through the knowledge they have. [[Abg. Schimanek: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: That's a hypothesis!]] For these young people with thin wallets, access to good training will become more difficult. [[Abg. Rosary: It's just class struggle out of the belly! That's not proven!]] You do not only do this in higher education, but you also delete the places at the non-commercial teaching workshops that would be so important. You cannot agree on a certain consequence in the cultivation of opportunities for young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You're talking about milestones you're presenting here. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, with these stones you build the future of many young people. It's embarrassing!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8201	Mrs Claudia Gamon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8223	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Science! First of all, I would like to say that I see this novel for an incredibly important first step towards a serious study place funding. This is also the reason why NEOS will agree with this important reform project. It has often been said in the Committee that it is a paradigm change and that a lot will change. I think it's at least a little hopeful on the way to a paradigm change, as we see in higher education policy. Yes, the funding reform, the new type of budgeting at universities is extremely important. The opportunity Hiring gives universities more flexibility to hire even top researchers from all over the world. Paradigm change in science policy, however, in research policy must happen in the head – and we have not yet arrived. It is a matter of setting political priorities because we know that much more funding is needed for serious funding than for those we are now making available. We also know that it is a matter of raising awareness, it needs a future, a technology optimism; it must always be explained to the whole population, what we all have in common from research, what we all have together from our universities, which contributes to the development of our society. This is a political priority, not necessarily Austria first, but future first. The future is not waiting for the government to think it is politically opportune to invest in any area. The higher education sector, the research sector, has actually had to fight in Austria for years with lack of administration. This was no longer a question of where we can focus where we can invest, it was a lack of administration – even in basic research, which is recognized by looking at the funding of the FWF. There was sub-financing at the universities, which led to bad studies. the conditions, which in turn makes it all the more difficult for students with a worse social background, with poorer social security, to make progress in their studies. These are also the consequences of poor study conditions. There is no promotion of excellence, there is the average cementation. As we know, we are a small country, yet we have wise minds, good young researchers, who, despite the adverse conditions, deliver enormous successes for our country, for our research location. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] What's good? – The design of funding, including the fact that the funds are now being redistributed, how budgeting looks, and also the additional opportunities created in the so-called access management for universities. The Uniko is also largely satisfied with this reform project, which is in itself a good sign. What's missing? – For real student funding, as has already been said, there is no real capacity orientation, which would also enable universities to decide for themselves whether they will achieve the objectives at all and about the money that is necessary for this. This step we are now taking, namely to change budgeting, to introduce to universities some indicators – which I consider to be extremely important – but on the other hand, not to give them all the opportunity to achieve these objectives, is a very interesting conflict. Due to the fact that access management cannot be made autonomously by any university itself, we actually take them a little away from the Uniautonomy again. They do not have all the means to achieve the budget targets, because they cannot decide for themselves what it is like to see what kind of access they want. Finally, I would like to address a subject which is not mentioned, but which is very, very urgent, and that is the subject of basic research, which is the subject of funding of the FWF. We all know – and this is what we have mentioned in the Scientific Committee – that the funding of the FWF and the increase of the funds promised last year are not guaranteed. I do not want to speak to my fellow Members, but to all stakeholders in the field of science, including all of them, in the chairmen and professors, and to tell them that I expect all of them to be in solidarity with the FWF. That's all about everyone. If the funding and increase of the budget for the FWF are not secured, this is a bad sign of setting priorities in the science sector in general. The principle must therefore apply to all those active in this field: One for all, all for one! In the next few days and weeks, all the votes for the increase in the budget for the FWF should be very loud. That's what I'm expecting, and I hope that's what I hope of everyone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8277	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Heinz Faßmann spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8301	Madam President. High house! I avoid being redundant and will not repeat what has already been repeated in relation to the positive aspects of this law. I would just like to comment on some of the comments that I do not think I can leave. Mr Klubobmann Kern! What do universities have to do? Where should they develop? How are they to be financed? – These are undoubtedly extremely important questions, but believe me and believe They also ask universities, these questions they constantly ask and they reflect on them. This law is also not an outflow, if you like, of a two-month ministry on my part, but the final outcome of a ten-year discussion process on it. This ten-year discussion process has actually brought about this change: Universities are to be financed according to performance. I have experienced many performance agreements with the Ministries. There, budgets were awarded according to historical distribution patterns. Everything else would have been very difficult, but probably very controversial, and that is why this type of discussion has been avoided. Now there will be another component, namely: In fact, funding according to performance, and training is undoubtedly an educational achievement. How many students can be trained at a university is important. Paradigm change – and it is really a paradigm change – in the direction of study place-oriented funding is essential, but for this to be defined, study places need to be created and built. And believe me, Mr Klubobmann Kern, a place of study in chemistry, for example, is not built from today on tomorrow! Laboratories need to be created, qualified professors need to be appointed. However, the profession of professors does not go from today to tomorrow, but it takes a year, two years and sometimes five years. Because of the fact that the places of study are stable, it is clear that you also need to clarify the question of what happens if there are more people interested in these courses. Mr Klubobmann Kern, I also mentioned the sentence: One must then certainly decide that everyone who wants to study should be able to do so, but also able to do so. – This form of a certain skill – who actually has the stuff to study chemistry? to stay with my example, with my image – corresponds to the form of access management according to principles, according to fair, non-discriminatory principles. All of this should be guaranteed, and that will certainly be observed from my side. So there's more money in the system. For this happy addition in early summer 2017, I am also grateful, not at all, but we now have to try to distribute the money in such a way that it does not collapse somewhere in the system, but that it will achieve what needs to be achieved. To this end, I should like to say very clearly: We do not want fewer places to study, we do not want to make fewer students successful, but, Mrs Kuntzl, we want to have active students, and the active students should also have a chance to be active. For this to happen, we need cohesion between the resources that we have on the one hand, the capacities we have on the one hand, and those that can take advantage of these resources and capacities. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mrs Kuntzl, one thing I can also reject – but I know that is, of course, a political discourse and a political Jargon, which also has a different kind of precision than a scientific discourse: If you say that we and indirectly I, too, without a spark of thinking about it, are behind this law, then I tell you, that is not at all true! Of course, I think about it, we think about it, the universities think about how they deal with the opportunities of young people fairly. Ms. Kuntzl, this is the Raison d’être of the University, that she creates opportunities for young people. Now to accuse the universities that they don't even think about it, I think it's a real political discourse. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mrs Kuntzl, I told you on Monday at our constructive committee meeting, which I really enjoyed because she was smart and structured, also that there are uncounted courses for which we would very much like to have more students. We have a concentration on a few courses and we have a lot of resources in other courses. So there are opportunities there, and these opportunities can also be used. I would like to point out to you that there is already a part of the tertiary system, where we have access management, where we have study fees and where we reach a high level of social integration, and that is the high school sector. So a little bit of a thing the universities could learn from this high school sector without further ado. [[Abg. Kuntzl: expansion!]] – Do you mean that few students are reached? [[Abg. Kuntzl: No! They're not expanding there!]] – Expansion, yes, I’ll call myself that. [[Abg. Too little!]] We currently have 52 000 students in high school, we have 180 000 students who are active in the university field. You see, there is already a very reasonable relationship, and that this area is to be expanded, in which I agree. This is also the case in the Government Convention, and it will be done. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: Stand in there!]] Madam President, I do not know how long I can speak, but I would like to mention one thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8390	Mr. Federal Minister, you decide how long you want to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8405	Thank you for this freedom, but I will still not overclaim your patience. I would just like to take up Mrs Cox's speech and Mrs Gamon's speech. Both have pointed out the importance of research, particularly basic research, and I can clearly only underline and support what they have said. In Austria, I think, we must think a lot more about how we will shape the future, and we must also look to the future through basic research, which will then become an innovative research and, if we want to, our economy, the industry, the service sector with innovative ideas. We are a small country, a high-paid region, and this is a good thing that we are a high-paid region, but we will only be able to stand in international competition if we can still put a little emphasis on innovation capacity. That's what the two ladies really did. We are really world leaders in some areas, and one must also address this, although this is most likely to be discussed here in the House. In the field of quantum physics we are really good, in the field of biosciences we are really good, in the field of pharmacy we are excellent. I have to watch out now because television is live, because the colleagues I don't call now, but they're all good, aren't insulting me. We are really very good in many areas! We must maintain and develop these areas, and we will also do something in the field of basic research in the field of the FWF. I can promise. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8443	The next item is the speech by Mr Alfred Noll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8465	Madam President. High house! Dear Seers! I am against this reform of the university law, which is not a secret. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I think there are some reasons to be against it, however – let me speak out, maybe you will get happier then! – I think the direction of the law as a whole is a right and good one. I think the additional money is necessary for the universities. – It’s too little new money, it should be more. I consider the three-pillar financing solution overall to be a suitable solution to which one should continue, however, I have a problem with the precise allocation of the budgetary resources, because it is according to § 12 para. 7 shall be done by the way of the law; there shall I be a child burned in the law of the constitution. I consider the wording in the law itself to be too low a legal determination to determine these regulations in terms of content. This can – it doesn't have to, but it can – result in universities coming under the curate of a budgetary emergency, which ultimately lowers the autonomy of universities rather than strengthening them. Mr Taschner has done a bit of scientific history in a very friendly and friendly way. – It was not that way that the heroines of science history would have grown from the universities. Very often they had to claim against the universities. In this context, not only does it have to be called Freud in this country, but one can also call Leibniz or Alexander von Humboldt, who worked far away from the universities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tashner.]] – “In German countries” you said when you started your science history poem. I would go to Friedrich II. and Naples, because there are much better reasons for the university and also for the support of the students. [[Abg. Jarolim: Thanks for the Enlightenment!]] One last point to this opportunity Hiring: The opportunity Hiring does not just mean that, it also offers an intrusion for opportunity. If the rector can order professors without a tender, without a qualification examination, but at the same time the rector remains dependent on the well-being of the university councils, we cannot rule out the fact that the rectors are exposed to the influence of some university councils, as we have learned in recent weeks. This is not a good basis for the appointment of new professors, especially since these new professors bring a very gross imbalance into the university itself. They are privileged there, among others, with a rat tail in the middle of the building, which we cannot estimate before and which can serve as a liquefaction. I am against this opportunity Hiring, but I am not against the fact that at the Austrian universities better working conditions are created for the teachers and researchers there. To this end, this law is a possibility, but one should continue to work with greater determination. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8517	Next item is the report by Mr Manfred Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8539	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kuntzl, I would like to replicate you very briefly, because it is already interesting that now that you have had a lot of responsibility for it in the past decades, everything should be bad in the university area at once. [[Abg. Kuntzl: Who was the Minister of Science?! Were we in a single government?- Oh, my God!]] We really don't see that! There are, of course, some possibilities for improvement, and of course we see that as well. ‘The press’ in 2016: “Not another Austrian university under Top-100”, and we can of course also think that it has not become better, unfortunately. Also 2018 seems in the Times Unfortunately, no Austrian university among the best 100 on high education world reputation rankings. In 2011, the University of Vienna was among the best 100. This is also the reason why we need to offer our universities new opportunities and framework conditions in order not to go further in this ranking. I believe that with this new law on university funding, we will create a quality improvement offensive, so that in the future there will be fewer dropouts and also better and more audit-active students. This is also something that has already been said in Mr Kern's plan A, but it is strangely negative today. The Bachelor's degree takes on average about eight semesters, the Master's degree five semesters. We still have air up there. It is therefore all the more important that we achieve precisely these financial increases of 1.34 billion in order to be able to appoint more professors for the students. This, of course, improves the quality of training and the intensity of care, which, of course, results in the studies being less long and students then quickly entering the labour market. With the new three-pillar model for research, teaching and infrastructure, we bring more transparency into budgeting. As the Minister has already said, There will be more transparency through budgets assigned to performance catalogues and requirement profiles. With the new access schemes, we are implementing a call for the University Conference, which will meet the current needs of universities. We need to introduce these capacity-oriented and efficient access schemes, because it is of course important in mass studies to maintain the quality of teaching and research as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to congratulate the Federal Minister on this ambitious programme for the further development of our universities. It is, I believe, also an important building block to come forward in the international rankings. However, I would like to make a brief comment to the technical colleges: Personally, I am a very large supporter of the technical colleges, because they are very strong in the regions, offer very high quality of training and, above all, train skilled workers for our economy, which improve competitiveness. I am glad that our government, according to its government programme, wants to force exactly these; I am in favour of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8581	Next item is the report by Mr Philip Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8606	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fässmann, if you have just listened to Mr Hofinger's speech, you can do something about it, since the hacks fly deeply afterwards. In retrospect, it has been so that apparently all ÖVP science ministers have produced a mere disaster in Austria. The reluctance you have as Minister for Education of the ÖVP from your own ranks is not the very best. I hope that will change in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At least I did not know where Mr Hofinger's great support was when, together with Minister of Science Mitterlehner, we fought for it – often against the ÖVP Finance Minister – that there is an increase in scholarships, that there is an expansion of the high school courses, that there is at last more budget at the universities. These were all things we had to struggle laboriously. After Mr Taschner has already tried to explain the great philosophical superstructure today, I would like to come to the concrete effects of this law quite Profan. What we are discussing here today is a concrete impact on life, on the opportunities, hopes and dreams of young people, young people who are sitting in schools today, at this time, preparing themselves for schoolwork, perhaps already in breaks to discuss with each other what they want to study what hopes and dreams they have, what life course they want to take. These young people are said today: One, mane, muh, and you're out! Every fifth of you won't get a place at the university! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Panikmacher!]] The worst thing is that it is especially true to those people who may have talents that are good at it, but whose parents simply don't have the money to afford these preparation courses by hundreds of euros, in the medical field, for over 1,000 euros. They're saying: You may be well aware that you could contribute a lot for Austria, for the future, but unfortunately it won't go out! [[Abg. Kassinger: They're doing all of this!]] You just forget about these people. That is really tragic and sad. In the election campaign, two points were very often addressed which I would like to address; the one concerns the fairness of performance where the ÖVP always claims in Sunday's speeches, it is the party of performance providers, and the FPÖ is always talking about fairness, and I ask you: Is it fair that young people who have to work in order to be able to afford their studies that work throughout the study period – and this is the majority, the student social survey shows that too – who are not from a parent house from which they have to get money, but who have to work to punish these young people in the future? Is that performance-oriented? Is it fair that 30 000 young people who have to work in addition to their studies will now receive tuition fees, each time work takes a longer period of time? – That’s not intelligent, that’s unfair, and it’s especially anti-performance. [[Abg. Kassinger: When do they pay tuition fees?]] It's not socially fair. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Cashier: When do you pay the tuition fees? You're pretending to have to pay right away, that's wrong!]] Is it fair to punish people who have to work in different areas in the morning, at night? These are individual fates of young people. That is, the one whose parents may not have the money, you say specifically: You can still be so good at it, you don't even come to college!, and the other people who already have to work today have to work more because they pay tuition fees. This is, in fact, a last-class, backward policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8701	The next item is Mrs Dr.in Brigitte Povysil. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8723	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Science! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Ladies and gentlemen in the media! I would now like to answer my colleague's slightly picturesque vocals and children's rhyme in concrete terms by saying: What does our law, this law, which we have now set in motion? – We want a very clear and for the first time implemented real study place funding. We want an overview, an overview of university development, an entire Austrian university development plan. And we want clear access arrangements for everyone who starts to study. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is a first major step towards future-oriented university development. What are the goals we have in mind? – The aim is on the one hand fair access for all levels of society. The aim is to enable young people to live up to their career dreams. And the goal is to make the universities fit for the requirements of the future. There is, of course, much to do, that is also conscious of us. Let's take my course of study: It is now starting at all universities and faculties in Austria 1 476 medical students – these are the last numbers from the ministry – and of course you already have to realize that eight medical students are currently riding around a study site. That's what we're aware of! We also know Austria needs doctors. We need them because of the rapid medical progress, we need them because of our population structure – we all have the happiness to live longer, start earlier, stop later – and we all know that there is a wave of retirement among doctors. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Except smoking!]] That is, we already have too few doctors for teaching and research, for the old-age homes, for the hospitals. We have too few doctors in the country. We will use a variety of measures, we have a variety of ideas to realize that we will have enough doctors in our country. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this was also known to the last government, it has already bought the ministry places, namely at the Salzburg Paracelsus Privatuniversität. We are for a variety of quality-secured university training opportunities, but it is also a great concern for us and we will also be careful that, as medical care is a public service task, enough public places will also be available in medical studies. [[Abg. Kuntzl: Why do you do that?]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is already at the universities, actively the students for research, to inspire teaching. It is at the universities to actively enable a university career to motivate it to be hit. It is at the universities to clarify and motivate the importance of a general medical, for Austria, for the country so important care in the curriculum so that it is accepted by the students. I think we have taken a big step, but I'm sure we'll join a sprint, a sprint in the medical-university field, in order to make the medical care, the teaching, the research in our country really future fit and keep it.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8792	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr.in Sonja Hammerschmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8814	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear spectators in front of the TV screens! I now have so many balls in the air that I could catch, so much that would be important to clarify; on the one hand, that medical courses have nothing to do with medical care and the bottleneck of general physicians – a look at the numbers worth a look and you can see immediately what things are – but I don't want to focus on that at all. [[Abg. Povysil: Wrong!]] I would also like to make it clear that the SPÖ greatly appreciates the Austrian universities and that the SPÖ is well aware of what universities are doing today – we see this very clearly – and we have already done it despite the framework conditions. Many have made it to the top of the world in individual subjects. This is to be recognized, as we have conditions and conditions that are suboptimal in international comparison. I have been able to accompany this law, which is under discussion today, in many functions – I was a university councillor, a long rector, president of the University Conference, a mirror minister and now I am a Member of the House. As a rector, I welcome this bill after ten years of discussion, because the financing logic for Austrian universities depends on the university's capacity. It's a law that's supposed to make care conditions better at the universities. It is very clearly about the quality of our young people's education and training. It is about employability, it is about employability, and it can only be ensured with sufficient quality. It is a law that should also ensure that research is refocused, because it is about research-led teaching that we offer at universities. We are very different from the colleges and other university types that we can offer our students research-led teaching. It is a law that should bring more transparency, because it is based on indicators and because it depends on three pillars, which are clearly separated. However, the fact is that we already have a bill that does not sufficiently guarantee this transparency. As a Member of Parliament, I would like to see more transparency in the event of such a paradigm change, and this is to be agreed. We need to be able to see better how it is distributed, because the three pillars, the weighting of which, the distribution of the budgets - outsourced into a regulation; the classification of the groups of subjects, the weighting factors, how they come into existence - are out of place in a regulation; the indicators how they are defined - outsourced into a regulation; the conditions of care, how they are improved, are probably not regulated in the regulation, but in the performance agreements with the universities, but there is not even an objective in the law that is specifically formulated; the social dimension – instigated as a goal, but very vague. I am missing concrete measures that should already be taken in the law so that I can take seriously that this social dimension is really a concern for you. The reduction of the places of study at the Austrian universities involved: Yes, there's a plan we need to deal with, because it's about our young people, about talented young people with a lot of potential, which may not then be able to find a place. It takes alternatives to these young people, because Austria cannot afford to abandon the potential and talents of our young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] Mr Federal Minister, please take the social question really seriously! Look You're right, that's why I'm really asking you! I also ask you: They are the first to be able to make an entire development plan, an entire strategy for the tertiary area. All university types are in your department, the educational universities as well as the universities, the colleges, the private universities. You are now able to develop and control a comprehensivetertiary strategy plan and a package of measures, also with the courses, because if you reduce them at the universities, you have to screw them up at the colleges. You have already said that you will, but one is a confession, the other is a strategic work cast in numbers, which I would like you to do as well. Mr Federal Minister, please act!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8859	Mrs Dr.in Maria Theresia Niss is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8881	Madam President. Federal Minister! Values Advisors on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Anyone who knows me knows that I am a supporter of terms such as efficiency, excellence and transparency, that I am a supporter of terms such as responsibility, competition and innovation. It is precisely these terms that shape the novelle to the university law, and that is why it is a very good one for me. Now it could be thought that the universities in Austria are not really so bad, not in top rankings, but after all, the unemployment rate of university graduates at 3.6 percent is relatively far below the general unemployment rate of 7.6 percent. But we must ask ourselves what times we are in. We are in times when, while we want to invest in the future, we also have a responsibility towards the next generations. We need to save and cut off the debt backpack. In this context, we must ask ourselves whether the funds have been used effectively in the university field so far. And I honestly dare to doubt that. I wonder – that has already been mentioned today –: What is actually the task of universities? – We have already heard this today, many of them are of the same opinion here: This is, on the one hand, basic research, research, which seeks and hopefully finds answers to social problems, and a research that produces innovations that can lead to market maturity, because there are future jobs there. I am therefore pleased that the additional funds provided to universities will, of course, significantly strengthen the additional 500 professorships, including research. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] However, through the division into the three pillars of teaching, research and infrastructure and the transparency created with it, we also need to ensure that the money actually arrives in research, because I think we have improvement potential. The second task of the universities is to teach. We already lack 10,000 workers in areas such as computer science, which means that the jobs are there, but we need qualified workers to do so. The aim is precisely this: more audit-active students, who study more quickly, and above all more graduates. Mrs Kuntzl, you have spoken about a "cash". We have also discussed in the Committee about the reduction of 20 000 places of study. In my opinion, it is not about how many people are enrolled, how many people are studying, because the universities are not a pastime, but about how many students are successfully studying. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The drop-out quota in Jus: 70 percent; in foreign languages: 68 percent. [[Abg. Arbitrators: And now no one can start!]] I myself studied Jus, the audiences were dumb, two hours before you had to be there to get a seat. [[Abg. Arbitrator: You don't need to come now because you don't get a place, bravo!]] – May I speak up, please? [[Abg. Arbitrators: You can pronounce anyway!]] We didn't know the professors in part, although I studied two decades ago, but as I hear it, it's not really better in the first section of the law these days. – Quality study I call something different. The universities have a responsibility, we must also give them the opportunity to perceive them. On the one hand, the rules of access allow for better control of student flows and a reduction of mass compartments, on the other hand, they have already shown effect where they were introduced: The students now study medicine two semesters faster and are 90 percent successful in completing. I wonder, Is that so bad? At the end of the day, I can say something about the competition: The competitive component is an important step towards excellence in the distribution of funds. We have committed ourselves to this excellence in the government programme, and the FWF certainly plays an essential role there. I therefore also welcome the opportunity of opportunity Hiring, because it allows us to quickly access excellent international teaching and research personalities, and we need these best minds for Austria. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8956	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Martin Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8977	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! It has already been said a lot on today's subject, some of the opposition's sides have also been comprehensible, but I want to stretch a small arch from core over Kuntzl to Hammerschmid. Mr. Kern was once the Federal Chancellor of this Republic, his word is very important – I suppose – even in the oppositional ranks. He says that the most important social policy institution is the universities, gives up a speech, was not in the committee – I didn't see him – it wasn't important enough to him, and after his speech he goes back. [[Abg. Kuntzl: Important enough for him to speak here!]] He's not capable of talking when I look at it like that, or he doesn't want to hear it! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So if something's important to me, I'll take part in the discussion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] – I am very grateful to you, Mrs Kuntzl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] Your motion for a law is not linked to the university reform of the 2002 UG, but is your request, which has not found a majority; it may be very sad. However, we already want to remember that on 12.12.2016, the Supreme Court – the Constitutional Court – repealed this regulation concerning the students of work. [[Abg. Kuntzl: The Constitutional Court!]] As far as I can remember are They were still in the government twelve months later. [[Abg. Kuntzl: You can change that!]] Why didn't you fix it? [[Abg. Kuntzl: Have we had a counterpart?]] Why didn't you fix it? - Yes, yes. [[Abg. Arbitrator: That was yesterday in the Scientific Committee!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Who voted down? - You!]] You always want to fix it if you have no way to fix it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: You don't want to fix it at all, that's the difference!]] They have just forgotten that there is a government programme in which a lot of things are envisaged and that a lot is being done. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Why did you vote against it if you were for it anyway?]] Look, your twelve-month inactivity needs to be your responsibility before your voters. [[Abg. Arbitrator: What about your crasher?]] We have definitely become active and have ensured one thing: more money for universities, as much as never before – both for teaching and for research and for infrastructure. Our task will be to exercise some control here together as to whether the money will be spent sufficiently efficiently. If I listen to the contributions made by colleagues from SPÖ, especially by colleague Hammerschmid, I have to say that it surprises me why she does not actually agree. The only thing that my colleague Hammerschmid obviously did not understand is that in 2002 university autonomy came and, therefore, not everything to the last detail is to be regulated in a law, but some of it should still be left to the autonomy. This may not be the access of my colleague Hammerschmid. All other points have actually welcomed her, so it is surprising that she is then against the law. I would also like to say a word to Mr Cox: So I like it when Austrian scientists get a reputation abroad. This is the best business card for us Austrians, which shows that we actually have good conditions and excellent researchers here. I am proud if they follow such a reputation and can thereby continue to improve and contribute to society both nationally and internationally. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also be proud – I am not an opponent of a mass university, I have always said so – if in Austria students would take two hours for a lecture because the lecturer is so good. That would be something. I know this from abroad, there are two, three, four hours, sometimes even much longer to hear a speaker who is outstanding – and that must be our goal. I always say, If you have never experienced studying in a full or overcrowded audience, you can also use the time of waiting usefully. In the end, the study access restrictions have introduced SPÖ in their time of government, you should already know. Mrs Hammerschmid, you have even led a university where you have handled this quite restrictively – and now you are surprised that we have not negotiated it away. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But one thing we've already done: We have seen that there are more places for students than under a SPÖ-dominated government under a German Chancellor core – and that is a success!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9158	Next item is the report by Mr Nico Marchetti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9182	Madam President. Estimated Minister Fässmann! Ladies and gentlemen! As a speaker for the concerns of the students, of course, the improvements in the field of teaching are crucial to me. Now there are 510 million euros more in this university funding. Because the colleagues from the list Pilz said that's far too little: I figured it out that that would be about 212 million kickl photo masks you used earlier. I think that's pretty neat. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Let's imagine, this is a hearing room, and that wouldn't even be the biggest one in Austria. With this new package that we want to decide today, it is true that only 40 students come to a scientific staff instead of the up to triple number as it is at the moment. This support relationship would be a good one, because if you imagine, then I could now refer to only 40 of you in this course of university financing again, then I could even take a close look at the details and contradictions of the SPÖ colleagues, which are massively present. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You asked the SPÖ – in the course you may have forgotten to write – that the universities get more money, that the money is indicator-based and code-based there – and that is exactly what we decide today! I would also like to say that I find it interesting if Members of this House, who do not follow the discussions, say of us that we made a staging, and ironically, via Facebook video that we would start an elite project here. I'll tell you something. It does not help any young person in this country when he has started to study, but it helps him if he has actually completed his studies. And that's what we're talking about here at this university package. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: When does the Lord Kurz complete his studies?]] We want to increase the number of students active in the exam by 4.5 percent, and that is what we are talking about. I mean, it's good if the students who really want to study get in the courses reliably and get a quality that is also really appropriate in the courses. This is given with the 500 additional professorships that we now ensure with it. I'm asking you now: Is it an elite project when one requires a student to complete his studies? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Request this from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany shortly before you speak to us!]] Is that really an elite project? – I’d say no, that’s just what you can demand. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] If you are generously talking about open universities here, you must also say: Under your rule, the study entrance phase and the Knock-out tests were decided. This is the reality at the universities, and so many students are frustrated and will not continue at all. [[Abg. Arbitrator: That's why the short has not finished studying!]] So what you're saying here is pure theory and also quite polemic, I mean. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, however, I would like to express my express thanks to the NEOS and, in particular, to Mr Gamon for showing how constructive opposition is in the sense of the students. I think that the colleagues from the SPÖ can really cut off a slice. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say: A positive point is also – it has already been mentioned – that we are now creating a simplified system to react quickly and bring international leaders to our universities. This makes the teaching competitive, good and better for us students, because we can really learn from top speakers. We're always told to get up if we want to change something. I ask you all: Get up for us today! That's a real improvement. So you can really help us students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9285	Reported as follows: Mrs Martina Kaufmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9303	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! But above all: Dear spectators who follow the plenary session today! I am happy as a Grazer Ladies and gentlemen, to give my first speech here on a subject that concerns my home town as a study location enormously. We have 51,000 students in Graz at the four universities, which is why this topic is of particular importance to us. The teachers, the students and also the employees shape our location, but of course also our labour market. This law has succeeded in increasing human resources. On the one hand, a career perspective can be offered to young scientists, and on the other hand, by changing the care key, it is possible to bring about quality improvements in teaching. This is particularly important in my opinion, for who of us does not know that, you have a lecture in an overcrowded audience? That's something every student, every student in Austria is used to. You're just a number, a number that's completely anonymous. A demand from a professor, with a professor, is simply impossible – no wonder, because in fields of study such as pedagogy we have a support key of 1: 123, in foreign languages 1 : 73 and in legal sciences 1 : 70. This means, as we have already mentioned several times today, that we have a relatively high drop-out ratio, e.g. 72 percent in legal sciences and 68 percent in foreign languages. This should be a clear task for us to look at it more closely and to change the care key, thus also bringing out more quality – and not less of what the SPÖ colleagues are talking about all the time. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I myself was part of this drop-out quota a few years ago. At the time, I chose a more efficient system, the University of Applied Sciences, Not because I had bad teachers at the university, but because simply the number of students was too high for the capacities. At the University of Applied Sciences it was possible for us to discuss and discuss specific topics and questions with our speakers, and that is exactly what we have to do at the universities. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I have succeeded in completing a study with these educational careers, only the question we should all ask ourselves here is: What happens to those who don't? As Members of Parliament, we have the responsibility to create the framework conditions for universities, teachers and students who ensure that a drop-out quota at this level is not achieved at all. With the plus of EUR 1 350,000,000, we are able to finance 500 professorships and assistant staff in addition. This is an important step in reducing exit scenarios and in having more exam-active students in our country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Especially young academics have good job opportunities in our country, and this is especially important for us that we also provide well-trained staff for the economy. Finally, I would like to say: For example, Austria can continue to play an important role in research and development. With this law, let us create the framework conditions that our students and teachers have earned in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9369	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. This will result in the vote which I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft federal law amending the University Act 2002, including title and entry into 10 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign of approval for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the draft law. – This is accepted by a majority. I shall come to the third reading immediately. Whoever gives his consent in the third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was therefore adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 21 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note? - That's the majority. This report has also been taken note of. [[11:54:44]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 35/A by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser, Walter Rauch, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Farmers' Social Insurance Act (18 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9452	This leads us to the 3rd place. Agenda item. I welcome Mr Hartwig Lögerund, Minister of State DDr. Hubert Fuchs. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First word reported: Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9494	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Imagine, it is the Budget Committee and the Minister of Finance is not going! We would understand this if he were sick, not a question – because the Secretary of State has come sick as his representative. We would also understand this if he had been abroad, for example, in Brussels; but as far as we were able to get from the Austrian Press Agency, the Minister of Finance was in Klagenfurt on the day of the Budget Committee at 3.30 p.m. and gave a talk in a bank. Why do I say that at the beginning? . I do not think this is a very kind act to the members of the committee, even if the Minister of Finance is now talking to Mr Berlakovich and does not give us his attention. [[in the direction of the with Abg. Berlakovich speaking Federal Ministers Löger]] [[Abg. Neubauer: The core was not there at all! Turn in your own house!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There were important materials in the first large budget committee that we could hold. We had a item on the agenda, which was almost a mistake in the Committee on Budgets, because it had been heard in the Committee on Budgets, which was exactly one day before. So there would have been any way to discuss the Farmers' Social Insurance Act where it belongs, but no, we discussed it in the Budget Committee, where it actually does not belong. What is it about, ladies and gentlemen? – In 2015, the Constitutional Court set out a recalculation of the unit values for farmers, followed by the last government, resulting in a recalculation of social security contributions. This requirement for contributions was relocated by the majority parties in the Budget Committee last week. This means, ladies and gentlemen, a loss of contribution of exactly 40 million euros, which in particular benefits the large farmers. As I and previous speakers have said before me: One is given, the other is taken, and whoever is taken, that is clearly on hand. The FPÖ turns like a flag in the wind and has nothing left for people looking for work, has nothing left for the so-called little people and has only much left for the rich in this country. [[Abg. Little: Something else doesn't appeal to you anymore?]] I'm just saying that 4 400 jobs-seeking older women and men have found a job that they would not have found without support. [[Abg. tiny: How far away are you from the real economy?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: You have no idea of social policy at all! Just because you happen to sit in the Committee now! Read it again!]] Many young people, ladies and gentlemen, have found a job in over-company teaching workshops, which give young people up to 25 the training guarantee. You delete the labour market service 600 million euros, and exactly the people you have given up to represent will now suffer. [[Abg. Little: That's right, too!]] And the ÖVP was never there anyway, we know that.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9590	Reported as follows: Mrs Angela Baumgartner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9614	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the High House and also at home! I am very happy and proud to be able to give my first speech here in the House on a very important topic for our farmers. Why is the unit value so important? – The uniform value is the basis for many taxes, taxes, contributions and aid, for example for basic tax, for taxes to the financial office, for income tax, for basic income tax on agricultural transfers, for church contributions, for study aid and for agricultural social security. And why are there new unit values? – Over many years, the assessment of land ownership in Austria has been postponed. The last actual assessment of all agricultural and forestry holdings and land took place at 1.1.1988. It was therefore also high time for constitutional reasons to adapt the unit values to the current yield conditions. In November 2012, the National Council established the legal basis for this purpose, with the deadline 1.1.2014. As a result, the BMF has prepared and announced evaluation guidelines and sent out the declaration forms. The work for programming and drawing up almost 600 000 decisions was obviously underestimated by the financial management. At any rate, the original schedule could not be observed and there were significant delays. The last great wave of broadcasts to new records, especially for the tenants, took place in December 2017 or January 2018. All unit value statements issued by the financial offices shall then also be transmitted to the farmers' social security institution and processed by them for the prescribing of the new contributions. In principle, the unit-value decisions will develop their social security effectiveness with the beginning of the quarter following the delivery to the insured person. This Regulation shall be in the BSVG and shall apply in a uniform manner, irrespective of whether it is an increase or a reduction in the unit value. Now we are faced with the fact that a large number of modestys only after the 31st century. ==References====External links== This means different dates of effectiveness for our farmers at the same time, namely the calculation of the contributions due to the current head of unit. This also presents almost insurmountable administrative obstacles to the SVB. In fact, with the different dates of effectiveness, the single date laid down by law is the one set out in the previous legislative text with 1. January 2017 was determined, no longer given. The new Government Convention lays down the shift in the main value of the single currency. Today's decision takes this point into account. The terms for the single-value fixation shall be 1st. It shall be effective on 4 April 2018. This means equal treatment and legal certainty for farmers at last: Equal treatment, therefore, because there is now a uniform deadline, This is why legal certainty is due to the threat of rollbacks up to the 1st century. January 2017 and therefore may be very high additional payments for the farms can be avoided. This means that the rural families have planning security again. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The agreed later date of effectiveness thus guarantees a single new deadline for the transitional provisions already laid down by law and also the partial suspension of increases in contribution caused by larger unit value increases for small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, with the shift in social security effectiveness, the administration in the SVB is also facilitated, which can now take place after a single deadline. However, I would ask you not to believe that there has been no increase in contributions to farmers since 2014. The requirements for contributions are adjusted automatically each year. The upgrading rate is set by law, and it is 2.9 percent for 2018, for example. I am pleased that by this decision we can give many farmers legal certainty and thus planning security. This is good and important, because agriculture needs above all one thing: Framework conditions that are left to do. That we can also contribute to simplify implementation and administrative implementation with the new regulation is a welcome fact. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9675	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9700	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! What we have in front of us here is a law directly from the typewriter of the Farmers' Federation. [[Remarkableness and condolences with the NEOS and the Abg. Vogl.]] The 2012 Tax Amendment Act made it necessary to establish the uniform values, and, okay, the decision-making exercise took a little while, and the Chamber Vice-President Theresia Meier therefore wrote in the annual report of the SVB 2016 that on the homepage one can calculate with the contribution calculator how much one has to expect now, therefore, the legal certainty is ensured, one knows if there is any additional payment. In April 2017 – unlike the woman mayor did – Dr. Weisselbrun published from the Chamber of Agriculture on the LWK homepage: “The single-value statement is largely completed with an issue rate of 97 to 98 percent.” – Since April, more people are expected to have received a notice, and for the few, however, there is now a need for a law? - No, it doesn't need a law! What really happened? – For four country elections, the Farmers' Federation has needed a gift for its own clients. Since December, it has been possible to read in every farmer's federal newspaper that we are bringing the "debursements directly to the courts" as farmers' federal head Strasser formulates his miserable client policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9742	Mr Loacker, I would ask you to be moderate in terms of expression. You know that didn't match the dignity of the house.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9757	Yes, Madam President, I am sorry! So how he puts his client policy, which I despise, in words. Now the SVB lacks 40 million euros from higher contributions, but that may be the case for the SVB because it is essentially tax-financed anyway. That is to say, the Community of taxpayers has financed this 40 million euro gift to the farmers' association. That is how it happened a year ago with the farmers' quarter, which we gave half to the farmers. This is an election gift and the SVB serves as a paying agency. There's nothing too bad about the ÖVP. That's where you're wondering: How can this come about? . It is obvious that some songs were sung by the liberals in the basement, that the Minister of Finance was not in the committee at all, that the matter was not sent to the committee responsible, but was passed by the experts of the Committee on Budgets and housed in the Committee on Budgets. [[Abg. Little: Well, please!]] – Conditions as in Albania, you should get yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9797	The next item is the speech by Mr Walter Rauch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9821	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! There have been adventurous statements by the two opposition parties here from this speaker's desk – in the truest sense of the word. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek! I was with this committee. You've been evoking yourself, you've got yourself - - – Mr Krainer, you're the next one to do it! [[Abg. Krainer: You didn't even know what the costs were! That's embarrassing!]] You're next. You do not even know a committee in the Rules of Procedure. Okay, that's the one track; but if here a Member of Parliament, who was a minister himself, is evocative about the fact that a minister can be represented by a State Secretary, then I find this embarrassing, then I find it really embarrassing. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I explained that!]] I find that embarrassing. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I explained that! I explained the reasons!]] In addition, one goes back and considers the Committee to be improperly responsible, although it is well known that there was no committee at the time of the submission of this request – well, then it was quite clear that this measure was being addressed in the Budget Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And quite honestly, Mr. Krainer was evocative about: There are no experts in the committee! and, and, and. The Minister of Social Affairs, former Minister of Social Affairs, Stöger, has implicitly and explicitly prepared for this subject and has also referred to the subject-matter accordingly. So if you don't see your own experts in your party anymore, then good night, SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The step is that we are starting to determine the effectiveness of the unit value on the 1st. Moving on April 2018 is an important step. Why? – There are very, very many small-scale families, which will be very, very, very intense or also affected by this measure in the final effect. And it is important that there is a uniform determination to maintain legal certainty for all agricultural holdings that are important in our country, which are important for our tourism and which, of course, are also important for a family structure in this area. I know about the SPÖ, that was never your horse, that was it never, but it is important for our society, important for our country, that there really are measures in this area that relieve these businesses and provide legal certainty, and that is crucial for us. [[Abg. Plessl: That's not true! Who's got...?]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This planning security is also a basis of existence for these companies. These are mostly small businesses which also need to be protected accordingly. We also know that there have been problems in notification delivery in the past, and this measure will be repaired in the meantime.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9922	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Bruno Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9946	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! One thing is not possible, Minister of State: If we have the first major meeting of the Committee on Budgets, you told us at the first meeting of the Committee on Budgets that we should hold high-quality debates in this committee, and you did not appear to be at this committee meeting at first, because you apparently felt it necessary to attend an election event at your former host in Carinthia – we did not very much appreciate this in order to say it openly and kindly, Minister of Finance. When it comes to gifts to farmers, it cannot be fast enough, then it must pass by the committee responsible, the Committee. I can't take the words of my previous speaker, Mr Rauch, at all. What would have prevented us from giving this matter to that committee where it belongs in order to hold the corresponding quality debate in that committee? – This was probably not felt necessary, because it is about client policy and nothing else. And it was embarrassing that the Secretary of State could not give us any information about how high the costs for this client policy are for the farmers resulting from the shift in the effectiveness of the single value determination. 40 million euros, we learned today in the early morning. And now I am asking you, Minister of Finance – I am also reading the Coalition Agreement, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, and there is a clear and clear inside that measures that lead to budgetary costs also need to be counter-financing – please tell me, Minister of Finance, how the counter-financing of this 40 million euros looks like! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] We got a taste for it yesterday. We have seen that the active labour market budget is to be reduced by a third. Does this, for example, serve to finance this measure for farmers? Give us an answer, Minister of State! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9987	The next item is the speech by Mr Franz Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10011	Madam President. High house! Mrs. A. D., Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek! This law is not about large farms, it is a mistake, but it is about exactly the 10 percent of the 25 000 farms that organize horseback riding in Austria. [[Abg. Loacker: Riding?]] So it's explicitly about small businesses, and I think we've talked about security this morning, now we're talking about clarity and justice 25 000 farms, 120,000 horses impart joy, sport, also the reality of life at the farm with dying and life, love for the animals and so on, and I think that's a small, fine troop we're regulating here. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Heinisch-Hosek, Krainer and Vogl]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I didn't talk about riding! You're talking about riding!]] There has long been a discussion between the industrial establishments and those who keep horses in the farm today, and we have been able to create clarity for these farms as a result of the change in the trade regulations. There was also no more insurance protection for these small businesses, and we are also now able to complement it here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is therefore clarity as to the demarcation between the commercial farms and the rural, clearness to the farms and clarity for the farms and justice in insurance, and I think that we have also made a contribution here. Dear Lord Mag. Loacker, first of all, I would like to tell you that our farmers do not use typewriters anymore, but e-mails. [[Complementary of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] You only need to look at the large amount of support that farmers have to make today, then you know how well you can handle emails. Secondly, especially to you, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, when we speak of justice: This government takes a relief from companies in the order of about one billion euros by reducing the insolvency-pay fund and by also bringing about a discharge at the Flaf. In these days, the reduction of VAT comes back to where it belongs, namely to 10 percent. My colleague, Mr Schellhorn, will be pleased that we will also clarify this injustice that we have done to tourism accordingly. [[Interlocutors Klaus Uwe Feichtinger and Königsberger-Ludwig.]] I think the many tourism companies in our country deserved to support them, and if we are just – and that is really justice – to relieve the low incomes up to EUR 1 940 by exempting them from the unemployment insurance contribution, then this is a contribution just as much as the family bonus you are fighting. Mr. Krainer is, I believe, not here – or is he already here? – he would have to teach his group that tax relief and deductibility can only be done where taxes are also paid. I believe that it is important that we in our country also relieve those who pay the taxes, which is anyway the smaller part. With 4.4 million people in employment and 1.1 million pensioners, only 3.3 million Austrian taxes pay, and if we want to relieve those who carry out the work, we are on the right track here. I think we have also created clarity and justice with this small but fine law – justice that you always preach that we implement. Thank you very much, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10088	Next speaker: Mr Markus Vogel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10109	The last Committee on Budgets, I believe, was also a good example of the functioning of this new federal government. [[Abg. Povysil: Boah!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] It has already been pointed out in advance that this draft law is clearly a matter of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, and the former Minister for Labour Stöger, I think, has done it very well, and the EIA's response to it was: It can be seen that there is, as it were, expertise on this issue in this committee. This means that if I continue to think about this, we will be discussing a novel on road transport regulations in the future in the Committee on Foreign Affairs or how? There, with colleague Jörg Leichtfried, a well-known expert in the field of transport is sitting there. But what works well is solidarity and cohesion between the two coalition partners. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] The FPÖ immediately launched a discharge offensive, the problem was only: The Blue Swords of smoke have taken the view of the rider when one hears the argument that this issue could only be dealt with in the Committee on Budgets, because it was on 20 June. The Committee has not yet given its opinion on the matter. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this one is on 21 March. December has been constituted, and we have here a matter that has been open for many years, and all of a sudden we are in a hurry. We could still assign this matter to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. March, and we would still be implementing in good time. So there you can see how this whole argument is drawn to the hair. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, we would also have liked to ask the Committee: What's the cost? We got the answer in the morning: The negligence and non-negotiation of the former Minister of Finance Schelling costs taxpayers 40 million euros. We could not ask what was also a moral image of how to deal with this House. It is the Minister's right to be represented by his State Secretary. The question is why. There has clearly been a black cooperative bank in its value and importance over the Austrian Parliament. And if I ask now, Why can we not spend 17 million euros on the adult protection law that is urgently needed? We can then consider how the value of this population group is set in relation to others. [[Abg. Little: That's not true! Lies! Untruths!]] [[Interlocutors Black and Strasser.]] [[Call of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10189	Next item is the report by Mr Franz Leonhard Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10214	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Clearly today, the discussion on the issue of the committee's approach to the bill is inflamed. It is important to me that it becomes a good law and not in which committee it is dealt with. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] If Mrs Heinisch-Hosek says that this law is for the great, then she is wrong, because it is more reversed in this law, in so far as it favours mainly smaller farms. The main objective of the law, however, is not to favour someone, but to unite the effective and entry into force of provisions on social security contributions, otherwise we would have five, six, seven different time periods of entry into force, because, if a decision is notified after 1.1.2017, it can, of course, enter into force and become effective at the earliest with the following quarter. To prevent this, this law is to be decided today. If, of course, Mr Rossmann is also echoing and talking about gifts to the farmers once again, when Mr Loacker says jealously that the Farmers' Federation is making good policies, well, then I acknowledge this envy to him: The NEOS are not able to make good policies, so we need a strong peasant society – we need not be ashamed of that – with a strong EIA in the background! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] This good policy is important and this law is also important for farmers. I want the peasant family farms to be fine, and the ÖVP also wants this and the whole government wants it to be good for farmers accordingly. [[Abg. Rosary: Exactly! Me too!]] That is why we unite with this law the effectiveness of the uniform values for the calculation of social security contributions. Perhaps this word – uniform values – does not give what it wants for one person or another, but that is basically the basis for calculating the flat-rate income, taxes and taxes. I think we have already managed in the past, with this single value on a profit-based basis, to provide unbureaucratic solutions for our farmers, for farmers. There may be some other areas that might look a little different. [[Abg. Rossmann:... package to not pay taxes!]] The joint action, I believe, is a very important matter and should be decided in this way. I also thank you for paying the refund amount in full, in accordance with § 24d of the Farm Social Insurance Act, which has been available since the 2015 tax reform, to those farmers or to those farmers who have a single value increase of more than 10 percent that this is possible in a targeted manner. In turn, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, will benefit the smaller farmers in particular – this government sees that they are doing well accordingly. Nevertheless, I believe that in addition, looking into the future, one can still see whether there are no other possibilities for a permanent discharge – a key word exemption for direct payments or the like. Finally, Mr Hörl has already given an opinion on this: During the last government period, we have already decided that the recruitment of horse-riding horses is up to 25 pieces below the original farm production, but with a gap in the area of accident insurance. We are closing this gap today, and I should also like to thank you for that. So it is a good law, ladies and gentlemen. You agree to the law!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10284	Now Mr Ddr. Hubert Fuchs. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10306	Mr Finanzminister! High house! Values Advisors! If I hear from the SPÖ here that we're in a hurry at once, you're perfectly right: We have come here to take the government programme step by step as soon as possible, in particular in order to reorient the failure of the past. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: I believe you have the wrong partner!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: We don't hear that, Jarolim!]] By the way, we can read it in the government programme, in turn, there are two important points that we are putting into place here for the better protection of farmers and forestry farmers, namely, the introduction of a suitable suspension of the strongly increasing social security payments due to the new unit values, namely – and I have to contradict you here – especially in smaller farms and in the leases and not in large businesses. [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, yes!]] On the other hand, it is a shift in the effectiveness of the main social security fixation from 1.1.2017 to 1.4.2018. The shift in effectiveness by five quarters ensures equal treatment for all the farms concerned and the protection of these farmers. It should not be seen that some of the farmers have to pay the social security contributions on the basis of the increased unit values, only because the main determination decisions had already been made, while those who had not yet received a new main confirmation would have to pay the social security contributions on the basis of the lower unit values. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This would be a legal arbitrariness which must be avoided in the sense of equal treatment for farmers. I'm seeking approval of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10381	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 18 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the draft law to give an appropriate sign. This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the draft law the approval in third reading, I ask for a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[12:27:52]] 4. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment 99/A by Dr Angelika Winzig, Erwin Angerer, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Legal Budget Provision for 2018 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020 (19d.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10442	We're on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kai Jan Krainer is the first to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10473	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the budget for the coming years. At the moment, there is still a proposal that is becoming a legal commission today, but in a few weeks, this federal government must confess color to the Minister of Finance, as they must put the cards on the table what the budget of the coming years should actually look like. If we remember what the government said before the election, even after the election, then there was a lot of reasonable things. They said we wanted to make management more efficient – we can sign that. They said we don't want to save people, we want to save in the system – you can't actually say anything about it. You said you wanted to make Austria fairer, you want to make Austria better – we all want to do so, so we are in politics to make Austria better in order to make Austria fairer. But if we look at ourselves now – and that can only be the tip of the iceberg – what the budget policy will actually look like, what is actually planned or what has actually happened, then a completely different picture is shown. You came up with the words: We want to make the administration more efficient!, but what have you done? – They have used police commissioners. They call them Secretary-General, but you have actually been employed in the Ministries of Political Commissioners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Deimek: What is the difference between a blue and a red Secretary-General?]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Political Commissioner, this is more your philosophy...!]] This has not made you anything more efficient, so you have made the administration more expensive only. You said you wanted to save in the system and not with people. – What has come out since yesterday and is to be read in all media shows that you are doing exactly the opposite: You save in the system zero, you save directly from people. They save those people who have problems in life, who are anything but good. We are talking about people who are over 50 years old and who do not have jobs that are discriminated against in the labour market – you are removing the means through which they have a chance to enter the labour market. We are talking about the apprentices who want to train in apprenticeship firms, in over-company teaching workshops. And what are you doing? – The money you delete these people! [[Abg. Little: That's not true at all!]] We are talking about the refugees of war, about whom we all said that they should make a kind of civil service, that they should make an integration year, that they should learn how Austria works, how it works, and take a foothold on the labour market. [[Abg. Gudenus: Just not! Protection on time! ... home!]] What to do You here? – You're putting the money out! That's the opposite of what you said! They save people's lives, and they don't get well with those who don't. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you believe that you are making Austria fairer or better, then you are mistaken. You're making Austria worse, and you should be ashamed of that!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10561	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr.in Angelikack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10582	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Krainer, you are not out as an apprentice. It is certainly not deleted in the promotion of apprentices. And: There is not only the teaching in the over-company institutions, there are them especially in operation, and that is a sustainable teaching. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr Rossmann, I am very disappointed by you today because you said that a high-quality discussion in the Committee would not have been possible, since the Minister for Finance was not there. [[Oh-Rufe]] I have to say, Mr. MMag. DDr. Fuchs has answered the questions perfectly, has put himself in an excellent position and has also gained his great experience from the practice. [[Abg. Kassinger: He can do something!]] Perhaps we should consider, Mr Rossmann, and Mr Krainer, asking the questions more structured. Perhaps then the quality of the discussion increases. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] ==References== In December here in the House, a legal budget commission and an amendment of the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020 were decided, as it was not possible to negotiate the Federal Finance Act 2018 after new elections and government formation due to the timing. Otherwise, the new Vice-Chancellor's office, the UG 17 – public service and sport – would not have been fully operational, which would certainly not have been within the meaning of our citizens. The explanations on this legal budget provisional already provided for changes resulting from the German Federal Ministry Act Novelle 2017 and that is why Mr Angerer and I have tabled this request today. In addition to designations, the budget structure, the staff plan, will also be changed to reworks of detailed budgets. These changes therefore form the basis for the upcoming double budget 2018/2019. Of course, the total amount of the 2018 ceiling remains unchanged. Ladies and gentlemen, we are just ahead of the budget speech and shortly before the budget process in the National Council. This should not be confused, Mr. Krainer, we are not discussing the 2018 budget today. In 2017, due to the economic growth of 3 percent, which we achieved primarily through the export activities of our entrepreneurs – a warm thanks to them – we were able to fulfil the fiscal rules essentially. The structural deficit is expected to fall below 0.5 percent, and the debt ratio will fall from 83.6 percent to 77.7 percent of GDP. [[Abg. Krainer: But you also talk about the billing!]] Nevertheless, the President of the Fiscal Council, Professor Felder, strongly warned us of an expansive budget policy in a phase of the high economy like the one we hope to have long ago, especially since we have already built up a corresponding financial backpack, especially thanks to the SPÖ, in the pre-election campaign. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Plessl.]] Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! I can only underline your objective towards structural zero deficit, because Austria should be a country of opportunity and prevent debt from future opportunities.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10656	The next item is Mrs Dipl.-Ing.in Karin Doppelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10681	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers! What is it about today? – It is about that we have the second part of the proposal for the decision-making of the budget procedure ahead of us, in concrete terms the proposal for a federal law, which amends the statutory budget procedure 2018 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020. The procedure and also the request are on and on itself okay, are all right, empty artis made, but we still cannot vote in favour, so will vote against it because the laws are simply not made good for many reasons. In concrete terms, our criticism is that there are constant increases on the expenditure side. And where? – Exactly with the classics – we all know them –: Pensions, social security, health care. [[Abg. Neubauer: Why are you against pensions?]] And the next construction site we opened last year before the election, with the abolition of the care decree. You all remember, it was a constituency sugar that was decided about half a year ago. With regard to the costs associated with it, a figure of about 100 million euros has been mentioned to us. At the time, we were the only ones who did not vote, for a good reason: not because we cannot or do not want to discuss it, but because we have said that the figures are simply not voting. It's half a year later, and what happened? – We all do not know to this day how much the abolition of the care rule will really cost us – it’s just that – and we don’t know who will take care of it at the end of the day. The communities say quite correctly – and I understand that perfectly, that is comprehensible – they cannot afford it. The countries are directing us or directing the Federal Government through the media, nor are they able to do so. So who's gonna lift it? – Tax payers. Now, of course, one can say that this has nothing to do with the current Federal Government and one has to look into the future. – Yes, but two very important reforms were also addressed by the ÖVP and the FPÖ in the election campaign, which are also very important to us as NEOS, namely the abolition of the cold progression and the anchoring of the debt brakes in the Constitution. Now I would like to say to Mr. Löger: Mr Federal Minister, we both come from large groups, from large companies, and I think we know very well how to implement major reforms in such institutions. We know what you normally do when you're dealing with this big thing: It needs fresh wind at first, it needs new heads. The next step is to try to implement these reforms if the economy is stable when the company is doing well. And you look at: What are the Quick Wins, i.e. these fast things that can be implemented and which have immediate effects and effects? Dear Members of the Federal Government! As far as the new minds are concerned, you have brought experts to the Federal Government. The economy is growing and brumbling, we are in a high time – it will not last forever. And there are two reforms that are on the table, namely the abolition of cold progression and the anchoring of debt brakes. Both you can make fast, it's these so-called Quick Wins – both could be implemented by summer, you could decide now. But what is missing from the whole is simple and simply a schedule. If you ask, it always says: Yes, this will happen in the next few years, and it's good and right!, but it's nothing specific. That's why we'd really say: Dear Members of the Federal Government, you have promised a lot in the election campaign, and you have also promised many good things in the election campaign – even that has already been said – but they are implemented, and now you have the necessary framework conditions. In the meantime, we as NEOS will do what we have promised our electorate, namely that we will look at you very closely and that we will continue as a reform turbo on these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10719	The next item is Mr Erwin Angerer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10744	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps one more word to Mr Kai Jan Krainer, so that one might take up what he said. I hope your future party leader has been part of your speech. The Emperor is said to be, as one hears, on the way from Carinthia to Vienna, and Mrs. Schaunig will then become the country's main woman in his place. [[Oh-run of the Abg. Hairer]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[New Oh-Ruf des Abg. Haider.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Listen, hear! Flying change!]] So I hope that he heard that, because in Carinthia, which is the key to saving the people, he abolished the cost compensation that the liberals introduced, he reduced the heating allowance, and he abolished the baby's money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] So much to save on the people who need it, gell, Mr Kai Jan Krainer? [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] And now to the Federal Financial Framework Act and to what we are actually talking about today, namely the Budget Provision – that is not about the new budget, because that is what our ministers in the ministries will be working on, and we will have a lot of time to discuss here. In fact, this is nothing but an adjustment to the current ministerial structure so that the Ministries are allocated their appropriate financial resources and also the staff. So the budget's provision has been adjusted, nothing else is included in this law. One point on the new budget and perhaps on the NEOS, because you, Mrs. Double Bauer, have raised the care sentence again today, and Mr Loacker has also made a full grievance in the “Report” about the mayors because they have agreed to the care rules. [[Abg. Loacker: Yes, Lord Mayor!]] - I'll be right there! This is a very good subject, and I would like to talk about it. The new budget will have a responsibility for tasks, expenditure and financing. This is very important, and I know what I'm talking about, because I've been mayor for over 15 years and I've been sitting here in Parliament for a few years. [[Bravoruf des Abg. Rosary]] It is very important to bring together tasks, expenditure and financing responsibilities. As far as care rules are concerned, I'm a thousand percent in helping people. They stand in my office, because they come to my mayor's office and stand in front of me when a caretaker dies and then they have to auction the house because they can't pay the bill they get from the country. They're with me! They can't go in here because we're immune, fired here and you're shuddering in here about the mayors who call you "local skiers". The mayors are therefore faced with these problems, and I therefore insist that this care rule has been abolished and that a discharge of these citizens and these people is happening here, 100 percent. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It's just that I'm just as much in favour of talking about how to finance it. [[Abg. Loacker: You agreed to a law whose financing was not good!]] One cannot, of course, do this at the expense of the communities, and therefore there are discussions which have already been announced by the Minister of Social Affairs, with our representatives, with the local government, where this is then discussed, a joint financing, divided into all the local authorities you want to abolish. They want to abolish federalism in Austria and establish a European superstate, but we want to live federalism, because we are not guided by big corporations and freemasons like you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10910	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Bruno Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10934	When am I on it? When am I coming?
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10949	Mr deputies, you're on it now. I gave you the floor, you're right.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10968	Thank you, Madam President. – Mrs Minzig, when I speak of quality debates, I believe that we will also get the relevant documents so that we can also discuss on this basis. But if we only find out in the early days that this government template costs EUR 40 million, then we cannot assume that there are quality documents. We do not know to this day, although the law has already been passed on how it will be financed. Now I don't know, anyone will have to explain this to us! [[Call to the ÖVP: There is a Finance Minister!]] Perhaps the Minister of Finance is still doing so afterwards. Mrs Minzig, quality debates also mean presenting the right thing in the Committee. The Secretary of State has told us there that this law will not have an impact on the budget, but only on social security funds. However, if there is a lack of revenue for social security institutions, this will naturally have an impact on the budget, because the agricultural social security scheme is a significant contribution from the budget. So, of course, one thing goes into the budget! - That's how it looks! And if you want to put the debt backpack on the SPÖ, Mrs.ckinck, I would like to remind you and your party that since 1986 you have been in a continuous order in government responsibility, and every euro and every schilling that has been taken up in debt must be held responsible by you. - That's how it looks! [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Now to the present government proposal, to the legislative budget. So I didn't quite understand why you suddenly have to innovation this legal budget. Why this hurry? – There would have been no hurry at all! In earlier legislative periods, this was carried out in the budget and the corresponding redeployments in expenditure and in staff. But one thing I didn't understand at all, namely why the legal budget commission – in the original version – with 8. It's the first time that we've come into force. Why use 8. - Yes? What does that lead to? – This means that two invoices have to be kept for this year: one to the seventh. ==References====External links== January. That's what you call administrative simplification?- Oh, my God! - Please! It's new to government! Yes, this is new governance, as you and the FPÖ imagine, but there is no way to talk about savings in the administration. The opposite is the case. And I think it's a bit strange when Mr Chancellor spoke about it recently yesterday, that we need a slim state in order to be able to reduce taxes for the working people. We all know the promises this government makes to people, the family bonus on reducing unemployment insurance contributions, the corporate tax reduction for large donors à la Pierer, cold progression and the like. [[Abg. Gudenus: Two months in office, please!]] All this, however, favours the top two incomes, and for me the question is very well: Who will finance this? This will be financed mainly by the lower incomes, because you will not be able to tell me, Mrs Minzig, or also you, my group. [[Abg. Little: The family bonus?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, this will be achieved at EUR 2.5 billion in administrative savings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gudenus.]] [[Abg. Rosary: The non-taxers!]] We've seen a foretaste yesterday: The budget of labour market management is to be reduced by one third. And who are the people concerned? – These are not the beneficiaries of the top two incomes, no, these are people from the lower incomes, for example refugees, who are unemployed. But let us remain with the example of refugees and integration: The Secretary of State in the Committee on Budgets has told us whether the programmes for the integration of refugees are being continued: Yes, they are being continued because this is a measure recommended by the Fiscal Council. Yesterday, however, I had to read and learn that this measure is being reduced by 50 million euros, so the very opposite is the case. At last give us pure wine and tell us who will meet the financing of these tax gifts to the top two incomes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11084	Next came Mr Reinhold Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11106	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! I too can tell you, Mr Finanzminister, that as a new Member of Parliament you are already very surprised when you come to a budget committee and the Minister of Finance is not present. They were, as Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has said, at least in Carinthia – in Carinthia, which is excellently governed by Peter Kaiser and SPÖ, and this will also be impressively confirmed by the Carinthias on Sunday, ladies and gentlemen, so that this successful course can continue. [[Abg. Rosary: But not for long!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: 2018 you don't have to have an emperor anymore!]] And if we are already talking about the quality of the committee, I have to say that it's very surprising – I'm used to it as well – that you don't get the actual figures on demand and you only get them delivered much later. Unfortunately, at the present budget procedure, our fears, which we have had since the beginning, are confirmed and our criticism is confirmed. [[Abg. Rosary: Don't be afraid!]] Unfortunately, in the case of everything that has so far been penetrated by your budget plans, our fears will come true: On the one hand, a few taxpayers get a few sugars, and those who urgently need the necessary support stay on the road. The latest example is the savings in the AMS, the removal of funds for action 20 000 – and not just that! You also delete qualification measures and you reduce them at the over-company teaching workshops. And, Mrs. Colleague, it's already--
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I believe the speech you are giving here today is your first speech – I would ask that the use we have in the House, namely not to make intermediate calls at the first speech, also benefit Mr Einwallner. [[Consistency with SPÖ and list Pilz as well as the Abg. Krisper.]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11201	Thank you, Madam President. I'll hold it out, just call in between! I have an advantage: I have the microphone and the better arguments on my side. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] Let me finish the thought: It is precisely the over-company teaching workshops and these people who need the support very much, and if you remove it, it is also a moral picture of this policy which is being displayed here. Now I am bringing a final, final example of how this government operates, and that concerns the adult protection law. There's an unworthy back and forth. There's going to be shifted, then actually the biggest chuzpe comes out by saying: We do it, but we do not have a financial framework for it!, and now it comes – perhaps – yet again. Do you know what you're doing here? – Run here They are insecure and disdainful of the people concerned, the relatives, but also those who work and work in this field and care for people. If this is the new style of this federal government, then we can take a great deal of account of what is still happening to us; therefore: from our side a clear no to the present legislative budget and a very clear no to the budget plans that have been sent through so far by you, Minister of Finance! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11244	Mrs Nurten Yılmaz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11262	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Last year we passed the Integration Year Act with the Integration Year for War Refugees. The aim was to integrate the refugees of war, who have found protection in us, into society as soon as possible, but also into the labour market. This measure, this law was adopted by the social partners, by the Chambers, the Trade unions, industrial associations and many migration experts are very supportive and willing. What do we know yesterday afternoon? – That the new Federal Government, Schwarz-Blau, will go back to this law. You are not interested in the integration of the people who are here who will remain here, and you delete the measures we have decided half a year ago, wherever the programmes have already begun. You are not interested, and I think this is very, very bad, because with this measure you do not solve any problems of living together. On the contrary: What you're doing is getting tomorrow's problems in the way, and I think that's very, very bad. This will not only become a problem for the people who have found protection in our country, but also for all Austrians. We don't want these people to get damned, to walk around, not to work, nor to learn our language. And this is already a problem, since we know that these people will stay in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11298	Next item is Mrs Mag.a Ruth Becher's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11323	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget is currently in force. The planned cuts were presented yesterday in the Board of Directors, and the funding budget of the AMS – we have already heard it today – is expected to be reduced by almost 600 million euros. This shows that another Austrian success model is also being called into question – that has already been addressed by previous speakers –: By means of the funds provided, the over-company teaching workshops must not be maintained in the previous quality or quantity. To give a young person the feeling that he is not needed is actually the worst thing you can do to him. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Last year, 40 percent of all compulsory school leavers were looking for an apprenticeship. For them the task has been to write applications, and to these young people this has happened; at the writing dozens of applications, hundreds of applications break very many people, including adults. If you go to the AMS and talk to those affected: They have the feeling that they are no longer needed in the professional world and not finding a place. This also applies to young people, and it applies to every tenth youth who does not find a teaching place in the private sector. As a political leader, we can drop these people into a black hole, wherever it becomes more difficult to find connections and enter the professional world, or we say: Here are the over-company teaching workshops! What does this government want? – You can read about this, the Blum-Bonus should be brought out and re-funded. He was actually recruited in 2008 because he no longer brought the success that was imagined. In principle, however, apprenticeship promotions are always concerned with the question of money being put in the establishments instead of helping people where they are now, in the good facilities. They intend to take the money from these institutions, which have a great deal of competence and performance. In my constituency, there are a number of such over-company teaching workshops. There is an opportunity for young people in the Puchgasse alone, in other words in the Puchgasse. People to complete more than 96 teaching occupations. They work there with great enthusiasm, and half of them also work in the enterprises; the other half do their teaching there. I don't know if you, the government, have a picture of it when you destroy it. The young people build on building on these facilities. Act You don't have the fault of destroying these over-company facilities! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11368	Mrs Mag.a Karin Greiner is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11392	Madam President. High house! If we look at our economic data, we see these are consistently positive. We have a record growth which decreases government debt, employment rates are going up. The employment figures for over 50 years of age are not satisfactory, which was also the reason why the SPÖ has been so vehemently committed to the fact that the action can start 20 000. It was started in various test regions in Austria, and over this campaign 4 400 people got a job. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now it is said that 4,400 is a number; but behind this number are faces, CVs, families that have created hope. What are you doing? – They delete the 20 000 action without replacement. They cut the AMS funds by EUR 600 million, the EUR 400 million for the 20 000 action is no longer available. Why? It's incomprehensible. Why is it so incomprehensible? – I give you an example from the Steiermark: The region Graz-Umgebung-Voitsberg, which I politically represent here, was also a test region. We know from all regions where the 20 000 action has gone, that employment rates have increased in over 50 years of age. Unemployment rates have fallen by an average of 5 per cent. In Voitsberg, the unemployment rate fell by 45.2 percent for the 50-year-olds, almost halved. Voitsberg was the most successful test region in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is no human being and none of the affected families understand why you delete this action. It is not only incomprehensible, it is almost cynical, long-term unemployed who are finally beginning to take foot again, refusing support; but this seems to impress you little. What is important to you? – You need to distribute tax gifts for large businesses. [[Abg. New builder: Go, stop with this class-warring nonsense!]] Mr Finanzminister, your colported plan to reduce taxpayers is truly no contribution to more tax justice or transparency. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly confirmed that each auditor, in particular every large-scale auditor, is calculated 14 times to 30 times in comparison to what it costs. And you don't want these testers. We need them and we want them. We want to know what profits are generated in which farms. We want these profits to be taxed where they are generated. Saving auditors is tax gift policy. [[Mr Haubner and Mr Minzig.]] Or tourism: The industry is booming and you are reducing the sales tax on nights from 13 percent to 10 percent. This is a tax gift for tourism companies of 120 million euros per year. This is more important to you than a family father who is over 50 years old to give the chance to pursue a job until he can retire. We can't support that.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11446	Thank you very much. Mr Fuchs, State Secretary, spoke. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11470	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Values Advisors! I can do a few things right: On the one hand – perhaps it was just a promise made by Mr Krainer – we do not discuss the budget for the coming years. The budget is currently at work. Not even we in the BMF know the final budget, and I don't think you're a light seer and you know the budget figures. [[Abg. Rosary: Mr. Krainer knows about himself, he was in the Prater at the crystal ball!]] [[Abg. Krainer: We are currently discussing the Federal Financial Framework Act! Don't you know the agenda? The Federal Financial Framework Act is in place today, for five years!]] In addition, I would also like to say that the statutory budget procedure 2018, which we have decided here in December, requires an adjustment due to the Federal Ministry Act Novelle 2017, and this adjustment, Mr. Krainer, is saldenneut. [[Abg. Krainer: Federal Financial Framework Act is here today!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Mr State Secretary, please speak for Mr Krainer.]] In other words, the net financing requirement remains unchanged overall. Neither a euro nor a euro is spent less than decided by the previous government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] [[Abg. Krainer: I know what I'm saying! The Federal Financial Framework is on the agenda today!]] That means that no more euro will be spent. This legal budget provisional is the basis for the structure, the starting point for the double budget 2018/2019. On behalf of Mr Rossmann, whom I very much appreciate. [[Call the Pilz list "To and for Himself"?]] [[Abg. Noll: What about now, on or for yourself?]] [[Abg. Loacker:... the Minister can say something too!]] ==References====External links== ==References====External links== It would be inconceivable in the economy for restructuring – and we have a restructuring here in the transferred sense, because new ministries have been created – to make an annual financial statements for seven days and one for 358 days. That would be unthinkable in practice. That is to say, it is natural to draw up an annual financial statements for the whole of the year in terms of transparency. Nothing else has been done with this settlement provision, and this settlement provision in this own-initiative application ensures that the new structure will be retroactively adapted to the changed competence situation from 1.1.2018 onwards. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian These are not tax gifts if we take a reduction in VAT from 13 percent to 10 percent. At the time when, under your government saw, VAT was increased as a so-called counter-financing measure – in reality, it was an attack on tourism – the increase in the rate of VAT could not be passed on by the mass of tourism companies. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Was that not an ÖVP finance minister?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Plessl.]] If we now make a reduction of 13 percent to 10 percent, we will give a corresponding sign because tourism is one of the most central economic factors in Austria. We have a direct and indirect value added of EUR 56.5 billion, which is more than 16 percent of GDP. 490 000 workers are employed in hotels and gastronomy. This concerns families who need to feed their children and who, of course, now benefit from a secure job. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] By the way, Germany has a VAT rate of 7 percent in respect of these accommodation services, we now have 10 percent; before we had almost double the rate of Germany at 13 percent. [[Abg. Plessl: Ten and 13 is not double!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Seven times two is 14, which is the double of Germany!]] The reduction in VAT strengthens our entire economic location and is a significant improvement for the Austrian tourism industry. A final point on the House of Deputies, and on its statement that there is no plan in the government programme: Of course, there is a plan to have a very precise road map on tax reform. We have already taken a first step with the Family Bonus Plus. With the Family Bonus Plus, the tax rate is reduced as the first step towards 40 percent. In addition, we plan to completely re-create and re-establish the illegible income tax law. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is in the nature of the need for an EStG 2020 to have an appropriate legal basis. It will come into consideration next year and be decided in autumn law 2019 and will enter into force on 1.1.2020. This is also the case in the government programme, so I have said that in the Committee on Budgets. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11667	Thank you, Mr State Secretary. Mr Löger spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11691	Madam President. High house! Dear guests at the gallery! Dear Austrians! I am pleased to be able to make some clarification after so many calls today. I partly admire the Hellenic abilities of some Members, who today obviously already know exactly how the 2018/2019 budget is built up and what detailed measures are planned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] I confess, I hear calls there or there, even today from the opposition, but I can calm you, you're not exactly at the point in your Hellenic abilities. They'll be on the 21st. But there is a chance in the budget speech to really hear the truth in this area. They may be positively surprised to see that this government, as already shown in many points today, is in favour of implementing reliefs in the case of small incomes. We have also taken appropriate steps in the Council of Ministers today. In other words, in the area of unemployment insurance contributions, there is a reduction and in the area of the family bonus – which will be reviewed this week – especially in the case of small and medium-sized incomes, a milestone in the discharge for the Austrians. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I ask everyone to have this patience so that we can have a chance, then, if it really is about the budget of the next two years, to go over to the discussion of the points. Every unknowing call, which is mediatized in any form and does not correspond to the facts, has to comment now, I believe, not the quality that you yourself demand in this area. To the Committee on Budgets, and this is actually the reason why I am speaking today: on the one hand, I am grateful to my State Secretary, who represented me in this Committee on Budgets, as I hear, in very high quality and with great expertise. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Since my absence was addressed in many ways to this Committee on Budgets – I have had the honour and pleasure of being personally present at the first Committee on Budgets – was: I apologise once again – I have already done this personally with Mr Krainer when we met in Brussels – after my apologies, as I see, have generated your thanks in a different form. For clarification only: Today, apprentices have also been addressed several times as an important element in the sense of employment, as an important element in the Austrian economy. I had the honour, last week, on Wednesday, together with Mr. Landeshuptmann Kaiser in Velden – and yes, that is in Carinthia – to attend a big event. We had great joy that many apprentices from Carinthia were honored for the achievements they perform with their employers. They received prizes there, the state captain Kaiser and I were able to hand over together. We congratulated them, we also gave them joy and motivation. I think it was a good, important contribution from the Federal Government to show presence there. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Further calming: I took the opportunity to be present in Klagenfurt the next day in the financial administration of the region. We discussed important issues in the area of financial management with the managers. But then I also had a lot of time to discuss with the employees who are currently showing a great deal of commitment, especially at this stage – March, April – in which a large number of requests can be made in the Austrian financial administration. There were many topics that were placed with me, and I can assure everyone – even if it is somehow presented differently – that during my visit to Carinthia I did not meet any of my former colleagues from my previous work. I don't know where that rumor might come from. [[Abg. Haider: Krainer!]] In this sense, I am delighted when we are on 21st January. We hope to have the opportunity together to talk about a good budget 2018/2019, one that we can be proud of together – I assume. We are still working hard on it, and so I ask for understanding that it is today about other points. A final clarification also regarding the complexity: Yes, there is a delay, yes, which was also in the field of the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. In the end, if something does not work a hundred percent in the area, you have to stand straight for it, but there is also the clarification that the recalculation does not take place at 8. ==References== In this area too, there is at least a small improvement measure in terms of complexity. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11752	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11807	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, that's totally great if you're at an event for apprentices, I think it's perfectly fine, which was also on Wednesday and the committee was on Thursday. And I didn't expect you to sit in the coffee house on Thursday or go on vacation, but I'm already asking myself a question: If I have an evening appointment in Klagenfurt on Wednesday evening, I can be back in Vienna on Thursday at 10 a.m. Quite honestly, it was Members from Carinthia to the Committee on Budgets who were at the same event on the eve. It goes out, and how to do this is a question of dealing with the House. Secondly, No, we don't have Hellenic skills, so I don't at least, but we get information, directly or indirectly from the media, where we see what this federal government is planning. [[Abg. Haubner: We know that!]] [[Abg. Angerer: What does this have to do with the item on the agenda?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] For example, colleague Königsberger-Ludwig has learned that there are already letters from the Ministry of Justice that the Adult Protection Act will not enter into force until later. As an opposition, we will meet our task, show and point out what you are planning, what your policy is aimed at, and then it is not a positive surprise for us, but a great joy if you give in to this pressure and say: Okay, that was a mistake, we're going to introduce the Adult Protection Act and we're funding it too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Little: That wasn't a pressure!]] [[Abg. Steinacker: What kind of talk is that?]] [[Abg. Anger: On the matter, please!]] And all the more so, I say to you, we are pleased when you see the measures presented yesterday on the Board of Directors of the AMS, namely the reduction of apprenticeship measures, the older unemployed and the year of integration, until 21. Take it back on March. That would be a great joy to us, and it would also be something right if you did, because the way you're going here is the wrong way. [[Abg. Haubner: The socialist would be the right one!]] Consider that until 21. March and take back these cuts! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11922	Thank you. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11946	I would like to thank Mr Krainer and I declare it once again and last time in the context of a speech – perhaps we can clarify it bilaterally in order not to burden the House too much. [[Abg. Rossmann: I want to know!]] To give you another explanation: Yeah, I was in Velden on Wednesday night, that's also in Carinthia, but not Klagenfurt. The next day, on Thursday, at 9 a.m. – which was also planned in the long term – I took advantage of the opportunity to hold an employee and manager's information, discussion and exchange in the financial administration in Klagenfurt until 1 p.m., and that is, as I said, the background why I could not be in the committee at the same time. There were issues that needed to be clarified and discussed. In the further context, I can tell you today – I don't know what you believe and whether you believe only the media –: Give us time, 21. March will provide you with something you can believe in! [[Abg. Rosary: This will be a spring start!]] All you now question in this form will clearly be the basis for implementation. That is to say, we have never questioned that, even as regards measures in the direction of the Adult Protection Act and so on; that it may have been sent to the outside from discussions on internal technical refinancing, is a fact. From the very beginning, however, it has always been clearly formulated by all – from the chancellor about the Vice-Chancellor and all the ministries: This is an issue that we are implementing, because it is also so decided. This target group needs our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11996	Thank you, Minister. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 19 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. [[13:18:48]] 5. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the report of the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection on the activity of labour inspection in 2015 and 2016 (III-72/16, B.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12055	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12082	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Imagine a carpenter in the state of Salzburg, in Krimml! Hubert M. has about 20 employees and feels like a Cheshek of the nation. He is one of those concerned mentioned in the activity report. The Ministry's activity report states: In 2016, 46 000 workshops were visited and 15 000 additional construction sites were added. There were some 68,000 controls; 115,000 were found, almost every second, 45 percent were to be objected. It is then also a bit of scurry if, as the “Falter” has published, there was, as it were, an order to issue a command in this respect from the Ministry under Minister Stöger. The report has 74 pages, and from these 74 pages one now withdraws the greetings and the polite formulas in advance – these are four pages – then 70 pages remain, which was politely mentioned in these greetings. But then there is an unpublished greeting that you have issued; the unpublished greeting message is that you have issued a decree to invade, after which 38 percent of all objections have to be presented. They have, as it were, instructed the labour inspectors to punish the entrepreneurs in this country a bit, perhaps a bit too much of a punishment. Surprisingly, there is a visit to the Labour Inspectorate: advice instead of punishing. This, I think, is almost 40 percent the case at 38 percent. So by Ten catch four who are offended, which is no wonder either. This legal template for invading, because in principle every entrepreneur has to be a bad businessman, is somewhat bizarre, I think. I think if you light this up even more, then you come up with it: The report from page 47 lists – I quote – legislation which is “essential for workers’ protection”. It is said and writes 85 different regulations and regulations. 85! It's an easy thing for every work inspector that he finds something there. We know that, and you know that. At the same time, we have a minister for deregulation, who says: Everything has to be deregulated, and everything has to be debureautized. – Where do we come from, if we can clearly verify these rules, those 85 regulations, which are not even clear to the employer, let alone the workers, where do we get there if we do not even eliminate them? – To punish an easy game for the Ministry of Social Affairs, for the labour inspectors, even here! I'll tell you something. There are entrepreneurs who tell me – unfortunately the Minister of Finance has already left – if the auditor is there and the firm is in order, the auditor says: Well, I can't get anything together with you, I can't get any points! – They're fucking growths of our government! These are damned growths, too, in that we punish the companies in this country and bind them – but that shouldn't be it! Then something is added: that Salzburg's head of state says at once, that's all a scandal. – Now we just want to mention: Since when is the Minister of Finance of the ÖVP? Since when is the ÖVP in the government? Since when could you take all this aside and really advise instead of punish? – This policy of punishing entrepreneurs in this country must stop once and for all, that must be ended! [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] For this reason, we have not only started a request from you: What about the GPLA tests at the local health fund? How is this – and we have also asked the Minister of Finance, and we will know in three months – in the Ministry of Finance? Is there also a decree to invade what quota has to be fulfilled? We would like to know exactly that, because I believe that it is not the businessmen in this country who are punishing, but rather advises. And you have something else in mind.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12146	Mrs Bundesminister has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12168	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can make a few things clear. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, let me make this clear: What is the objective of worker protection? – The aim is to ensure that employees are safe and healthy. They are supposed to return home in the evening as healthy as they go into work in the morning, and finally retain their working capacity for a whole professional life. It is in both interest to work in the interests of both employers and employees, in the sense of success for a company. The report shows you very clearly what has been done here. In this context, please also allow me to thank all labour inspectors for their work! I think that consulting is an important criterion, and that is advice in the sense of prevention, you can believe this, Mr Deputies. And I mean, this decree would never have been under my leadership! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I immediately canceled it, and there will now be a new decree in which advice, prevention and no punishment will be provided. I also think that it is unreasonable for the labour inspectors to do such things, I tell you, because with this I create a pressure on the labour inspectors, which is simply not necessary because they do best work. They do best work, and that's why there's no need for such targets. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is no need for such targets. I was controller, as you probably know, as controller I work with key numbers, and key numbers should be positively formulated. That is why the consultation is very, very important to me and it will also be a target in the future. We will do the same monitoring so that it is clear how the labour inspectors work in the individual federal states. There will be no, I say, targeting how much they have to punish. I would ask you to take note of this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Prevention is simply better than, I say, showing and correcting deficiencies. So prevention is a preventive measure so that one can fix defects and not punish them. That is our objective, and it is now also being set up in accordance with our government programme. Of course, it will not, and this is the most important thing anyway, lead to a deterioration in the protection of workers, because the protection of workers is also an important criterion for me as a social minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12234	Thank you, Mrs. Minister. Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12258	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are talking about the report of the Labour Inspectorate. We have heard of my previous speaker and the Minister of the Interior about a so-called controversial decree. I'll give my previous speaker the right to: Of course, a plan economic punishment is something that is completely indisputable and rejected. The problem has arisen, thanks to Mrs. Minister, that she has immediately withdrawn this decision, because it has obviously been seen for years in a plan economic way: Where can you impose penalties? - That's bad! I would now like to refer briefly to the report on labour inspection, which shows a different picture as well. Not only is there something about the reorganisation of the labour inspection in it, but above all there is something in it that is a very important concern – and also linked to the website – that the advice is in the foreground, the advice especially in the case of health-damaging materials. We know that there are a lot of carcinogenic substances that are in circulation with which people come into contact today. Often it is not known to those concerned, it is not aware of the companies as a whole. I believe that it is the necessary task, in particular of the labour inspectorates, to intervene in consultation, since it is also really a matter of assistance. This is the first time that the Commission has been able to give its opinion and explain its views. This is one of the essentials, and it should also be stressed more strongly. I am also glad that we have this in the government programme just so that advice should be given to punishment, because one must be a common goal for all of us: We want to keep our employees healthy in working life as long as possible. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] No one has anything of sick people, at least the employers themselves, if they have good employees, so this is really a matter of heart to me. I do not want to say that this report, which has been written under Minister Stöger, is really a good and more clear one, that, above all, there has obviously been a rethinking in this direction at last and that one is trying to find out the real problems. That is why we will, of course, take note of this report. Again: I am glad that this controversial decree is taken back. I also hope that we will never fall back into the times of a planning economy in this Austria, because I believe that no one has been helped and that you cannot plan punishments. It is clear that there will continue to be punishments in the event of serious violations and crimes. That must also be the case, black sheep must always be separated. In this sense, I ask for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12313	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Muchitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12337	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that if one has now heard the first three speeches, one has in part been able to recognize different positions, but also a lot of common and positive ones. The fact is that this work report on labour inspection, as my colleague has already said, shows a lot, as far as the whole reorganisation is concerned – a reorganisation that makes work inspection in total in Austria, where we take a lot of positive work from 2015 and 2016 in planning, in the transfer of knowledge, in the overlapping work, in this reorganisation process, which is to continue by 2021. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank those Social Ministers of the Republic who have initiated this reorganisation: at Federal Minister Hundstorfer and at Federal Minister Stöger. Thank you very much for launching this process! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his work: 325 colleagues are working in the labour inspectorate and try to get this gap between checking, consulting and correcting defects every day. If Mr Schellhorn is told here that this is a shock and that punishment is a priority, I will only inform you four figures: In over 220 000 checks, over 45 percent - 115 000 - were found to be infrequent; in the event that many of these 115 000 infringements could be resolved by deliberations, and in the end only every 71. Violation has led to a punishment, and this proves that we have been there for a long time, that we are consulting first before we punish. If I may put it in other numbers: If, in the case of 1 000 infringements after consultation in the enterprises with the entrepreneurs, some who are uninstructable that workers protection is important to people in that country are imposed on 14, highly valued woman Federal Minister, then we are already there: We're already consulting before we punish. However, those who are not intelligible must also be able to impose appropriate penalties in the future, and they must also be imposed. On the last point, regarding the effort for reviews, the following debate was held: Both the Court of Auditors and the ILO strongly recommend Austria to use more staff in the labour inspection, simply because we are even more efficient. I think the horrors mentioned here with individual examples may be that way, but that does not take place in the broad arch. I think the numbers speak for themselves. That is why it would be important for all of us here in this House to agree: The protection of workers for 3,65 million workers in this country is a matter for all of us! And it must be our big goal to review and advise more particularly in these difficult changes in the work processes, where there are more and more carcinogenic substances and means, to ensure that workers' protection is and remains. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12391	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Hammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12416	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You have to be almost grateful to NEOS that we are discussing this report by the Labour Inspectorate here in plenary today – thank you! – and did not end it in committee. [[Abg. Scherak:... just be grateful!]] We have also held an intensive discussion there, but I believe that what has been discussed medially in recent days makes it simply necessary to put that into the right light. There was, and this has been expressed by this decree – it has already been quoted – in the past, of course, often from the social resort a false, partly completely entrepreneurship philosophy, which has been characterized there. This is also the result of this minimum case law – which must be broken down on the tongue – where this approach was chosen. I think it is necessary – and the Federal Minister has also chosen this way – to pull the emergency brake and change the philosophy there. It is important, and there is also the opportunity to really show it today. All of us – and this is important, Mr Muchich has also mentioned this – are committed to putting workers' protection in the foreground, but that must be reasonable, and there must be support. I think it is already important to have set up an institution such as the labour inspectorate accordingly. I should like to thank you for the work you have done: It is – the figures have already been mentioned – a variety, which is carried out on controls, on inspections and also on consultations. I think that's what the government programme is all about. We need a work inspector who really places the focus on worker protection, which is not plagued by excessive controls and often by rounding out formal provisions – my colleagues, who I believe are talking about, will also mention case examples – the businesses, but also the workers, but also works through service and advice on a real improvement of worker protection, because only this is useful in the end for the safety of workers, and this should be ensured. It is important – and this has already been said – that in the event of identified violations – and of course there is advice – that the abuse can be stopped – that it is also useful – and that it can only be punished at the end of the chain. The government programme clearly provides for the debureaucratisation of labour inspectorates and that the approach is focused on: It will focus instead of punishment. It is important – this is already an innovation, and I welcome it very much – to the ombudsman, in which the workers as well as the entrepreneurs have the opportunity to complain and to show abuses, because they can often be mediated there. Some federal states, for example Upper Austria, have also convened a round table on the subject of labour inspectorates at the initiative of the Economic Council of the Federal Republic of Germany, because they can simply talk out certain things that disturb entrepreneurs, but which also disturb workers' representatives, and can really choose a reasonable access. That's the right access. We are still discussing today a resolution tabled by the SPÖ, which is a herb-and-rove proposal and which really supports things of the false philosophy that we have chosen in the past. Of course, we reject this.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12452	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12477	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! The report of the Labour Inspectorate on activity in 2015 and 2016 shows the enormous importance of this institution for implementation on the one hand, but also for compliance with essential worker protection provisions on the other. Thus, over the last few years, i.e. 2015, and 2016, some 70,000 workplaces have been monitored annually and more than 380,000 working days have been checked by professionals. In almost half of these cases, infringements have been found, as has already been said – these are not punishments, but only found infringements. However, the labour inspection is not about punishing or disposing of any minor infringement, but rather, quite the contrary, to support colleagues, the local employees and, accordingly, to give advice on compliance with the standards instead of punishing them. It will only be punished if serious accusations occur. I have felt the representations of Mr Schellhorn so exaggerated, because in 2015, only 1,800 cases were punished by some 450 000 cases controlled, which is 0.4 percent. Hence: Advice instead of punishment. The Labour Inspectorate does not slave for businesses, but only looks at the fact that workers' protection standards are actually being observed. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] The obviously modern criticism of this regulatory flood – as it is called – in the field of work is therefore to be enjoyed with caution, especially if it comes not only from the government block, but also with the support of neoliberal pink protection aid and partly also in Plan A. [[New condolences to the list of mushrooms.]] Criticism of the labour inspectorate has also been a hot topic in the election campaign. [[Abg. Hammer: You were there once too!]] One thing is clear when it comes to the goal of enabling people to live a professional life that they can live without health problems and without late consequences, Mrs. Minister, if you say, as healthy as they go into work in the morning, they should also come home in the evening, then there is a need for clear rules and facilities such as the labour inspector, which is not only a paperworker but can ultimately also sanction when it comes to transgressions. This is, in principle, clear to all of us here. It should not even be considered by this government that, for example, we abolish alcohol checks on road transport or, under the title of red tape reduction, perhaps even completely abolish speed limits. No, we would really suffer ourselves because we are road users, and, and so. But when it comes to labour market policy, then the matter looks quite different again; then, as it stands in the coalition pact and as the government has done, we talk about – I quote – the research of workers' protection regulations in terms of their sense. When I read this, it is more like a thoughtful and planned balding, whose late sequences of course have to clean up the next government, which can also be seen as a black and blue tradition. However, these measures, which are being taken here, are more likely to be a threat than a support. Dear ÖVP, dear FPÖ! Before you decide to do so and think about how to limit the institution of the labour inspectorate and its powers, I would advise you to think once about the increase in occupational diseases of over 10 percent in recent years, which has also been discussed in the Committee. Today we still have measures such as the introduction of the 12-hour working day or the removal of non-smoker protection in the gastronomy on the agenda. Mr Fuchs has mentioned 490 000 jobs in the gastronomy, in which hotels are all affected by the withdrawal of non-smokers. [[Abg. Hammer: Go!]] [[Abg. Riddler: Such a fool!]] In other words, we are talking about a situation where we have a 10 percent increase in occupational diseases, and you are still thinking about how this group can be further burdened. If you are interested in making proper policy, we will be happy to help you. [[Abg. Hammer: I don't know!]] However, it would be necessary to allow work in the Committees once and not, as in the last Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, to postpone 100 percent of all applications to the Nirwana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12571	Mr Ragger has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12592	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since it's my virgin speech, I'm going to be allowed to expect no one to talk back. I may be able to give the colleague something out of practice because I have 20 to 40 procedures every year. [[Abg. Hammer: Yes, exactly!]] It is positive to note – as the Minister has out of service – that the number of accidents at work has fallen and that it has also been possible to reduce fatal accidents. But we should still look at how it is in practice. In fact, it is not only in the Ministry of Social Affairs, but also in other ministries that there are simply quotas. In principle, I am not at all a friend of any rate, whether it be a woman's quota or also a labour inspection rate, but in the final effect, only the efficiency is decisive. If you consider this, I can tell you a practical example. I had an investor who invested 30 million euros in Austria. He created a new production site, employed workers, and at the end of each month the labour inspectorate came together with the Ministry of Finance and imposed a penalty on him. Faith Do you really think it makes sense that the welcome policy is that entrepreneurship should be found to be beneficial? – I don't think so! On the contrary: It has received hundreds of thousands of euros of punishment, it has had to fight each time, and we have only achieved it through a truly intensive cooperation with the financial and labour inspectorates that it has been abandoned. Why? - Because there was a quota. You never said it officially, but behind the hand you said: We must come to control! It is not the job of labour inspection, it is not the task of a legislator to push entrepreneurs. I'm with you: Control yes, punishments as Ultima Ratio, never as the only means for how to become efficient! In conclusion, I am also in favour of Mr Schellhorn – which is also stated in the government programme – that we are creating a common development of the labour inspectorates, because: One explains it this way, and the other explains it quite differently. In the ministry, therefore, consideration should be given to how to establish a uniform line, a uniform interpretation of the interpretation of the laws by the labour inspectors. [[Abg. Hammer: Yes, exactly!]] However, one should not go here and at the end of the day punish the entrepreneur that he has ultimately failed to fulfil his legal duties. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12642	Mr Stöger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12664	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to the black and blue chaos! [[Abg. Rosary: The chaos will only come from 3 a.m.!]] Non-smoking: once Yes, once No. [[Subsequent calls and cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Hartz IV: once Yes, once No. Adult Protection Act: Once Yes, once No. Action 20 000: once Yes, once No. [[Abg. Belakovich: That has always been no!]] And what's going on? – The stakeholders do not know, and the members of the government are constantly contradicting. [[Abg. Rosary: Chaopolitik, there you were one of the first!]] Now it is true that you are relatively fast in two points, namely when it comes to turning into black and blue, changing posts. There's a quick way to get something together. [[Abg. Rosary: You learned this from the cast farmer!]] The second is the reduction of workers' protection and the deterioration of working conditions. [[Abg. Belakovich: How many illegals have you brought into the country?]] There, under the pretext of red tape, the working conditions are to be worsened. One wants one to demand not only the state of the art in the future, but the state of the practice. In the steam machine, the state of the art is ancient. I would like to thank all labour inspectors for ensuring the lives of people in Austria at the workplace. I ask the government parties: Ask your Minister Moser why he asked that there be such a decree! [[Abg. Belakovich: You cannot defend your decree! He was bad!]] He said that the labour inspectors should go where there is a risk, not to the office, but to the workshop. That's what it's all about. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] The motto: reduce regulation, reduce protection regulations, reduce Austria to minimum EU requirements – that is not possible. The Committee on Labour Protection should be reduced or abolished in the establishments. It is intended to rob work inspection of its control function – only advise, that is not possible. Therefore, the Court of Auditors has rightly called for an increase in staff and also for shorter review intervals. [[Abg. Belakovich: You have introduced the quota!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! They endanger health so that profits rise with a few. For example, the 12-hour day is required. This leads to fatigue, which increases the accident risk. [[Abg. Rädler: Go, stop!]] Austria will be the final light for non-smoker protection. This is all at the expense of the staff. [[Continued calls and cheerfulness at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Look at that, everybody who can count on: If you want to save 500 million euros in accident insurance – that is contained in your government agreement, agreement, or as you call it – this can only lead to a reduction in performance. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Your own failure is in the application!]] [[Abg. Rosary: A skillful cover-up of your inability!]] [[Abg. Wheeler: A washi-washer-approach! A pure desperation state!]] [[13:51]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13035	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13067	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewer! Today, in February 2018, we debate the labour inspection report of the years 2015 and 2016. This period is already history, just as the then Commissioner Stöger was out of service. But what remains to us is an immense decree. As Salzburger, I can quote our head of state Dr. Wilfried Haslauer here: Having a decree on how many checks have to end with complaints, no matter if there is any cause for concern, shows once again to what extent the many family-run small and medium-sized enterprises with obstacles and shocks have been occupied. That's simple and just a scandal. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We do not defend ourselves against reasonable rules, but they are clearly unnecessary. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Entrepreneurships are already paralysed by too many legislation, regulations, provisions and directives. We now have over 1,200 regulations, which are more legal regulations than Jus students need to learn during their studies. We have not only too many laws, but also laws that completely contradict each other. I can tell you one thing: Finding a floor covering that complies with hygiene and worker protection is really a challenge – to express it mildly once. I would ask you here, on behalf of all those who are suffering, to remove this contradiction. Labour inspectors should also be trained better. It would be good for labour inspectors to assess the same standards when participating in plant operations. Some inspectors have a lot of experience and bring the respective practice, others not again. I should like to give an example from a rural region: A work inspector has prevented the conversion for months in an existing guest house, which is still in a historic building, because of less centimetres of space. He has blocked six jobs. In my opinion, this is clearly negligent. Unfortunately, there are too many examples that are to the detriment of the economy. Entrepreneurs and their employees are affected by this. Labour inspectors should act as responsible partners of entrepreneurs. It is not the state that creates productive jobs, but it is we entrepreneurs who do this. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The aim of responsible and forward-looking policy is logically to support and not block the economy and the economic operators to whom we owe our prosperity. The policy task is to provide the right framework. The labour inspectorate has been in existence for 135 years, and in 1883 the corresponding law was passed unanimously. This shows how important the safety of workers was and still is today. Entrepreneurs are constantly investing in modernising the plants and ensuring that employees can work safely. It simply needs more understanding in the design of regulations and their controls. We would like to see a labour inspectorate who does not block businesses and workers through excessive controls and round-the-clock checks on formal provisions. which, through service and advice, contributes to a real improvement in the protection of workers. I am confident that our new Federal Minister will bring about the harmonisation of laws and regulations. Consulting instead of punishing is exactly the right approach that we need. As a representative of the economy, we are happy to be partners in this project.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13144	I call Mr Keck. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13165	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The activity report of the Labour Inspectorate 2015 and 2016 was indeed a sign of a large reorganisation process in the labour inspection. The project was launched in 2015 under then Federal Minister Alois Stöger with the aim of creating larger labour inspectorates in order to increase the efficiency of the organization with the available resources and reduce friction losses at the interfaces. However, Alois Stöger has also put many points into the Court of Auditors' report. One very important point was that the companies controlled by the labour inspectorate must be so-called risk companies, that is, that the labour inspectors should not only go to offices but really to the risk firms. It is always spoken of here of a decree with a requirement of 38 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, this decree of 38 percent is on the 11th. In January 2018, not by Mr. Stöger, the Federal Minister, for he was no longer in office. I think this decision to go to risk companies is also right, ladies and gentlemen. I have been a staff representative for almost 30 years in a very large company in Austria, in Voestalpine. We are implementing many measures with the labour inspectorates, with the workforce and with the company, and I do not know any case in which the company was punished by the labour inspectorates. Punishment is only possible if proposals or measures proposed by the labour inspectorate are not implemented and then penalties are made by the labour inspectorate. I can tell you: I am very glad that we have the labour inspectors, at the same time also the safety trustees with us in the company, who have made sure that this company has become a show company in terms of worker protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We work very, very well with the work inspectors. I would really like to thank the former Federal Minister Alois Stöger, but also the Sectionchefin and all labour inspectors and labour inspectors for the work they have done here in Austria for the employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13204	The next item is the speech by Mr Gödl. I would like to point out to Members that the red lamb is defective and we unfortunately have a problem there. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13226	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on the screens! It goes without saying that, of course, rules are there to ensure that they are complied with, and that there must also be control bodies in a functioning rule of law that verify compliance with these rules. I really want to quote the Labour Inspectorate's website as an example, maybe you can also call it by the way. There is a positive example every month when labour inspectors come to businesses in which they are currently consulting to resolve a dissatisfying state in the sense of worker protection under the motto of advice instead of punishing. There we are, I believe, all of us agree that this should be the objective of labour inspection as a whole. However, it is also time and again for businesses to refer to us politicians, where it looks different, simply rules against the interests of companies and the normal home mind has also been lost. A few days ago, “The Press” reported under the title “Work Inspector to the Short Leine” – admittedly very tearful. [[Keeping up a newspaper article]] There was also an example, which reads: “The work inspectors objected to the fact that the height of the room was reduced from 250 cm to 248 cm – by laying a wooden floor in an off-site of a company. The wood floor had to be gone.” [[Call the ÖVP:Bravo, Mr Stöger!]] This is a typical example of where the lack of home understanding leads to the company being given completely incomprehensible instructions. The following motto comes to light: Vurschrift is Vurschrift! It must be that way! It is indisputable that rules relating to the health and safety of individual workers and workers must be rigorously observed, but there, where the rules of procedure are concerned, where organisational details are also concerned, it can already be expected that a certain margin of discretion may come to the fore that the house mind also has room. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If, Mr Stöger, you, the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, – we have known you for a long time from the work in the Federal Council, and I very much appreciate you as a person and your attitude – say now that this government is putting everything to the point of worsening everything, I would like to remind you: ==References== Last year’s January, you gave a press conference, after which the headline in the media read “Work Inspectorate: [[Keeping up a newspaper article again]] Stäger wants to clean up now”. “Untimely procedures are to be deleted, individual laws revised.” – Yes, Federal Minister out of service, that is what we are doing now. [[Call:Beautiful words]] That's exactly what we're gonna do now. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would like to give you a small example of where the house mind has also missed. A company in my federal state has the headquarters in an old big villa. In this villa there is in the middle a access to the stairs, which only has on the right side a terrain so that you can not crash, but on the left side of the climb, two, three meters wide, no handrail. The labour inspector or security officer says that there should actually be a manual run. The monument protection says that the house must not be changed, you must not assemble a handrail there. So, now a public person acting on behalf of the enforcement of the laws comes and says, dear management, I recommend you, I keep you to write to your staff in the house, they like, if they are on this step and feel nausea, please go on the right side so that they can stop in time. I mean, it doesn't cost anything now, but I'm asking you: Do you know who most harms such a letter to the staff? – It hurts us here, because people ask us if we are down, that we regulate such a thing. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we understand this by red tape, that the house mind has a place. The bureaucracy is the biggest obstacle, the biggest enemy of the house mind. It is up to this Parliament to find, by the way, all of us and the government in particular, rules which are clear and understandable, and to use a margin of discretion in the execution, where the house mind has a place. Only then will the entrepreneurs and those who work, the workers, follow us and also the politics, I believe, be able to confront us with seriousness. This federal government, with this large majority in this Parliament, I hope, has done just that, in order to take back bureaucracy and give a little more space to the self-responsibilities and to the house mind.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13299	I call Mr Sieber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13321	Madam President. Minister! High house! Today, we are discussing the report of the Labour Inspectorate, and I would like to thank you very much for this report, because it shows very well that well-made controls, with regard to checks made are important for employees and employers and can often lead to the desired goal. Now I am probably like all of you that, when I am outside on business visits and talk to the entrepreneurs, employers and employers, I am very often confronted with complaints about absolutely superfluous control activities and also about controls that are very little valued. This is in particular rejected by the entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurships wish for themselves and we wish for a labour inspectorate that is not based on overrun controls and round-trips on formal provisions that are not harassment to businesses and workers, but that service and advice lead to a real improvement in the protection of workers. That would be the aim of these controls. Now the regret and the complaints that one receives, but not only on this labour inspectorate, are addressed to the mass, the sum of the controls under which the farms suffer. I have now allowed myself to sum up what controls a food-processing, a meat-processing plant gets over the course of a year. [[Abg. Schellhorn: The farmers...!]] This begins first with an internal quality management, which is naturally carried out. Afterwards, the review of the animal identification, after which the veterinary life review, after the killing of course also comes to the point of death, then there is a use of the classification service. Of course, it is also absolutely necessary for the carcass to have a bacterial examination plus a residue check, then the post-checks are coming, these are the meat labelling systems that also need to be checked. Since we have a wonderful AMA seal in Austria, of course the criteria must also be controlled accordingly according to the AMA seal. Following this, the slaughter premium controls take place, and if the animal was now a bio animal – and fortunately we have an increasing share of organic farming in Austria – of course, the control body for organic farming must also control the corresponding documentation. In Vorarlberg we have a wonderful Ländle quality seal, and of course we also need to review and control the criteria in this regard. Of course, it is also necessary to check whether all product criteria of this Landle quality seal are complied with. There is still food control, the product declaration speaks, and there are still labour-law controls to do so. The conduct of documentaries of traceability and the completion of data collection records of Statistics Austria can only be mentioned by the way. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Thank you, ÖVP!]] It is also not entirely irrelevant that the inspections of the plant are carried out, which also take some time. Then comes the whole wide field of fire protection. I want to save you, list what needs to be checked. Then there is – and thus we come back to our report – the whole subject of worker protection, where the labour inspectorate is doing excellent work, in the sense of the workers and employers, at least mostly. Ladies and gentlemen! This list is absolutely incomplete, and if I had known that the red light is not working today, I would have completed the list. They see the density of the checks that our government, our employees and businesses have to fight with. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] Large enterprises hold a staff for these inspections, in SMEs and in small businesses, this work remains dependent on the operator or the owner of the company. It's just not reasonable. This government, ladies and gentlemen, has taken place in order to discharge businesses. It is not a question of replacing necessary checks and checks, but we all know that there are a wide variety of double-tracks. This is to be eliminated, and some inspections are also obsolete. We therefore believe that a lot of relief is possible in this regard. I hope no, I am convinced that this government will do this with a lot of enthusiasm. We're on her side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13377	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, even if the light is not working, you have the watch running, so that this may not be a problem either. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of this report III-72 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament on the attack on the health and safety of workers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[14:10:47]] 6. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Alfred J. Noll, colleagues concerning a federal law, with which the law of 27 October 1885 was applied. (80/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13449	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I now give the floor to the applicant, Mr Dr. Noll. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13476	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! That's short, but I hope we can go on with a little bit of unanimity here. You know that Austrian court fees cover more than what justice needs in total money. We finance justice with 111 percent extravagantly. All those concerned, judges, lawyers, party representatives, including legal associations are clear about this and have confidence that we will collect too much of the fees that our court fees have gained, in particular, almost prohibitive character in the appeal proceedings. A first step for all parties involved to do something would be that those parts of the dispute, which are legally comparable during the first proceedings, are similar to those they have been decades ago, and the same as it is still in the precarious comparison today, will be 50 percent of the paid flat rate. There is the announcement that justice is to be saved. The additional burden and additional burden of justice for many years have been that the procedures are becoming more complex, intensive and extensive. We must and, I believe, in a reasonable way offer both parties and party representatives an opportunity to ensure fewer procedures, especially since every practitioner and every practitioner knows of the experience, one can compare in court proceedings in the first trial, any further comparative attempt almost always fails at the resulting costs. I believe that we should discuss this in the Committee on Justice, and hope that we will achieve something cross-group, which serves all those involved in the judicial system and, in the future, may also be a reason for a savings in the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13514	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Mr Fürlinger, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13538	High Bureau! Mr Noll! Thank you, of course, for your suggestion! I think it is incontrovertible that the suggestion regarding court fees is a correct one. The Government, which has written in its programme in many areas of discharge and deregulation, These points are also included in the programme, in particular those which you have brought in here today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] I need to make a small correction for the public. They're talking about overfinancing justice. This is only right to the point where the famous execution of the sentence with all its consequences, including health issues in the implementation of measures, is included, which is why, of course, the court fees do not give full funding to the justice system. However, I also say that the budgetary issue, particularly with regard to justice, cannot be the final one. We must be aware that justice is an essential task of the state, which cannot only be made dependent on self-financing, economics. It is one of the powers of this state. Therefore, there will certainly have to be wide-ranging debates, not only in connection with fees, but also in relation to where justice is to be included – is it to be included in the field of security? – so that we can take this state core task seriously and also fulfil it. However, I would like to make a small suggestion on this request. I don't think it makes sense to get a point out of this fee system now, to pick out, to deal with it and then to say, when we've cut it off, everything's good. There is, of course, a whole series of exemptions, but also burdens, which are no longer timely and no longer appropriate to the new nature of the procedures, in this fee law, which is of course also a non-complicated regulation for all those concerned. I encourage this and I look forward to a wide-ranging discussion in the Committee on Justice not only on this one point, but also on many others in the Fees Act. This government stands for discharge, it will also be able to do so in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13589	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Wittmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13614	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can already get rid of the request and have not fully understood what my previous speaker said, because: Court fees are intended to ensure that the services of the State are paid by the applicants – benefits provided in court and not in criminal proceedings. There has been 110 million euros in these fees for ten years. If you keep this up for ten years, you probably have to talk about a tax and can no longer talk about a fee. A fee would mean that only those benefits of the State, which are also provided by the State, could be paid by a tax, while the entire judicial system could be financed. However, it is not possible to use court fees intended to pay for the State's services to be paid in court for stopping other holes. The first lawyer who so to speak brings this to the Constitutional Court, namely the duration of winning over these fees, clearly shows that we are on our way towards tax. There are certain tolerance limits that the Constitutional Court recognises, but they are about five years old. Everything about it. So it would probably mean that this is a tax and no longer a fee. You just have to understand what you want to do with it. The first step, however, is to give discharge in the first instance and to encourage it not to take advantage of the State's services at all, but to do so in advance, I think it is right and we will support them.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13650	Thank you, honourable Member. I now give the floor to Mr Tschank. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13674	Madam President. Dear Federal Government! – There's no one there anymore. [[towards the government bank looking]] – Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! I would like to say, of course, that access to justice should be improved, and it should be faster, more easily and cost-effectively for all. I can definitely represent this from the point of view of a lawyer. We have always demanded this from the FPÖ in the past, and it is above all also a major concern of the Austrian Federal Government. If you look at what is contained in the government programme, you will find that we have decreed the reduction and cover of court fees, including disputed surcharges for civil proceedings. That is the stated objective of the Austrian Federal Government, we want to pursue and follow this path. The Pilz List's initiative therefore ultimately takes over, above all, the position of the government programme. I am very pleased, of course, and the Austrian Federal Government is very pleased that you will ultimately support our concerns and also want to implement them together with us. However, it is not right here – the colleague of the ÖVP has already mentioned it – to take out individual measures, but to work on an overall solution, to develop a so-called overall concept. The basis for such an overall approach could be in particular to examine financial viability. In other words, the cost of civil proceedings must be covered in the Republic. Austria's competitiveness must be a priority. Access to justice – above all for more socially weak – should be improved and ensured. The cover of the flat-rate fees is to be and must be introduced. On all these points, we will certainly find ourselves, Mr Noll. I noticed something about the reasons for your request. Imitate in the statement of reasons They appear to have legal fees with legal fees. I don't know if you noticed. In principle, of course, these two materials have nothing to do with each other. I can assure you, however, that the Austrian Federal Government has also recognised the need for action here and will also act on the subject of legal fees and will carry out an evaluation of the right to charge – with the aim of strengthening legal certainty, avoiding circumvention structures and in the end even abolishing the obligation to pay certain legal transactions, where they are simply no longer in time. At this point, it is especially important to thank my colleague, Mr Schrangl, very much because last year he negotiated the subject of fees for housing rents and was able to reduce them. Thank you at this point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My recommendation: If we sit together, we will work on a common solution in the Committee! I'm looking forward to it. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13729	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Mrs Griss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13753	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a European champion, if not even a world champion in court fees. Years ago, we surveyed in the European Union's High Courts' Network the amount of court fees in the individual European states. I can still remember this: When we compared the results to each other, my colleagues from other EU Member States were amazed, they were away that fees – flat rate fees, court fees – would be charged at such an amount as is the case in Austria. The figures have already been mentioned. 111 percent pay the court fees, 80 percent if you add to the penalty. That's really an absolute record. Now you could say yes: Yeah, why not? To a large extent, we finance the judicial system, even finance the execution to a large extent. [[Abg. Rosary: Procedural aid!]] – Procedural assistance, which is true, is for the poor who have very little. Whoever, however, – and it is precisely a concern of this government to relieve the smaller and medium-sized incomes – has a medium or smaller income – that is, not a very small income, he pays the full fees and that hits this hardness. Why is that so negative? – There are three reasons for this. The first reason is European law. Fees should always reflect the effort associated with the performance. If someone attacks the Austrian basic book registration fee at the ECJ, then we have a problem, because it is not compatible with the effort. That is to say, our current solution is a question of European law. The second essential reason is that the high court fees are an opportunity to blackmail a comparison, or are also a reason for someone to take proceedings from others. Reasons cannot continue because the danger is so great that it is ultimately burdened with such high charges. The third essential reason is access to justice. How many times do I hear from people that they cannot afford to bring an action because they would then have to pay flat-rate fees in the amount and the amount without knowing how the procedure will proceed. They can't afford that. That means that this request is no longer a first modest step. What is necessary is to put the court fees to the test overall and, above all, to introduce a cover for court fees, as well as for the attorney's costs. It is really incredible, for example, that in the third instance we calculate 2.4 percent of the revision interest plus the fixed amount, even for amounts that are very, very high, million euros. That is, the federal government is taking a lot of action here. And – I've experienced this a few times – what's going to happen to the revision advertiser? – A three-liner is given to the revision competitioner: The revision was to be rejected because there was no significant legal question to be resolved. So that's something people don't understand. That is why, I believe, it must be a concern of all of us to come to a solution to court fees, which are Europe-wide, which does not allow for extortion and which guarantees access to justice. This is due to a complete revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13793	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 80/A to the Committee on Justice. [[14:26:25]] 7. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Peter Kolba, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law that amends the rule of law, the Civil Procedure, the Law on Court Fees, the Law on the Law on Consumer Protection, the Federal Law against Unfair Competition and the Law on Employment and Social Courts (Law on Association Models of Complaints) (82/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13832	We're coming to the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I give the floor to the applicant, Mr Kolba. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13859	Madam President. Unfortunately, no one is there from the Federal Government, and it is especially - - - you do not need to call in, because I will praise your Minister, Mrs Hartinger-Klein, and therefore you do not need to call in, but that is what you can do to her. [[Abg. Rosary: At first reading there is never anyone there!]] [[Abg. Rosary: That's what we're going to assume!]] [[Cheerfulness and detonatative applause by FPÖ representatives]] And that's why I'm going to praise her, because she had the forehead that she has brought the Chamber of Workers or the President of the Chamber of Workers to agree – after a long, long period of reflection – that the Consumer Information Association may take action against the VW group with collective complaints. That's good. [[Abg. Rosary: Everything in this government is good! That's nothing new!]] The only problem that exists is that the claims of the injured in Austria will be delayed in mid-September of this year. My scepticism begins, because within six months a collective complaint under the existing law – i.e. a collective complaint under Austrian law, as we invented in the VKI about 15 years ago – to organize for 340,000 victims in Austria, I think it is logistically impossible. From my experience, I have therefore also submitted an initiative proposal for an association sample determination action in the field of consumer protection. This draft, which I must admit, is based on Mr Jarolim's draft, but at a core he is different: It is not the continuation of a group complaint, but my draft is based on what is law and practice in the Netherlands, and on what is discussed in Germany as a model-setting action. What are the benefits of this model? – First of all: According to the Consumer Protection Act, but also ad hoc non-profit-making legal entities, who are entitled to the right to collect damages directly and without having to collect them, the injured person in the Vienna Commercial Court – and only there – can sue with this finding. This makes sense because the Commercial Court of Vienna has over years experience in the processing of large mass proceedings. That's why it's the right court to bring in. This finding is based on the case-law of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Communities on the clarification of legal and action matters relevant to all the victims of the group. The introduction of the complaint – and this is a very essential effect – inhibits all Austrian victims – I have already said that it is 340 000 people – the limitation of these claims for the duration of this procedure. And because this limitation is inhibited, we have another effect, namely that the defendant cannot actually benefit from the delay in the procedure. Therefore, we have an incentive system that can and will be negotiated very quickly for comparison. Such a comparison should be designed as an opt-out comparison from my point of view – and with this the Dutch have truly had good experience. That is to say, the comparison achieved is published and the injured can then, within a certain period, declare that they are depreciated from the comparison. Whoever does not do this – and the experience in the Netherlands shows that this is the great, great majority – is covered by the effects, gets a part of his damage replaced, but then can no longer go further against the harmor and demand more. What are the benefits of this procedure? First of all, there is a concentration of proceedings in a specialised court. Secondly, there is the fact that we restrict it to associations or ad hoc non-profit legal entities, professional complainants, who can also take on professional support from a process financier for carrying the cost risk. Furthermore, there are those who do not have to resign or register their claims and, in particular, do not have to take on any cost risks, and the limitation of claims for all those affected is inhibited. I believe those who promise Austrian victims in spring 2018 will do everything they can to take action against the VW Group, which has damaged authorities and consumers through commercial fraud, and order the VKI to file appropriate collective complaints, must also create the conditions for this to work. In my opinion, it is totally impossible to organise this by September 2018 with the collective complaint under Austrian law. That is why I call on you, but in particular the government coalition, to join us in quickly launching this Association Models Act. This can, if we treat it properly and advise it, until 1. June 1st, June 1st, June 1st, June 1st, June 1st, June 1st, June 1st, June 1st, June 1st, June 1st, June 1st, June 1st, June 1st, June 1st, June 1st, June 1st, June 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, And this is the case for the VKI that before September 2018, before the limitation of these claims, it will bring the relevant action before the Commercial Court. I believe that it is in the interests of the government that we make available instruments that enable promises made by ministers to be implemented. I therefore ask for your consent to this law or, above all, for a joint consultation within the Committee and, subsequently, for a timely decision to be taken in order to be effective against the VW Group. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13931	Thank you very much, honourable Member. That was almost a point landing. You have used up the speaking time of your group. I now give the floor to Mr Kühberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13958	Madam President. High house! Dear Austrians! On Amendment 82/A by Mr Dr Peter Kolba, Professor Alfred Noll, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the so-called "Verbandspatternstättungslaggesetz", or better known as a collective complaint, I would like to state the following: The new group complaint promises simplifications. But the opposite is the case. It would even lead to more red tape in the courts and in the establishments. Thus, the new procedural models are known to be much more complicated than the existing possibilities of the collection of Austrian embossing and also more lengthy in their implementation. In the current government programme “Together. For our Austria.” the introduction of such collective complaints is not foreseen. However, the European Commission has already announced its intention to include elements of collective legal protection in the revision of the Injunctions Directive. Details have not yet been announced, but the proposal has been made for the 11th. April 2018 announced – in other words, in the near future. So it's clear to us: The debate at the European level must first be awaiting, a single entry of Austria is not a target. However, I note that, in principle, we are not opposed to new meaningful regulations or additions and extensions of the existing system of Austrian embassies. The approach is as follows: Material rights granted to consumers and entrepreneurs must be equivalent and implemented in a procedural manner. We want the same rules for everyone. There must be no preference for groups vis-à-vis individuals or individual defendants. In our view, any potential claimant must have the opportunity to participate actively and self-determinedly in a process. This would hardly be guaranteed in the case of collective complaints. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Collecting complaints also pose the risk of one-sided privilege of a party to the proceedings – in the case of costs, for example, or in the case of evidence. We also want to ensure that there are no American conditions in Austria. This is particularly the case in collective complaints against companies and craft firms for so long through criminal threat and by building up media pressure, until voluntary solutions are found. We don't need that in Austria. Therefore, collective complaints also have significant potential for abuse. In America, it is a calcule to publicly accuse companies. This means – and this has already led to – that the frequent collective complaints and the legal uncertainty associated with them are a disadvantage to America. Dr. Kolba, I don't want to know what would happen if this lamp went out over in the Senate – stop, now she goes again! – There would be a complaint! [[on the lamp at the speaker’s coil significant]] [[on the lamp indicating and knocking, on which it suddenly shines]] [[Rejoicing]] I do not want to be the company in America that produced it, because there would be a collective complaint, but in the Austrian Parliament this is not a problem, since it repairs the honourable Member. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We need to look carefully at the fact that we do not get American states in Austria. [[Abg. Kolba:... VW, great!]] Dr. Kolba – there You just called in and so the television viewers hear it – you admitted yourself in an interview: Well, there will be American conditions, and some law firms will get healthy. [[Abg. Kolba: But not with my trial!]] But we don't want that in Austria! [[Abg. Kolba: You have not even read the proposal!]] In Austria, we want to take this into account so that we do not create the same penalties and damages payments in millions and our own complaints industry as in America. We really don't need that in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kolba: If you agree to my request, we will not get it!]] Mr. Dr. Kolba, it should really be about the actual damage that has been done, and it must be at the heart of the matter. A new system would allow, as has been said, a certain - and I am afraid of - Americanization with us, where probably there are still process financiers behind the lawyers, who then firmly co-cash. However, we will continue to discuss this issue – and I am looking forward to it – in our judicial committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14087	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Thanks also for bringing the lamperl back to flashing and lighting. The next item is the report by Mr Vogl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14112	As SPÖ Consumer Protection Speaker, I am of course pleased about this initiative and that we are discussing the issue of consumer protection in this House for the first time. I am therefore pleased because I fear that we will not do it very often. It is already on the government program “Together. for our Austria.”; I may refer to page 120 there. [[Keeping a specimen in height and pointing to the corresponding section]] This is the area that has come into your mind for consumer protection, and this is mainly about governing the Consumer Information Association. Otherwise, there is nothing in there to protect consumers. Unfortunately, my colleague Peter Wurmis is not there now. I have experienced him as a very committed fighter for consumer rights in the last legislative period, and I can only assure him from this point of view: We will support him in his struggle for the rights of consumers in this country against this Gallic village of the consumer protectionists, here on the right of me.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14148	Thank you very much, honourable Member. The next item is the speech by Mrs Prince. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14180	Madam President. High house! Dear Seers and Seers! The present proposal for an initiative to reform and improve collective legal protection is an important and constructive discussion. Strengthening consumer interests is always an important concern for the Freedom Party. We have an economic where, in the context of standardised mass transactions, illegal behaviour sometimes results in similar damage to a large number of consumers. If the disadvantage suffered is very low in individual cases, the claims for damages or reimbursement are often not individually pursued by the persons concerned. On the one hand, the necessary effort is delayed in a timely and financial way. One is inhibited from going to court, or the effort seems to be not as proportionate in relation to the damage suffered. Consumers are putting their claims under the table, and a completely illegal behaviour of companies is not sanctioned. The trader who acts unlawfully has a competitive advantage over the person who behaves lawfully. This is quite a dissatisfying situation, and there has therefore been a discussion at national and international level for years on how to strengthen collective legal protection. There is also a recommendation from the European Commission from 2013, in which common principles for collective injunction and compensation procedures have been developed, and in Germany too, there is now a parallel discussion on the introduction of a model fixing action. Effective enforcement requires effective instruments of civil procedural legal protection. They must be designed in such a way that they are actually used by consumers. A simplified access to court proceedings serves not only consumer protection, but also the general public, which has an interest in a functioning and safe legal system. A sample determination procedure would be complementary to existing legal possibilities. Consumer associations and also legally established legal entities – but there is certainly still a need to discuss how this is really designed – can, in place of this action, but in favour of the injured, determine the existence of central conditions for the existence of a claim. Based on this, the enforcement of the individual's individual claim is then considerably simplified, as the facts and the legal question have already been clarified. Thus, by strengthening collective legal protection, it not only strengthens consumer protection and facilitates access to justice, but also serves the economy of proceedings, because it makes sense for a case-law and the same legal issue to be decided by a judge rather than by a larger number of judges who may then adopt divergent judgments. This creates legal uncertainty. In addition, of course, a discharge of the courts is also to be effected. All these advantages justify, in any case, a discussion on the extension of collective legal protection. However, what we still have to say here and what the colleague of the ÖVP has also stressed: We must not forget or ignore the interests of entrepreneurs. In fact, collective legal protection can also lead to greater legal certainty for companies if they are not faced with a large number of different procedures, but a dispute is assessed and decided on in a uniform manner. However, what must not be – and I am doing so very briefly now that it has already been addressed – is that we introduce American conditions. The draft Pilz list, admittedly, is strictly demarcated from these American collective complaints. It really needs to be remembered that the trip does not take This direction goes, because there is no uncertainty about the economy in our interests and not in the interests of consumers. On the one hand, the question is that the legitimate interests of consumers are strengthened by simple and fair enforcement. On the other hand, we need to be very careful and careful to ensure that the situation of companies is not deteriorated. We will then discuss everything in the Committee on Justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14234	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 82/A to the Committee on Justice. [[14:47:14]] 8. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Johannes Jarolim, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law that amends the rule of law, the Civil Procedures Code, the Law on Court Fees, the Law on Consumer Protection, the Federal Law against Unfair Competition and the Labour and Social Court Law (Group Procedure Act) (96/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14273	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Jarolim. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14301	Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to congratulate Mr Prince on her speech. I think that has rarely been so profoundly expressed. But it is now the fact that we have been conducting the discussion on the collective action, model actions, to enforce general claims for a long time. With access, as Mr Prince has now explained to him, I think we would be relatively quick to find an objective solution, which is ultimately the same. [[In the case of the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the Commission of the European Communities and the European Economic ……]] – The applause is dedicated to Mr Prince. [[The speaker himself also gives condolences.]] As a matter of principle, we experience it again and again, most recently in the case of VW, that we have a number of legal issues that many meet. This does not always have to be the biggest damage, it can also be small damage, in which one has a obstacle which one is rather reluctant to skip, because of the cost risks behind it. Such a consideration, of course, often prefers the black sheep in industry, and therefore I do not understand the ÖVP at all, which has been walling here for years, because precisely those industrial companies that do not carry people around in the nose who do not use such practices would benefit from the fact that there is an effective means against these black sheep. That is what Mr Kolba has already said. If we bring together here an alliance of reason, then we should really take one step further. I can't hear these unscrupulous clues – I don't know who's talking about that – on American conditions anymore. Ladies and gentlemen. It is up to us to legislate the laws in such a way that we do not have American conditions, nor does anyone want them here in the country. What we don't want, however, is that if there are those who always take place, they are any address sales companies or companies that simply bluff, really knowing, producing – the value of the single piece is 10 euros, but that goes to a very, very wide market that buys millions – and so calculate, it doesn't happen to them anyway. Who of us really wants that? That's why you can really just invite me for a longer period of time, but without always saying yes we'll discuss, we'll discuss it and we'll postpone finding a really efficient solution here. The judicial association and also the judges themselves call for such concentration mechanisms by which one can bring proceedings together, because this would, of course, also mean relief for the judges in the proceedings. [[Abg. Kassinger: concentration is a dangerous word!]] That is why I would think that you might really be taking a step back from the obscurity we had in the past. My colleague, Prince, really offered, that is what I must say, a dreamy presentation of the legal question. Let us take it once again and see if we can't really jump over our own shadows and, above all, can free ourselves from prejudices like those of the American conditions, of which, if you ask them, nobody knows what they mean. Once you know it, you can also prevent the fearsome from taking legal action. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14349	Thank you very much, honourable Member. The next item is the speech by Mr Schnoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14374	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On this issue, it is clear to us that, of course, everyone must have the opportunity to enforce his right in court. This is quite clear once; there is also a commitment in the government programme. From my point of view, it is not, in part, relevant to the efficient and rapid design of the procedures that we have in part in Austria. In particular, we are talking about large-scale procedures in which we need a shorter period of procedure. This could be achieved, above all, and this would be the interesting thing, which has also been mentioned in the Government's programme, with electronic record management. I can remind myself: I did my court practice at the public prosecutor's office in Wiener Neustadt and I pushed these files through the court with the Kaufwagerl. These are huge mountains, which also means that the procedures are towed, and there is also a possibility of achieving efficiency. The public prosecutors are, of course, burdened with these large amounts of data, and the IT-supported processing and analysis of such data could lead to significant accelerations, particularly in the investigation process. An important point is also the field of experts and interpreters, which also contributes a large part to the fact that the procedures are very extensive and take a long time. I think it's a good thing to do if you finally get a reform on the way. An interesting point is also the introduction of a new economic jurisdiction which we have set out in the government programme under the primacy of procedural acceleration and process economy, in particular in order to strengthen the economic location, in line with the concept of antitrust jurisdiction and the renewal of the setting of time limits. The point of reducing and covering court fees has also been raised. I would like to say something to the request: We must not forget to think about the European aspect. We have a European internal market, which also calls for European law enforcement. The European Commission has, as the colleague has already mentioned, announced that, in the context of the revision of the Injunctions Directive, it would also like to include elements of collective legal protection. In other words, we do well to do so if we do not dare to go alone, but seek a pan-European solution. This is particularly true in view of the fact that, as Mr. Dr. Kolba has already mentioned, in Austria we have a legal instrument with the collective complaint of Austrian embossing, to which others envy us. And there is an expert group in the Ministry of Justice, which has been assigned to further development. [[Abg. Kolba: The working group does not meet!]] For us, it is clear that we want the same rules of play for all, no preference for groups vis-à-vis individuals, protection of entrepreneurs from media pre-conceptions and, above all, no payment of penalties and damages in millions. I do not want to try the example of American relations now, but what is going on there is partly really scurry. An example just: A cleaning company has been sued for a transfer of pants to 67 million euros. This is just an expression of how bizarre the legal system there is. There is even a separate award for bizarre complaints that call itself Stella-Award. We do well to take care of it. Dr. Jarolim, you're right. We ourselves have the power not to let these American conditions come back to us. It cannot be our goal that through a reform some law firms or process financiers earn a golden nose. Last point: As far as the efficiency of the procedures is concerned, it must not be forgotten that it is not only a matter of law and action, but that it is partly only a fraction of the legal issues to be clarified in group proceedings. That is to say, it is quite questionable whether, in the course of these collective complaints, it will really be more efficient. In this sense: We want to give everyone access to the right, regardless of whether he is capable or not, no matter where he comes from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14410	Thank you very much. The next item is Mrs Friedl's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14435	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! First of all, I would like to stress that the VKI, which is the association for consumer information, is leading when it comes to conducting association complaints and model processes. It is an extremely important partner for consumers to represent their interests. The VKI conducts great legal advice and gives people safety above all. High house! The government programme on page 120 states that the Chamber of Labour should be pushed out of the VKI as an ordinary member and that instead only the Ministry of Consumer Protection and Justice via the VKI I'm not sure what to do with it. An approach that this government is showing, I reject, because it cannot be that the government wants to tear itself under the nail of the independent VKI. The government also has in mind the interests of the economy and not the interests of the people. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now to the group procedure: It is about the fact that, in mass damage cases such as the famous VW exhaust scandal, there are many individual victims who face a powerful harm and who, of course, all have the same problem. Many of the people concerned are afraid of the way in court because of the high cost, because the current legal situation only allows them to complain individually. Risks such as costs, expensive opinions and the like naturally hinder many or make many uncertain, and then they do not go to court and complain. The issue of collective complaint is a subject that we have been running for a long time, but, ladies and gentlemen, it has failed to date on the veto of the ÖVP, and thus you are responsible that many people have been given the opportunity to come to their right. [[towards ÖVP]] Why is this draft of the SPÖ so important now? – Because this group procedure law only brings benefits. Consumers will be helped to their right, the process risk will be distributed from one to several complainants. Of course, even minor damage can be more easily charged, but entrepreneurs should also be protected from unfair methods of their competitors. And last, but not least, this also relieves justice. By introducing the Group Procedure Act, model processes can be conducted without losing money. This is a big step towards legal certainty in court for our consumers. I believe that this is a very good legislative proposal, ladies and gentlemen, who hopefully will receive great approval in this House, for it is time to finally decide on this law, which costs the state nothing from which people only benefit. It would be high time.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14486	I should like to ask Mr Ragger: You now have 2 minutes left to start your speech. [[Abg. Ragger: I'm done in a minute and a half!]] - In one and a half minutes. Then I say thank you very much. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14518	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is a weighing process, and we will have to look at it very carefully in the Committee. On the one hand, I am aware of the practice: If we continue to look at the provisions in § 187 ZPO, it is clear that mergers of individual parties can always take place on the complaining or accused side. But, on the other hand, it is also a great risk to try out mass procedures that ultimately lead to an uneven approach or in the field of the Court of Justice having uneven access. That is why I am absolutely convinced that we need this group procedure, but we also need to look at it in detail in the regulatory content, so that there can be no overarching, unilateral clarification of the more powerful who are now taking place in a courtroom. Therefore: We have set up many instruments, and we have already talked about the court proceedings before, namely the court fees. We're changing into Austria now has a slight situation where the stronger economic activity and the weaker economy is being affected, because it no longer has the financial resources to do so. I therefore believe that this group procedure is a necessary instrument. However, as it will be legally, in terms of content, I believe that it should be discussed intensively in the Committee and, accordingly, a legal system should be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14554	Thank you. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 96/A to the Committee on Justice. [[15:00:27]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, MSc, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection on the ban on smoking in gastronomy (350/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14596	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 350/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14813	I should like to ask Mrs Rendi-Wagner as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling under § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes, give the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14836	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We write the year 2018. Why do I say that? – Because it is a shame that we need to discuss this issue again and still again this year. It is also a shame that, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP, in 2018, you will reverse a law that we have already adopted here in the House in 2015 for good reason and with all scientific evidence. It is also a shame that in 2018 we still have to fight for this self-evidentness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: Reasonable is that!]] [[Abg. Rädler: Then you do something wrong!]] Your plan to lift the ban on smoking in the gastronomy throws us back years, if not decades in non-smoker protection and health policy and makes Austria once again an ashtray in Europe. As you know, it was my predecessor, Minister of Health Sabine Oberhauser, whose day of death, by the way, was for the first time a few days ago, who worked out and negotiated this law here in the High House in 2015 together with the then ÖVP Minister of Economic Affairs Reinhold Mitterlehner. It wasn't easy. The way there was long and difficult. Many discussions, long negotiations with hosts, hoteliers, staff members of the gastronomy preceded this law. In the end, however, it was a compromise with the ÖVP, the law only after a three-year transitional period. May 2018 to enter into force; and this very compromise, ladies and gentlemen, has led us to stand today where we stand, namely that the ban on smoking is tilted before it could even enter into force. But not only that: Fear of reactions, opinions from the population, organizations, experts, the Federal Government, the ban on smoking without any review and for an indefinite period of time – say forever. Instead, put in a so-called initiative proposal. In this way you take not only the Austrian experts, but also the public, the people here in this country, the opportunity to obtain public views. They simply exclude the population from this process, just as the party that has attached itself to citizens' participation, more direct democracy, always louder on its flags. What you call youth protection in your proposal is a pure hypocrisy to me as a doctor and health expert. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and list of fungus.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] For there is no doubt: The best protection for youth health is a general ban on smoking in the gastronomy, since you can ask experts from all different directions. ==References== July 2015, on that day when the Non-Smoker Protection Act was passed, I quote: “For me, this is [...] a day that I have expected [...] with joy. This is for me [...] a story that has been going on since 2008. – Since 2008, ladies and gentlemen! I am honestly shocked that today, ten years after that, I am standing in front of you in this plenary room and have to put on the table the same subject, the same arguments again. [[Abg. Belakovich: Where were you in 2008?]] It is exactly the same as ten years ago and 20 years ago. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] [[Abg. Deimek: Yes, because they have not gotten better, but worse!]] Among you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, are 28 Members who voted unanimously with us three years ago in favour of the ban on smoking. I personally wonder: How are you today? [[Abg. Kitzmüller:... failed!]] How are you now going to have to go in the opposite direction of your decision at the time? How do you explain your conscience, your children, your grandchildren, your beliefs? How do you explain this to your voters? [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and list of fungus.]] And: What is the opinion of the health spokesman of the ÖVP? On all these questions I have not heard a clear statement from any of you; and this, although more and more ÖVP councils, ÖVP mayors from all over Austria, are speaking medially for the ban on smoking, stands behind this popular desire. It goes even further: The former head of the ÖVP Reinhold Mitterlehner and former head of state Erwin Pröll have also publicly made their statement of support for the Don’t-smoke people’s desire. [[Abg. Rosary: This has always been a great friend of the Social Democrats!]] Yesterday I was able to see on television that Josef Pühringer, too, expressed himself very clearly and even spoke of a public uproar, a public uproar that must be taken seriously by this Parliament. In doing so, I ask myself the question: Is it really worth the coalition pact with the FPÖ to put the health of the population at risk to sell practically? [[Abg. Deimek: Be careful! They put you at risk from the SPÖ!]] One thing has become clear to me in these months: The opinion and positioning of the ÖVP on laws, which it has already adopted unanimously, seem to change depending on who is just its coalition partner. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear: We, the Social Democracy, will not stop putting up with this issue and fighting for it. We will not simply watch as you risk the health of people in this country, the health of children, the young people only out of political calculation. [[I should like to congratulate SPÖ and List Pilz, as well as Neos representatives.]] Each of us knows: Health is not available. But I also say clearly: She must never be selling. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] [[Abg. Rosary: So, at this ten-class medicine you have introduced, health is very likely to buy! That's very cool!]] We now know that every year 13 000 people in Austria lose their lives because they are exposed to tobacco smoke – I say consciously: they are exposed, because they are by far not only affected by active smokers. No, you know very well, they're also nonsmokers. Every eighth smoker is non-smoking. Thousands of smokers could be prevented every year in Austria if we introduced a general ban on smoking in the gastronomy and finally lower the smoking rates in that country. How do we know? – We know it from the experiences of many EU countries, OECD countries, who have introduced a general ban on smoking for many years and have been able to record steadily declining numbers of smokers and associated diseases. What is the case in Austria? – In Austria we have had stagnatingly high numbers of smokers for years, and in the last four decades, over the last 40 years, we have a constant share of 25 percent of smokers in the population in Austria. This is every fourth Austrian, every fourth Austrian. Let's look into the USA! Let's look at the UK! There has been a general ban on smoking in the gastronomy for some time. It is precisely in these 40 years that these countries have succeeded in halving their smoking rates while our 40 years have remained constant. What is the difference between us and these countries? – It is the general ban on smoking in the gastronomy. Fewer smokers in Austria and in all countries mean less smoking-related deaths, fewer heart attacks, fewer lung diseases, less miscarriage – all of which can be read in medical literature. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and list of fungus.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: Very sporty ending!]] We already have concrete figures from Austria. A recent study by the Medical University of Graz has dealt with the concrete effects of a smoke-free gastronomy on child health in Austria, and the result of this study is clear: 1 500 hospital stays of children and adolescents could be prevented every year if we had a non-smoking gastronomy – 1,500! What does that figure mean? – It’s a theoretical number, but it’s really about children, children with severe pneumonias, with severe asthma attacks, early births, small babies are affected here! Let us take a closer look at the situation in Austria from a medical point of view: Cancers are the second most common cause of death in Austria. The mortality of cancer is consistently declining, which has many reasons, but there is a single exception to the decline in the mortality of cancers, namely lung cancer. It is not a coincidence that it is the lung cancer that represents the great exception, but it is quite clear: This is mostly associated with smoking, and that's exactly the difference. The numbers of lung cancers in Austria have not remained the same in recent years, they have increased over the last ten years, especially in women. [[Abg. Belakovich: Under the SPÖ government!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's so embarrassing that only the FPÖ can say!]] I'm telling you honestly: For me as a doctor, these numbers are alarming, and for you in politics too, there should be alarming figures to which we should oppose everything. We also know: Almost all lung cancers are associated with smoking, and that's the good news, because that means they're avoidable. That's exactly where we have to go. A disease like lung cancer, what does that mean? – This is not a banal sniff. This means that within five years of diagnosis, you have a 15 percent chance of survival. 15 percent – this makes lung cancer one of the most aggressive cancers and cancer entities we know in medicine. This disease destroys lives, it destroys families. She takes children's father or mother. Ladies and gentlemen, for me non-smokers protection is not a political question, no, it is not an ideological question either, and there is no question as to whether one belongs as a member of a left or right party in this Parliament. For me, it is a question of political responsibility, and it is a question of pure reason. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] [[Abg. Deimek: But it is inconsistent if you want to allow everything else!]] For these very reasons, I am speaking to you today not only as a politician, no, I speak primarily as a doctor to you, as a doctor who wants to leave nothing untry to show the consequences of your projects that you have planned and introduced today for the health of the population in that country. Each year, 13,000 people are killed by tobacco consumption in Austria. I figured this out. By the end of your legislative period, there will be over 60,000 people in total, and many of them could be saved by active non-smoking protection, through a total ban on smoking in the gastronomy. That is beyond doubt. I know that the topic of smoking has been discussed very emotionally in recent years and has been overshadowed by a lot of emotion in the last few weeks and days. [[Abg. Rosary: Thanks be to God the SPÖ such!]] I also want to make it clear here that I am not concerned with showing my finger to supposed guilty people. [[Abg. Belakovich: No?- Oh, my God!]] – No, it’s not about a match smoker against non-smokers. [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Zanger.]] This is not the debate we are having here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] This match smoker against non-smokers you want, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, we don't want to join. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lausch and Mr Zanger.]] Most of the supporters of non-smokers protection are smokers, at least the ones I know. I can tell you very clearly what this is all about: People in Austria want non-smokers protection. The people in Austria want a smoke-free gastronomy, the people in Austria want more health, and on it they have a right. They are fighting for this right, and half a million signatures in the framework of the online petition of cancer aid and now almost half a million declarations of support in the context of the Don’t-smoke people’s desire despite technical problems are a cry, as Josef Pühringer called it. And it will continue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know very well, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ: You can't simply ignore these voices. These voices in the people must be heard. To say, we wait for the outcome of popular desire, but at the same time today the law, without consideration, is more than a farce, ladies and gentlemen, it is an ear fig. [[Abg. Rosary: Ah so? What are we doing today?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Today we do not tick at all!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] It is an earbeat for all those committed people who are behind this popular desire and who have already given their support for it and have often taken hours of waiting for it. It also shows, however, how great your ignorance of the populace is. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and FPÖ, you cannot say: We are for the health of the population, but for non-smokers we are not. And you can't say: We are for more direct democracy, but we may want to make a referendum for non-smoking in 2022. [[Abg. Belakovich: Nobody said!]] You too, Mrs Hartinger-Klein, cannot say that you have no pleasure in abolishing the ban on smoking, but at the same time obviously do not do much to prevent it, and instead simply think that it is not your task, but Parliament's task and cause. I can remind you that, as Minister of Health in this country, you are responsible for this function – I quote – to ensure that “protection against the dangers to the general health of the population” and I know what I am talking about here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] Madam Minister, I should therefore like to ask you, as Minister of Health of the Republic, to carry out your task and to ensure that the ban on smoking enters into force as we have already decided in this House, as all the experts in that country approve, in the sense of human health in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15197	To answer the question, the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15220	Mr President. High house! Dear Mrs Federal Minister a.D.! Allow me to start with questions 21 to 24, because this may explain some basic things. I can say in advance that I could show you countless responses to questions where social-democratic ministers have been hiding behind the fact that their personal opinion or the prediction of the future is not the subject of execution and therefore they do not answer questions. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Obernosterer.]] [[Abg. Deimek:... socialist politics...!]] I, ladies and gentlemen, will not hide me. So, how do I personally stand for the ban on smoking in the gastronomy? – Austria is a very hospitable country. We have a long tradition in tourism, and apart from the business, many hostesses are simply very hospitable people who like to give their fellow human beings shelter for a while, and we support the guests in satisfying their personal needs. We give the guests food, we give them to drink, we offer them protection from extreme heat and as today from icy temperatures. Of course, the host does not measure its guests if they have minor weaknesses, but the last Federal Government, Ladies and gentlemen, the hospitality in our country has forbidden a certain group of people. They have forbidden the hostess to host smokers – with all their small weaknesses. [[Abg. Jarolim: This is the case throughout Europe!]] Please, my colleague. [[Abg. Jarolim: But that's ridiculous!]] [[Call the FPÖ: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: That's not true at all!]] They have forbidden travellers with all their needs at icy temperatures to be included for a few hours until their next appointment. They have forbidden the hostess their hospitality, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You have forbidden the hostess hospitality, and because you knew how cruel this law is, you have decided a transitional period so that your arrangements will only enter into force under the next government.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15346	I'm asking for peace. [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is a urgent inquiry, there are answers!]] [[Abg. Rosary: So what do you really believe!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein: Mr Klubobmann, Sorry -!]] I would ask that the answer be given as well. I should like to ask for general reassurance, the emotion is a matter of content.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15419	Because you have known how cruel this law is, you have decided a transitional period so that Its rules will only enter into force under the next government. They have actually tried to shift responsibility. - I'm sorry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, every law needs a majority in Parliament. The proposal for an initiative does not come from my place of business, but it is a request from the Members of Parliament. The possibility of an influence on the process of lawmaking is my result of the division of powers, which is enshrined in the Constitution – Mr Colleague, please listen! – largely deprived; this is subject to Parliament's self-control. [[Abg. Wittmann: You are Minister of Health! Take care of your responsibility!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: What question was that to?]] – 21 to 24, Mr Klubobmann! I said it in the beginning. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But I didn't recognize - -! That hasn't been asked! Read the questions!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Bad losers in SPÖ! Neither mayor nor Chancellor...!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! You can now turn back and wait for the Austrians to vote on it, then the majority dominate the minority, but it will not serve social peace in the country. You can just watch what happens if you drive bans too far. This would not be possible with a genuine social peace. So, now I come to answer question 1: There is an absolute ban on smoking in 13 countries and in three federal states – Bavaria, Saarland and North Rhine-Westphalia – in Germany. Otherwise, smoking bans in the gastronomy are in force in other EU countries with partly different forms, specifications and restrictions. [[Abg. Look!]] On question 2: Generally speaking, tobacco control measures such as tobacco tax, advertising bans, restrictions on availability et cetera lead to a reduction in the number of smokers. The figures available from Germany, England, Ireland and Italy indicate that a reduction in tobacco consumption is expected. There are currently no detailed figures for the other EU countries available to our ministry, so that no relevant information can be provided at present. Question 3: 26 percent of the population of the European Union smoke. According to the two most recent surveys on smoking behaviour in the population, 24 percent of the age group smoke 15 plus daily. Considering the results of the survey series survey on substance use, the current result shows a decrease in tobacco consumption, which is not linked to the ban on smoking. The results of the health survey of Statistics Austria document consistent values during the time period studied. In the European Union Compared with the daily smokers, Austria is 24 percent above the EU average of 19 percent. The EU-28 average for total smokers – daily and occasionally – is 24 percent, and in Austria it is 33 percent. [[Abg. Wittmann: Unmistakable!]] – What is inconceivable now if I answer your questions, Mr Commissioner? [[Abg. Christ: That was a general remark!]] OECD: On average, 18.4% of the adult population smoke in the 34 OECD countries. Question 4: There is a decline, but this is not a causal link to the ban on smoking, but is due to measures of awareness-building. However, this does not take into account the consumption of other non-smoking tobacco products, such as liquefied tobacco. Question 5: According to the two most recent student surveys HBSC 2014 and Espad 2015, currently 10 and 16 percent of 15-year-olds smoke three times a day. A little less than half of 15-year-old students claim to have already experienced smoking tobacco. On question 6: The rate of youth smokers in the other OECD countries is on average 11.7 percent. In comparison: In Austria it is 14.5 percent. Question 7: In the case of general bans on smoking in the gastronomy, there are no studies or survey results in relation to the consumption behaviour of young people in my ministry. Therefore, significant relevant information to this effect cannot at present be provided in the absence of such results. Question 8: Smoking prevalence in children and adolescents has halved since 2002. In the European comparison, Austria is slightly above or significantly above the average depending on the series of surveys. On the question 9: To the extent that statements and results concerning the quota of juvenile smokers are available as measured by the total population, a comparison is only conditional or impossible if different age groups are used in appropriate surveys and surveys. It is generally noted that a trend towards reducing tobacco consumption in the EU countries and also in Austria can be observed. Question 10: According to OECD, over the last ten years, there has been a continuous decline in the number of young smokers in the OECD countries. On the question 11: Following the studies and surveys on substance consumption, it can be assumed that there has been a significant decrease in daily smoking in the population group 15 plus over the last 10 years. Overall, there is a decline at EU level. According to the 2015 Espad evaluation, on average, there has been a sharp decline in young smokers in the EU countries from 2013. Question 12: The result of the Austrian tobacco control policy: Austria received 36 points at the European Tobago Control Scale, making it 34. Job. Better places at the European Tobago Control Scale, for example, were UK, followed by Ireland and Iceland. On the question 13: The TNRSG's proposed innovation is in line with the international law obligation arising from the FCTC, as the current gastronomy regime is to be maintained and the protection rules for children and young people are substantially strengthened. Question 14: The late consequences of tobacco use include cardiovascular diseases such as heart attack or stroke, respiratory diseases such as COPD, chronic bronchitis or asthma, and malignancies such as lung cancer, cervical and esophagus cancer, urinary bladder cancer or pancreatic cancer. Question 15: Shining cigarettes give off a lot of small particles with a high pollutant concentration. In addition, the inhaled and re-inhaled smoke comes. The fine smoke particles gather on curtains, ceilings, walls and other items and, as cold smoke, burden the ambient air, even if no smoking is done. In passive smoking, tobacco smoke is taken from the ambient air. This smoke contains the same toxic and carcinogenic substances as the smoke inhaled during smoking. Many studies have documented that there is a health risk even in the involuntary inhalation of cigarette smoke, in the consumption of second-hand smoke. Through passive smoking, carcinogens enter the respiratory tract. WHO estimates that 10 percent of lung cancers from non-smokers are due to passive smoking. On the question 16: Smoking is undoubtedly a cause of lung cancer. Worldwide, 30 percent of all cancer deaths are due to tobacco consumption, with the link between smoking and lung cancer being most clearly documented. A serious estimate, which is caused by passive smoking, is not possible. As the answer to question 15 shows, the WHO estimates are 10 percent. On the question 17: According to expert estimates, between 11,000 and 14,000 Austrians die from the effects of smoking each year. The proportion of passive smokers can only be estimated. [[Abg. Strolz: There are studies on this! That's not right, Mrs. Minister!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] On the question 18: As the organs and the immune system of children are still developing, their health is particularly threatened by passive smoking. In addition, children have a higher breathing frequency in relation to their body weight than adults. The risk of sudden infant death is at least twice as high for passive smoking infants as for infants growing up in a smoke-free environment. Children who are exposed to tobacco smoke often suffer from lung growth and lung function. Acute and chronic respiratory diseases and asthma as well as middle ear inflammation and meningitis are also more common. On question 19: According to the 2008 IHS study on the economic effects of smoking, the net cost of smoking was EUR 256.8 million in 2003. In contrast, the fiscal benefit from the tobacco tax revenue for the public sector is around 30,42 billion euros and 1.09 billion euros as an annuity in the life-cycle model. Question 20: Since 2005, non-smokers protection has been constantly increased, especially for children and young people, and further aggravation is underway in this area. In addition, however, individual freedom of choice should also be properly taken into account. Questions 21 to 24 have already been answered at the beginning. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15652	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Kucher is now on the floor. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15676	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Strache, I'm really hard on myself. [[Call the FPÖ: Mr. Minister!]] [[Abg. Little: Vice chancellor!]] How to hold a debate here in Parliament when you feel that facts, international studies and everything else Don't matter any more? We are used to sharing facts and studies. Pamela Rendi-Wagner did not just quote as a doctor, but also as a health expert, and the Minister of Health has also mentioned numbers that really make me thinkful. If you hear that the risk of sudden infant death in connection with passive smoking is twice as high, then you have to see that these are dramatic consequences, and we all really know that. The question is: How do we deal with this debate when there is a feeling that the facts are really completely no matter what? Allow me to help with a metaphor so that we may think about this path a little bit! A few years ago, Wolfgang Schüssel and Jörg Haider – you know the famous pictures – were sitting in the Porsche together, and now together with Sebastian Kurzim, they are on their way together. If you are on the highway and notice that there is a car coming to you, then you can say: Insanity, there's a ghost driver on the way! On the second car, if then Sebastian Kurzsacht: You, H.-C., there's a ghost driver coming to meet us again!, you might start thinking. If the third or fourth car comes across the highway, would you have to start thinking about whether you're perhaps the ghost driver yourself or if it could be that everyone else's wrong opinion? – And that’s exactly how it is in this debate! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] [[Abg. Singer: That's a super Carinthian dirt, gal? The joke goes...!]] It's really absurd. In this debate, it is not only against reason, against the house mind that you often quote, but actually against everything that we should believe in here. It is against the will of the population: Half a million people have signed – and that doesn't matter! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lausch and Mr Lugar.]] You also take action against your own Minister of Health: The Minister of Health has directed the head of the party Strache, which is her private opinion. – Yes, no wonder you don’t trust yourself today, we need to protect the population if it means that’s your private opinion. - Unbelievable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] You're against what you promised before the election today. Where is direct democracy? It's all unbelievable! Half of the ÖVP delegates – I am sorry for you – voted for non-smokers protection here, and at once you need to change your opinion by 180 degrees today, completely contrary to your previous view. Mr President Sobotka, I really ask you to speak personally to Sebastian Kurz and tell him that the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP should follow their consciences. That's pathetic what's going on here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Government is not a honey lick!]] I can make another trip to Carinthia: Gernot Darmann, in the middle of the election campaign – here the campaign leader Angerer – calls for a referendum. [[Abg. Schimanek: The Carinthian Landtag...!]] We all know that the FPÖ Carinthians have nothing to talk about throughout the country, but you, colleague Angerer, are in fact demanding a referendum in Carinthia and want to be here in Vienna, hardly are they aware of the package at all. Why Fight You're not for direct democracy and a referendum? Incredible! Unbelievable! [[Cheerfulness, condolences and bravails at SPÖ, as well as congratulation with representatives of NEOS and List Pilz.]] Health spokesperson Belakovich said a few years ago: Please, let us take this pathetic issue, let us make a referendum! – That was Your proposal! It cannot, however, mean that you were of this opinion yesterday and are of that opinion tomorrow. I don't know, it's all just any more. Incredible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] [[Abg. Hauser: We learned that from you!]] One more point: In this whole debate, we are already wondering: Why do we not have a German chancellor in Austria? If such a chaos breaks out, everyone else believes that the Minister of Health at once takes over the tourism and economic agents, then there must be a Federal chancellor who does his job! [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] He must either take a job invitation and look for a health minister or bring everyone to a table and include all the experts. Sebastian Kurz has not only represented about every opinion on this question. That's pathetic what's going on here. Incredible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] [[Abg. Singer: You smoked yourself once, as you do!]] [[Abg. That's incredible.]] Finally, I say that as someone who is a smoker himself – one of the few points I have with H.-C. In common –: It is reasonable that you go on the road, it may not be very pleasant in the cold, but that's great anyway, because it's healthier that you smoke less. It's possible you smoke outdoors. You get to know each other – the smokers are normally also communicative people – you talk to each other, you also cross-group. It will probably be reasonable for you to go on the road. There are a lot of people who smoke, who have no problem at all, to say: Yes, I am in favour of non-smoker protection because I love children and people who work in the gastronomy. It must be possible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: But you also smoke in the inn! I've seen you smoke in the inn!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I just said it: You can go to the street and consume the cigarette there as well, if it already has to be. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] I may ask for the following for all the emotions that are present: Mr. Vice-Kanzler Strache – and Sebastian, too, may we briefly send this message – we end this embarrassing debate and let us vote for the people!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15938	The next item is the speech by Mr Karl Nehammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15960	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Thank you. [[Call the list Pilz:-in! It's a woman!]] [[Abg. Singer: This is Blunzn!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: He said eh “Woman Minister!”]] Philip – I can tell Philip that we have known each other for a long time; I also know that you like to smoke occasionally, even in the inn, but now independent of it – you have given a very polemic speech here. [[Call the SPÖ:Polish? What was that polemic?]] [[Abg. Stefan: Polish? Really?]] If I think now that Mrs Wagner has rightly found something here, I would like to strengthen it. [[Call at the SPÖ:Rendi carner she's called!]] . I see you are very precise today, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. The calls are not heard on television, but I can say that it is going to be much better, and it is also really allowed to speak out. – Thank you very much for that. Mrs Wagner said quite clearly: Health is an important asset, and health must continue to be protected, including through our request. The impression that is being raised is wrong, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The ban on smoking remains in the public space, and the ban on smoking in the gastronomy remains, except for extra rooms. That means you have to clear up with the myth that everything is going to be different now, just because this request is coming. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mrs Rendi-Wagner – I too can correct myself, Mrs Colleague – also said that non-smoker protection is important. Non-smokers protection is also strengthened by the fact that for the first time in this Second Republic, we have clearly stated that youth protection is taking place. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But there must be another amendment!]] In the future, this scheme will prohibit young people from becoming 18 years old. Buy tobacco products in years of life. It will not be possible for young people to stay in areas where smoking is done. You just mentioned the importance of non-smoker protection. [[Abg. Krainer: This is not in the request!]] – This cannot be done in this proposal either, Mr Krainer, because it is – you know that as a parliamentarian – country competence. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But then don't say it!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Then claim...!]] – Without excitement, ladies and gentlemen! The youth representatives of all the federal states have committed themselves to introducing this non-smokers protection. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, yes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] You said earlier that health must not be ball of polemics and party politics. I'm sorry that the spectators can't see your onions now and the show you're taking off here. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig:... yes nothing!]] We are in fact talking about non-smokers protection for young people, and we are going to implement it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] It is also a matter of existing regulations. There can be no doubt that there is agreement, ladies and gentlemen. There is no one here in the room who does not see his highest goal in combating the consequences of nicotine consumption. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Go, go, go!]] Smoking is harmful, everyone in the room confesses, there is no dissent at all. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stroll: You're a cynic!]] – If we take it seriously, Mr Strolz, it becomes cynical to hear your call now; then it becomes cynical, because the most efficient measure to protect young people is still the prevention of behaviour. [[Abg. Straw: Cynic!]] What does that mean? – You have to start before young people get to the cigarette. [[Abg. Stroll: That's the point!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] I'll tell you: I've been a smoker myself, eight years ago I stopped. My entry was very classic at 15. It would have been important to have a mood in which one sees that it is not cool to smoke. It is necessary to inform, motivate, protect and support behavioural prevention. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: That's not enough!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Prohibition?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Prohibit all cigarettes?- Oh, my God!]] This is a really right and important measure. This is a call for us politicians and politicians, for all of us. I cordially invite you: Let us fight together for non-smokers protection and for the protection of young people!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16275	Mr Peter Wurm is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16310	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in plenary and ladies and gentlemen! It is, as expected, very emotional discussion, smoking is an emotional topic. I have even given some very emotional speeches on this subject in recent years. Today I will try to deal with this as objectively as possible. I hope I manage. Perhaps once again to make this clear, because, of course, there is a lot of propaganda being done, so I would like to say that once again, Mrs Ex-Minister Rendi-Wagner, you should know: [[Call the SPÖ:-in!]] We have had a general ban on smoking in the gastronomy in Austria for ten years. But we have – and there you can say: Thank God! – found in Austria a solution for a peaceful and tolerant interaction between smokers and non-smokers. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have very specific - - – Just listen that would not harm you! [[Abg. Arbitrators: (in the direction of the Vice-Chancellor of Strache, speaking with President Sobotka) What is the Vice-Chancellor doing at the Bureau?]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, because honestly say: We have a house order!]] We have very specific exceptions when you can allow a smoking area in the gastronomy. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Sorry...!]] These exceptions will, of course, continue to exist in this form. [[Abg. Kuntzl: What is the Vice-Cancellor doing at the Bureau?]] What happened in 2015 I will explain in a row: In 2015, the government decided on a total ban on smoking. A total ban on smoking: The term alone is very brutal if you ask me. [[Oh-Rufe and cheerfulness to representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] I'm seriously asking you: Do you want a total ban on smoking in Austria? [[Abg. Scherak: Is that serious, the formulation?]] We don't want that. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of Parliament, Lausch and Arbitrators.]] I will tell you again briefly what we Freeman always wanted; we wanted to achieve two things: We want to maintain the free choice of adult people, free citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kuntzl: How is passive smoking?]] The second area, which was very, very important, extremely important to us, is the area of child protection and youth protection. We will also expand and intensify this area – my previous speaker explained it. That's my accusation to the ex-minister Rendi-Wagner: They have not managed to establish this protection of children and youth in a law. [[Mr Rendi-Wagner and Mr Schieder.]] You didn't do that. Unfortunately, in the past, hardly anyone has looked at the law of 2015. I will explain briefly what was decided at that time. No passus on youth protection has been decided, not one. If you can call me one, Mrs. Ex-Minister, then do it. You're right now! There's no one, no one. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: The best protection is the general ban on smoking, Mr Colleague.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Where?]] A second area - a second area shows yes - [[Abg. Stefan: Where?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gudenus.]] [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: There is no better protection!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16577	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16607	A second area in this Act of 2015 was the field of e-cigarettes, the steam story when you remember. In fact, you can see very clearly that it was not your concern to prevent passive smoking. One thing is quite clear with e-cigarettes: One can argue whether e-cigarettes are in harm's way to 99 percent for a person, but they are proven to be 100% harmless to anyone else who inhale e-steam. That's proven to be safe. In the 2015 law, however, you have just as banned the healthy variant, namely steams. In addition, you have imposed bans in the association area, even outdoors. This law of 2015 was therefore a grossly bad law and it does not enter into force thanks to God 2015. [[Abg. Kassinger: 18!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You might also have to say – I think you have to make this clear sometime – in order to make it a little emotional: There are no bad smokers and good nonsmokers. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Rendi-Wagner.]] This propaganda, which has been running up land for years, does not help anyone else. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We liberals are in the position: Children and young people must be protected, but adult, free citizens in a free country must be able to decide for themselves how they spend their private time. At the gastronomy we talk about a private area. The gastronomy can decide for itself whether to make a non-smoking location or a smoking room with exceptions. Again, to mention: In Austria, 90 percent of restaurants are already – thank God! – smoke-free. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: It's not responsible what you're doing!]] So don't make a drama of things that develop in the right direction anyway! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] [[Further call at the SPÖ:... can be 10 percent...!]] At the end of the day, perhaps very briefly, because this was also a topic of direct democracy: There have been countless popular desires in recent years that have not been taken into account by red, black and green. We liberals have always said quite clearly that we want direct democracy and we will help direct democracy to victory. [[Abg. Dispensers: Exactly, and now you step them with feet.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I am very, very happy and can hardly expect all parties represented here to win direct democracy in Austria, and every concern of citizens in Austria has equal weight. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck]] Every signature of a citizen in Austria, no matter what topic, even if it does not fit you ideologically, has the same importance; and a popular desire does not only have weight if it fits you into the political concept – it cannot be. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] A final sentence, because it's very nice: I do not often have the opportunity to draw up the “standard” as a reference, which is not necessarily our rapporteur. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Do you only take court reporters?]] Today in the “Standard”, who read it: “Don’t smoke – a step into slavery? Where is the protection of minorities or the freedom of individuals?” – This is what the “standard” writes today. I can't add anything to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16739	Next item is the report by Mr Matthias Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16760	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! This is the debate on non-smoking gastronomy – yes or no. I think it's an incredibly cynical debate. This is a decision on life and death, and there you can roll as much with your eyes as you want, what you're doing here is not responsible, and you know it exactly. That's not responsible! [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] Mrs. Health Minister, what about you? They are responsible for people's health, and there are enough studies to properly demonstrate the harmfulness of tobacco smoking. I'm not a visionary who believes that tomorrow the drug-free society will break out. [[Abg. Belakovich: But you want it!]] H.-C. Strache and I have also smoked a cigarette together, so it is not. [[Oh-noise and cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Sapperlot!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: This is cynical!]] - That's not cynical! [[Call the FPÖ:... Tschick!]] Just showing that you didn't understand anything! [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] [[Abg. New builder: But neither do you!]] [[Abg. Stefan: I didn't understand that now!]] You are in a kind of ignorance: They deliberately buy dead people. They deliberately buy dead people! [[Call the FPÖ:Na go!]] [[Abg. Stefan: I didn't understand that now!]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Unmistakable!]] It's so hard! [[Abg. Stefan: Then we ban it totally!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] If you are questioned, Mrs. Minister: We have recorded 13 000 deaths in Austria each year due to the late consequences of the rabies. 13,000 Dead! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] The question is: How many of these are passive smokers? [[Abg. Stefan:... nobody smoke at all!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mr President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16954	Yeah, I've been ringing.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16970	How many of these are passive smokers? They say: You can only appreciate that. – Mrs Minister, that is not true! I expect you to deal with science. [[Abg. Stefan: From the gastronomy or home or from the car?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] For example, there are studies at the University of Vienna, joint studies by researchers from MedUni Wien and the Messerli Research Institute, which say that in 2017 alone there were 1,000 people in Austria who died from passive smoking. These are two to three Austrians who die daily from passive smoking! [[Abg. Belakovich: But where do they smoke passively?]] [[Interlocutors Angerer and Gudenus.]] Now you're saying it should continue to be that way. They say that two to three Austrians should continue to die daily by passive smoking. [[Call at the FPÖ:Where?]] [[Abg. Stefan: Prohibiting at home!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gudenus.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] The place where passive smoking takes place is the gastronomy. It's the gastronomy, and it'll stay the gastronomy. You know - -
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17066	There are still 17 speakers, you can still make enough arguments. I beg you to let the speaker speak!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17082	You know this and you have a bad conscience. [[Call the FPÖ:No!]] They decide to die. Everyone who has an idea of health doesn't talk. Where is the health speaker of the ÖVP? Mrs. Schwarz, you don't come out and don't talk because you have a bad conscience. [[Abg. Black: No!]] Where is Kenyak from the FPÖ? [[Abg. Rosary: Kaniak!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ:Kaniak!]] [[Abg. Rosary: I'm actually correcting: Kaniak!]] You know, you're not coming out, you're not talking. Where's Mrs. Belakovich? You as a doctor know, but you don't come out, you don't talk. Where is Mr Smolle? He was head of MedUni Graz. [[Abg. Rosary: It is also dangerous if you are so excited!]] Mr Smolle, you know that you are here carrying death and death. You know, but you're not coming out, you're not going to talk, you're gonna continue to decide to die. [[Call the FPÖ... the Duracell out once?]] That's not okay! [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] They set party policy tactics about the death of two to three Austrians a day. [[Call the FPÖ: Stop it!]] This is scientific evidence. [[Abg. Belakovich: Please calm down again!]] You have to ask yourself - - – This is scientific evidence. [[Abg. Stefan: Are they in the inn?]] [[Abg. Rosary: No! Are they in the inn?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Where?]] [[Abg. Stefan: Are they in the inn, or where?]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Is the infantry script in the inn in the Rauchestüberl?]] Again: There are two to three deaths due to passive smoking in Austria a day, which has been scientifically proven. [[Abg. Belakovich: But where?]] In the social context, the gastronomy is the place where passive smoking is most common. [[Abg. Rosary: For infants?]] These are centers of social life. [[Abg. Stefan: How many hours do you spend at home and how many in the inn?]] [[Call at the FPÖ:No one has to go if...!]] [[Abg. New builder:... with the NEOS!]] [[Abg. Singer: I'm going to the infant café now!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Look at this. If you had the courage to be honest, then you would remove the force of clubs – and then you don't have a majority, you know that exactly. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You choose to die and your Party Tactical Line. I do not think that is all right. Mrs Minister, you know it's about smoking, but it's also about additives. We know it's hundreds of additives. A total of 90 of these are categorized by health professionals as probably cancer-producing or cancer-producing. You know that there are substances like Acrolein. [[Abg. Rosary: I would slowly do away with driving!]] These are, in part, toxic additives attached to tobacco. These substances are even absorbed and held via the skin, say experts, on tabletops, on clothing, on curtains, on fabric animals. We have all this scientific evidence. [[Abg. Stefan: Prohibiting at home!]] - No, don't ban at home! [[Call the FPÖ:Oh yes!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Oh yes, that is the unhealthful! There's dying!]] Look at this. I'm saying there's no drug-free society. People will continue to smoke. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Again: I also smoke to a cigarette from time to time. [[Call the FPÖ:Now we know it!]] But I'm a fucking politician here and I have responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17496	Excuse me, Mr Strolz. There are still enough possibilities to present the counter-arguments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] It is certainly clear in our House that we are going to let the President, Mr Krainer, speak out. Thank you. [[Abg. Krainer: There are no counterarguments!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17542	I expect each one of you to have clarity of roles! They act here as politicians, and politics is the place where we make up how we live together. If we have evidence that in Austria two to three people die from passive smoking a day, then we have something to do with it, then we have to ensure the smoke-free gastronomy. You all know that, you push it away and you decide to die. I think that's absolutely grotesque. If I listen to you, Mr. Strache, and you say: I want a referendum anyway, but I can't because the ÖVP binds me!, and then hear Mr. Kurz, who says: I want a referendum anyway, but I can't because the FPÖ binds me!, I wonder: Is this government a self-retirement club? Is that a binding club? Or what about you? [[Cheerfulness and applause with the NEOS, as well as applause with SPÖ and list of fungus.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Cabaret of the finest!]] You have to set the framework here for the people. It's distressing, it's pathetic and without responsibility what you're doing here! Gabriel Obernosterer, you're the only one of the 28 who chose a smoke-free gastronomy that will speak afterwards. Yeah, what about you? [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What are the arguments for making a 180-degree turn? The others don't even have the mum to get out, they're sluggishing away. They choose to die against any scientific evidence. Mr Smolle, rector of a medical university, once again: Has You're an upright gang, aren't you? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Then you can't vote here! Then you have to vote against the club line here! Then make a revolt at the ÖVP Parliamentary Club! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You got cojones or not? I can't do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17636	I ask you to take that expression back, right away, or I give you a call for order. [[Call the FPÖ:Women's hostility! Unheard of!]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I'm asking for peace!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17671	I'll take it back! Do you have mumm or not? I take back this Spanish expression! It's already that it's distressing what you're doing. That's a really sad game. [[Abg. Schimanek: That's a treasure!]] You can go out of here and decide on the request we are making today. We say that we are leading to a popular survey, so I make the following request: [[Call the FPÖ:It's a shame you don't have a doctor!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] This poll can quickly provide clarity and you can meet your responsibilities. We will, of course, also request a referendum in a further step as soon as we advise your legislative proposal in the Health Committee. If you, Mr Strache, love FPÖ, do not want to falter people, but take them for full, if you want to do what you announced before the election day, namely to involve the people, then you cannot stand up against such things! [[Abg. Rosary: So I don't take one for full anymore!]] In this question – almost half a million people have already supported it within two weeks – give the people the chance to set the course! Stop setting election tactics about human life! That's unworthy! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That's not worthy of you, and that's an injury. Their duties as politicians and elected representatives of the people in that country. That's exactly what you know. Shame! [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Fasching's already over, Mr. Strolz!]] [[Abg. Stroll: (on the way to his seat) Shame!]] [[15:59]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17872	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17896	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! But also very dear spectators here in the hall and especially in front of the television screens! – Mr Rosenkranz, please calm down! [[Abg. Rosary: (in the direction of Abg. Stroll) Also excited can be dangerous to health!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Speak!]] Yeah. I like to contribute a bit to calming down, and I may be referring in particular to those of us and also to those people who watch us via television, who have not only been in the Austrian gastronomy for the last 20, 30 years, but who have perhaps also visited abroad, who may have been in Ireland, perhaps also in Italy, who may have found that, since the ban on smoking in Ireland, in Italy, the gastronomy companies there are obviously completely empty. There is no one there, so they have to defend the interests of the gastronomy in Austria. I think I understand the Grant of the gastronomy in Austria. I understand that they ask why they are first allowed to create non-smoking areas if they are allowed to rip them out again. I have experienced this, as at the Cafe Drechsler, my city office, which today announced that it will close the gates – not because of that – in this beautiful coffee house, somewhere a partition wall for non-smoker protection has been installed, which you can tear out now. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Not that's why!]] I understand that the gastronists do not approve of this kind of legislation on the thyroid of ÖVP and SPÖ. That's what I see. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] But I also believe that the gastronomy should convince what the physicians have to say about passive smoking. We have heard many numbers today, and if you are now discussing the popular desire the opinions of various respected doctors, more respected - - - yes, they smoke themselves but not in the local. [[Abg. Gudenus: They smoke themselves!]] [[Abg. Rosary: In the hospital! In the illegal smoking grounds in the hospital!]] So for the audience in front of the TV screens: This is once again the Rosary, who, from the first series, is particularly happy to enter into dialogue with me. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] This is very nice of him, we can then continue to do so. For example, what I would like to quote now is an opinion by Mr Peter Schenk, President of the Austrian Pneumology Society. “No smoking” – he says – “ results in a decline in smoking both in the general population and in the critical age of youth. [...] start smoking fewer people and more people give up their addiction. This results in fewer lung cancer and COPD new diseases as well as cardiovascular diseases.” That's how it goes. You can also hear such statements from oncologists and so on. So I mean, you don't have to discuss the importance of protecting against passive smoking. If you are now emphasizing that you are setting new provisions on youth protection, and if you think that you have put in your own initiative in order to be able to somehow legitimise, I must tell you that if you look at the measures on youth protection, for example as regards alcohol, then you have to hold on to them, they are dim and not really gripping. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You only need to imagine what a 17-, 18-year-old will do if he is in a local and his friends sit in the smoking room. He's sitting on it, that's quite clear! So these paper protection regulations you are planning, you are only going to state that you may be able to legitimize your initiative, which is exclusively aimed at cutting down a smoke ban already decided on. If the ÖVP – and that was really a surprise for me – if Mrs. Umweltminister Köstinger – I think very much of her – explain that they have to vote out of Pact fidelity, and if Pact fidelity is indeed about the health of Austrian citizens who are being asked to join citizens when Pact fidelity is put over what is obviously found in a popular desire a very broad support, then this, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, is simply and simply sad. [[Abg. Belakovich: We don't know that yet! There's no popular desire yet!]] [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] If you really want to admit to your Members that they can vote freely and according to their conscience, then you – and you can prepare for it, I think that would be a clear sign – allow a name and a secret vote. Then let us look at how your Members vote if they are freed from the force of clubs. In particular, I ask the spectators not to be confused by the discussions on popular desire, popular survey, referendum that we lead here. At the moment, a declaration of support for popular desire can be made in the municipal offices, and if this popular desire receives a correspondingly strong support, then, I am convinced, the government groups will not really trust to implement this regulation, which they have now presented. Therefore, my appeal is to all those who want to protect passive smokers in Austria more strongly to support popular desire with their signature. The initiators today have announced that this is still up to 4. April will be possible, so I ask you: Go to the municipal offices to protect the non-smokers in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18030	Mr Dietmar Keck is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18055	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to raise the emotions, but I have to say: Whoever is leading me today is the woman's Minister of Health. Today, Mrs Health Minister seems to have to make statements that she does not actually want to do. [[Abg. Rosary: After this is a psychologist!]] There have already been many statements from her – wait for a biterl, Mr. Deputies – regarding the non-smokers' protection law. For example, I quote from an interview with the “Kronen Zeitung” in which a question reads: “Your party leader Strache has tipped the planned ban on smoking in locals. What does the new Minister of Health mean?" Your answer: “I’m not happy with that. As for Heinz-Christian Strachepersonal, I will try everything to stop smoking! Finally, he should remain healthy.” She already implies: Smoking makes you sick. “However, I cannot give a guarantee of success.” Mr. Strache is willless, he is unable to give up smoking. [[Call to the FPÖ:He wants to become the Federal President!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] “With regard to smoking, my big concern” – the woman’s health minister’s statement – “just stop smoking” means that the smokers stop smoking. That's her personal opinion she gave in an interview. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] In this opinion, ladies and gentlemen, this is all right. But what she said today is the FPÖ line and not the opinion of the Federal Minister. For today she has had to say that the ban on smoking is a cruel law. [[Abg. Hauser: This is no contradiction! Read meaningfully! That is no contradiction!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: We understood!]] She is not in her opinion, ladies and gentlemen. I can only say, Mrs Federal Minister, do not let this party line influence you, because up to now 430 000 Austrians have supported the Don’t-smoke people with their signature! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But whoever believes that the turquoise/black-blue government is taking this signal from the population to think about the wrong policy it is pursuing, one can only say that it is wrong, given the strategies that the FPÖ, the strache party, has. This has become a reality from the announcement giant since it was represented in the government. Breaking election promises has been a tradition since you were in the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. All right, all right, all right. You mean at the SPÖ!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Schimanek.]] You didn't keep a single one! What does the FPÖ say all the time? – You have announced a great deal that you want more direct democracy. I can recall how strache stood here as a clubman and spoke of the Swiss model, that 250 000 signatures must be sufficient to hold a direct democratic referendum. And how does it look now? How does the FPÖ motto look now? – Direct democracy, yes, but only if it fits her; otherwise she will not be in question. [[Abg. Schimanek: But go! Ceta we have fully supported!]] All that you've heard from the FPÖ last shows that you don't care about the opinion of the population. What arguments does the FPÖ now have against the smoking ban? – The ban on smoking would endanger thousands of jobs in the gastronomy and the Austrian host culture. It does not want an economic, gastronomic and civil order, as it was introduced in Bavaria, according to Strache – these were his statements. Ladies and gentlemen! What does it actually look like in Bavaria? – In Bavaria, consent to the ban on smoking is always high. Four out of five Bavaria praised the ban, also more than half of the smokers and nine out of ten young adults supported the implementation of the ban on smoking. This says a survey by the GfK; it holds highly up-to-date. The loss of sales, as has always been claimed, is not known – as the result of the survey – in Bavaria. On the contrary, sales did not fall after the introduction of the ban on smoking, but they even increased afterwards. That is, all the arguments that have now come from Mr Strache are arguments that simply don't fit. There are, however, other schine arguments that will lead Mr Strache to the meeting. With regard to the employees, for example, he argues in the “press” literally – I quote –: “[...] Workers in the gastronomy would have freely opted for this job. [...] There are also other occupations, such as in the steel industry or in dental technicians, which are affected by dust or other unpleasant things [...]. Mr. Strache, you are well aware that you are here today, because I must tell you that you were probably the last time you were 30 years ago or never at jobs in the steel industry, and as a dental technician you are no longer employed for a long time, otherwise you would have to know that it is unthinkable in the steel industry that workers who are exposed to dust or other things can do their work without appropriate protection measures, such as protective masks with the corresponding filters. Demanding the employees in the gastronomy But they do and want to feed them with supplements because of this health risk. These people should really not care about you, because you say they choose to do this work with massive health problems, they probably decide to know that they can suffer and have a shorter life expectancy. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen: These jobs are not accepted because they are so great, but because the subjects do not find any other. I would like to see the reaction of a host hostess when a waiter who is busy with him explains that he does not serve in the smoking area that he does not waste in the smoking area because it is harmful to health. – This waiter had the job there, he's gone! If I think of the regulation that is being cited here today, or of the law, of what you have said to young people about everything, then I must say: It is not laid down in the law in respect of young people, but you want to regulate it by regulations. You do not specify anything in the law, but you want to set it by regulations, there are no legal regulations. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that is the first Austrian government that doesn't care about the health of Austrians. The turquoise/black-blue government is really going a step back in long past times with the removal of the ban on smoking. So that this is not the case, I shall put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:15]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18311	Thank you. The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Barbara Krenn is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18409	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians and Austrians Richer! Yesterday, journalists called me and, of course, confronted me with the question: Ladies and gentlemen, how do you stand on the Non-Smoker Protection Act? Do you know what I answered? – As mayor, I also made a difference with my government partner and kept it, again and again. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I am also loyal and faithful as a Member of Parliament, because where are we going to be when what matters, when it becomes difficult, when it does not last? As an innkeeper, I can also support the non-smokers' law as it is now, because I know a lot of gastronomy that have converted and invested a lot of money in non-smoker protection. You have to take that into account. You must not forget the hostess or the hostess. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] As a mother and apprentice in charge of gastronomy in Styria, I am particularly concerned that the ban on smoking for young people is now being increased from 16 to 18 years and that a prevention focus is decided at the Landesjugendkonferenz: A change of behaviour rather than a change of relationship. One more word on the whole debate: It means, everywhere, the ban on smoking applies throughout the EU. – In Germany it is only in three federal states, in Greece there is a general ban on smoking, but Greece is the final highlight of the number of smokers. That is why, with the increase in smoking ban for young people at 18 years of age, we are really on the right track. Prevention instead of punishment, more personal responsibility instead of more laws. I know that's an emotional topic. We already have more than 400 000 signatures to support popular desire, which is not to be rejected by hand. Friends from neighbouring countries have recently said that we are actually living in a very happy country, we are really doing very well, because the debate on this non-smokers law can make such waves, which shows that we really have to be good if we don't have any other concerns. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The health is important to all of us, the non-smokers protection also, but one thing is clear: There must be more personal responsibility, and every guest can decide for himself which inn he goes to or not. [[Congratulations and bravado at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In this sense, a steiric happiness and thanks.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18482	Mr Lugar is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18503	We have heard from the SPÖ that a very, very serious damage is caused by the fact that we want to maintain a law that it has made. Of course, it's true that you've made many terrible laws, I'll give you the right, but in this one case, that's not the case. This law was practical. This law has enabled all and also me with my children that I can enjoy my food in a smoke-free area in a restaurant; this is possible. This law allows anyone who does not want to be harassed by tobacco smoke, that it does not have to be. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] In other words, we want to maintain nothing but a law. They have done that is practical and that allows everyone to enjoy their food and visit a local free of smoke. You made this law at the time; you must always point out that you have made this law. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Whatever we want is that a smoker has the opportunity to decide for himself. But you do not want to, because your socialist ideology, which has already failed so well in Communism, is trying to make people fit. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ, NEOS and list Pilz]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That is, there is ideology, and then one tries to make man fit by putting laws on him and telling him what to do and what he has to fail. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What would be next? Is there a ban on alcohol then? [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Passive Drinking!]] They told us how many people die by smoking. Do you know how many people die from alcohol consumption? Or is there a ban on fat or a ban on sugar or a ban on pig bread? [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: There is no passive boar dying!]] If I look in your ranks like this and if I look at the trade unionists like this, it's obvious that they're doing some wrong. What do you want? You're doing it? You want a sign on every pastry with: Prohibitions for all those who are overweight, stick to them? [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: There are no passive diabetes!]] This is exactly the problem we are facing. That is, we want the citizen to be able to decide for himself. [[Call at SPÖ:Citizens, Mr Lugar!]] I know the SPÖ doesn't want that. The SPÖ and Mrs Rendi-Wagner have exposed themselves. You've all said serious things out here that more than half of those who signed are smokers. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: I didn't claim! Listen!]] That's what you claimed to be here today. First of all, this can only be wrong, because you can't even know that. Or did you see with everyone if he was a smoker or not? And second: Do you want to say all the serious things here that a smoker has to be forced by you to go to the non-smoker area? Do you want to say all this seriously? Do you think a smoker asks you to make a law that forbids him to go to the smoking area with a popular desire? Faith You're all serious? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Mr President,...!]] If a smoker – I have been a smoker myself for a while – wants to enjoy his food without smoking, then he goes to the non-smoking area. It's possible. [[Abg. Jarolim: A shaking speech!]] The problem that the Socialists have is their world view. They have a world picture in which the powerful citizen does not appear. [[Abg. Arbitrators: What do you have?]] This is not a question at all because we heard from Mr Strolz today - - I do not know what he smoked that he delivered such a talk here today. [[Abg. Stroll: You're a cynic, you decide to die! Two to three!]] [[Abg. Rosary: (in the direction of Abg. Strolz) I would like to thank you for the fact-finding call!]] [[Abg. Schieder: I thank you for the material contribution!]] There was probably no strolzium in the cigarette you smoked, no strontium. You have seriously accused us of being responsible for a thousand dead people today, just because we allow freedom of choice. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] Well, do you think anyone can stop smoking? You said it yourself: They'll get out of the door and smoke. Is that better? [[Ironic cheerfulness and yes-noise at SPÖ and NEOS.]] I'm the first person to say, Anyone who quits smoking is a profit for public health. Everyone! But he has to decide for himself. Just as trade unionists may have to eat a little less, that's also healthy. [[Ironic cheerfulness and reputation at the SPÖ: Is it even a bit deeper, Mr. Colleague?]] Finally, life is insanely unhealthy, and it always leads to death. Of course, you can do a lot of things to stay healthy, but it's not fun; and that's exactly the point. That is, your anti-hazardous attitude, you should get used to. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Is that fun what you're talking about? It's not fun!]] [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: It's about passive smoking, it's not fun! It's about life and death!]] I am absolutely clear that you want to enter into the steps of the Greens, who are unfortunately or thank God no longer in Parliament, as a non-prohibition party. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We see this differently, however, we do not want to be a prohibition party, but we are the party of powerful citizens, and we want to remain. [[Abg. Stroll: You're a cynical opportunist!]] And this with the Prohibition Party, that's your beer.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18792	Mr Gerald Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18813	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! It is not surprising that the FPÖ has bought itself on the political transfer market Robert Lugar, since all the people who know the matter would not give up for such a speech. [[Cheerfulness and applause with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] Mrs. Belakovich as a health spokesperson would never stand here and give such an unhappiness to the best. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] There would never be such a thing for Mrs. Povysil as a doctor, and it would of course be the pharmacist Mag. Caniak never talk about a health issue like that, because it would insult these people in their intellectuality itself. [[Abg. Rosary: I would expect a bit more tolerance!]] That's why we need it. You have access to your club. You're really ashamed to see something like this. [[Abg. Jarolim: Mr. colleague, one also sees that misunderstanding...!]] It is incontrovertible that in every country that has introduced a ban on smoking in the gastronomy, the number of strokes has immediately decreased, the number of heart attacks has fallen. Of course, it goes a little longer on topics such as lung cancer until you see the positive effects. But you can't dispute that kind of thing. Anyone who knows himself has to withdraw from speaking now, otherwise he would be ashamed of being out there. On the ÖVP side, it's not much better: Professor Smolle does not come out either and refers to the position that I have heard nothing from health spokesman Gabi Schwarz on the issue of smoking ban, but there is not much that has come to be said about radio Burgenland. [[Abg. Black: Research!]] It is also not a sign of strength if you throw all kinds of people at the speaker's desk plus all the gastronomy you have in the ranks, but those who deal with health are hiding on the subject. I think it's very weak. Mr Neubauer, with you I take it with my left finger. [[Abg. New builder: You are a well-known health expert!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Rosary: How many left fingers do you have?]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Ten left fingers!]] There is much to be improved in this law, which should enter into force in May, and we have already presented it at the time of the decision-making. For example, the club is involved in the freedom of association, in the private sphere of the clubs. That wouldn't have been necessary. Take repairs on this point Of course, you're not up to it. If you drive from Graz to Vienna or from Salzburg to Vienna today and you take someone with you, and he gives you 5 euros or 10 euros of petrol money, then this is a free ride and you have to sign a smoking ban in your car. Such stupidities remain in the law. To change that does not apply, instead you request to change the things that actually have an effect on health policy. They also claim that you are doing something for the protection of young people, and then come things like that people who are trained in the gastronomy should be trained mostly in the non-smokers area. I can tell you where they are being trained, mostly where the work is concerned, and not where the pain is or is not. You have to look into life once! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and with SPÖ Members and Pilz List.]] The subject of worker protection must be addressed: The Freeman sees himself on the posters as a social home party. I would see worker protection as a social concern, but I do not hear anything from you. In no other industry is one supposed to be working in this pain to workers, and in the gastronomy you want to think of it to them. That's not all right! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and with SPÖ Members and Pilz List.]] It is held from the side of the gastronomy into the meeting, which would be so harmful to the revenue of the gastronomy: Even the speaker of the German restaurant association Dehoga, Christopher Lück, says: Economically, the situation has returned after a short period of time. – After the introduction of the ban on smoking, there is a short nod, and then it commutes again, says even the speaker of the gastronomy. And the gastronomy, we know that – the Sepp hears away for a short time – is used to pity, that is normal with them. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Mrs Krenn said that gastronomy had invested in non-smokers in the inn. Yes, and that is why last time the legislative decision has also made a special provision on how they can assert this investment taxly so that they do not sit on it. [[Abg. Worm: What are you like as NEOS, liberal and economic-friendly? Mr Loacker, what do you mean by liberalism?]] The summit is when ministers like Mrs Köstinger say that we now have to postpone the ban on smoking because it is supposed to be legal certainty. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Worm.]] – Yes, when it comes to legal certainty, Mr Worm, the law that has been adopted in this House would have to enter into force on the scheduled date. But if the vice chancellor says we're making a referendum on it in 2021, I'm wondering: What legal certainty? They then let the gastronomy float in uncertainty for three more years. I have no idea what you're doing under legal certainty. [[Abg. Worm: Poor speech, Mr. Loacker!]] I have one more question to all those 28 ÖVP delegates who voted in favour of the ban on smoking two years ago: If I earn 8 500 euros in here, Professor Smolle, Gabi Schwarz and many others, am I guilty of the electorate to stand in my mind, or have I had to buy the Courage for 8 500 euros? [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, yes!]] Ask yourself this!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19005	Mrs Martha Bißmann is speaking on behalf of the National Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19023	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear fellow citizens on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Dear FPÖ, I ask for your attention! [[Call to the FPÖ: We are not so sweet at all!]] I now ask you a question: What about your promising direct democracy? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] More co-determination and so on, will this only apply if you are faced with the subject if it is pleasing to you? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Once again, they provide an impressive example of how hypocritical your approach to democracy is. [[Abg. Belakovich: Nothing hypocritical!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: order call!]] The people like to talk, but only if it fits us into the crab. What happened? ==References== December 2017 you, dear ÖVP, and you, dear FPÖ, have jointly decided to tip the non-smoker protection law in the gastronomy. Why did you do this, dear FPÖ? – I suppose to achieve a popularity gain. [[Abg. Gudenus: This is your access!]] In reality, however, the failed client policy is because you have certainly not expected what happened, with this massive resistance from the population. The online petition initiated by the Austrian Cancer Aid has collected 470 000, almost half a million signatures in a few days. [[Abg. Rosary: Then the list of mushrooms in the opinion polls is now so high!]] On the grounds of political misconceptions: People want to talk along, they want to co-form, especially when it comes to their health. It is our duty here in the House, no, it is our duty to listen to the concerned citizens, to listen to them, to give them a voice. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's what we're doing.]] The opposition has closed that call, and she has done something. [[Abg. Belakovich: What?]] Klubobmann Peter Kolba of the list Pilz, Matthias Strolz, Klubobmann of the NEOS, and Pamela Rendi-Wagner have brought this petition to the petition committee. [[Abg. Gudenus: A balled cargo!]] Thank you very much for having been to this committee yesterday. What happened? – FPÖ and ÖVP voted against the assignment to the Health Committee, and thus you have prevented us from discussing this important, emotional, politically high-grade issue in plenary in good time, discussing it, dealing with it. [[Abg. Rosary: What? What are you telling me?]] – By assigning it to the Health Committee, it will become before 1. May, and with that, treats in good time. [[Abg. Rosary: Can I tell your fairy tales to my son, then he sleeps better?- Oh, my God!]] – Whether I tell fairy tales or not, you can judge the audience and the listeners here in the hall. [[Abg. Rosary: Really, that's incredible!]] But it is not only the petition that you disregard and brazen, it is also the popular desire that has already come to the fore several times today, the Don’t-smoke popular desire for which signatures are just being collected. Today in the early morning it had signed 420 000 people, now it is 432,000. 12 000 people today have signed during this session, despite hours of waiting in the municipal offices, despite IT problems in the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Belakovich: It's getting less and less!]] Nevertheless, this popular desire has already reached more than 430 000 votes. [[Abg. Rosary: These 420 000 are already the absolute majority for Austria! That's clear with you.]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] The FPÖ calls this popular desire “unserious” and “politically motivated”. This is really a stupidity, “politically motivated” by SPÖ – the initiators of this popular desire – the Chamber of Doctors Vienna, cancer aid Austria – are renowned independent professionals, politically motivated only by the politicalized public who is willing to take their destiny towards a non-governmental government itself. What you see here is a cry of civil society, that is living democracy, unlike guided democracy, which you would obviously prefer. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list, as well as on SPÖ and NEOS delegates.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gudenus.]] Much has already been said about health today. Mrs. Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein, you have described in your reply impressively what the health consequences of smoking are, even though you have been removed from the question of passive smoking. There is scientific evidence, we have heard this today. You personally are a little sorry that you have to offer such a great intellectual victim in the exercise of your office. They have the task of caring for the health of citizens and really have to do something that does not correspond to that. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Mr. Strache, I can still remember that you were sitting in the election campaign in the TV discussions and took your mouth very full and said: We are certainly not afraid of the people's opinion. [[Abg. Gudenus: We don't have either!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Right! That's it!]] But now in the government the world seems to look quite different. We have experienced this more often than not, and we will experience it even more often. [[Abg. Rosary: No!]] [[Abg. Gudenus: On the contrary!]] – Well, then you agree to the popular survey! People's vote may really be too far, because that's what binds you. [[Abg. Rosary: Is that already completed? Was that already in Parliament?]] – There is a request today, you can agree. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] With your behavior, which you are currently showing, you only prove something that we have always pointed out, you are not the social home party, not at all, you do just so before the election. [[Abg. Belakovich: Who is “we”?]] [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Now we know it!]] A few more sentences on direct democracy: Sebastian Kurzfür has advertised direct democracy in the campaign. He wanted that if 10 percent of the eligible population signed a popular's desire, it would result in a mandatory referendum. The FPÖ has even set the barrier much deeper, you wanted 4 percent. [[Abg. Worm: Was super of us, gal?- Oh, my God!]] Then there should be a binding referendum. And what happened after the election? – You have added the two numbers, made 14 percent of them, and that only from 2022 onwards, when this government will be in the end not only in time, but also in moral terms. [[Abg. Gudenus: Better late than never!]] [[Congratulations on the Pilz list, as well as on SPÖ and NEOS delegates.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What's happening today is still putting on the crown. [[Abg. Rosary: “Heavenly”, “Blessedness”, “Saury”, which already has an orderly tourette syndrome!]] They are submitting an own-initiative proposal aimed at tipping the Non-Smoker Protection Act at the speed of light, without an assessment period, which is common here in Parliament in such important laws. In the Eiltempo you go through, you refuse the material dialogue and hope that people will soon forget it. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] I promise you, fear the voters who do not forget! We, closed as opposition, will also ensure that voters do not forget. [[Abg. Rosary: And I congratulate you on your survey values, because obviously you meet the nerve of the population exactly!]] In conclusion, the two government parties: If you refuse dialogue with the population, we will force you to do so. We are bringing the voices of the people here to Parliament. Mr Strache, let your words follow. You wanted more co-determination, you wanted more direct democracy. I am now symbolically handing you over to the 432,000 voices of the supporters of popular desire. [[Abg. Rosary: Whether that's what all 432,000 wanted?- Oh, my God!]] Thank you for your attention, you were really attentive. I'm excited!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19446	Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19468	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning I would like to correct briefly: Col. Rendi-Wagner did not mention that half of the signatorys are smokers, but half of those she knows personally. That's a difference. [[Abg. Lugar: But she didn't say that!]] And I get a maximum of hunger from a passive pig-bread, but I can get cancer from passive smoking. So that's a difference. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] In any event, this abolition of the ban is a step backwards for Austria, even if it is often ignored here. In many EU countries, it is Usus that smoking is prohibited. In 2004, Ireland was the first country in Europe to introduce the ban on smoking and thus became a model for many countries – but not for the ÖVP/FPÖ government in Austria. The abolition of this ban is due to the total population of Austria, but in particular to the young and small ones in our population. In the black and blue application, there is absolutely nothing to protect the youth from smoking effectively. A abolition of smoking in the gastronomy would take at least one step in the direction that young people are less tempted to smoke. Youths usually start smoking between the ages of 12 and 18 and are influenced by the social environment at that time. Smoking stops in locals have positive effects on the number of teen smokers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 20 percent of the Austrian youth continue to smoke daily, which is more than in all other European countries. [[Abg. Stefan: And that despite the red government so far! We have always celebrated it.]] This is a balance sheet that will not change significantly as long as a comprehensive ban on smoking is not introduced into the gastronomy. [[Abg. Stefan: Such a bad witness do you issue to the red government?]] The Tobago Control Scale states that Austria is in the final place as regards the implementation of effective tobacco control strategies. This includes information campaigns, including weaning offers and smoking bans. [[Abg. Stefan: What has happened so far?]] [[Abg. Rosary: What has the SPÖ failed so far?]] The analysis of various psychologists confirms that young people suffer mainly from group pressure when continuing, as well as smoking. When the friends in the locals smoke, it is certainly harder to dismiss the blue thunder, especially for young people. A smoking ban in the car is certainly very interesting and would mean an improvement for the younger drivers. However, the police themselves note that such a ban would be very difficult to execute. A speed control can be done with the radar gun, but at 140 km/h – depending on whether it will be more or not – on the highway it is difficult to see if someone smokes in the car, and b) whether there may be minors behind the darkened discs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lugar: But it's got to go when you snap it, gal?]] [[Call the FPÖ:And when mobile phone calls too!]] We also lack an important point: In addition to the ban on smoking until 18, prevention and education – which we have heard several times today – are extremely important about the consequences of smoking especially among young people. We have to tell the boys in time why smoking is so harmful and it is best not to start, even in later years. Without education and prevention in school, for example, a ban on the sale of cigarettes is also somehow toothless, you have to say that, and you do not create the appropriate awareness among the boys. Specific active concepts are not on the table! Dear ÖVP, dear FPÖ! Is direct democracy and the numerous signatures of popular desire serious, only right when it comes to children and young people in Austria! Take Ireland and many other countries in the EU as a model! Progress is always better than a step back or a standstill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19599	Mr. Heinz-Christian Strache has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19623	Ladies and gentlemen! First: I apologise for the coldness of my voice. [[Call the SPÖ: This is from smoking! Too much smoking!]] Despite cooling, however, I did not allow myself to be here in the House today and to follow the debate because it is also a matter of appreciation for the House that, even if you are sick, you are fulfilling your task. [[In the case of FPÖ and ÖVP, MEPs of the NEOS and the Agg. Move it.]] Yes, it has been said today very, very much right and also reasonable. [[Abg. Strolz: Thank you!]] Of course, health and prevention – I believe that no one in this House will want to agree on that – are values that are important to all of us. When it comes to health and prevention, we have a responsibility in our society, and the colleague has just said something very right: In the field of prevention, we must begin to draw attention to the dangers that exist in the most diverse areas of our society in time. There are different dangers, including smoking harmful; this is completely out of dispute. In other words, we have the responsibility to inform our children in schools: Please don't start smoking! - That's one. Secondly, we know that if you want to optimize the laws in the field of youth protection in particular, you have a lot to do with national legislation when it comes, for example, to hopefully ensuring that young people reach 18 years of age. Do not be allowed to go to smoking facilities, buy cigarettes et cetera. Much has to be done on the way to regulation. This is necessary and important because, based on the studies, one knows that young people who are up to 18. Year of life did not start smoking, usually no longer smoking. That is why this is the right approach. Yes, smoking is harmful, and we have the responsibility to prevent passive smoking. We have to ensure that non-smokers who do not want to be harassed are not bothered either. - So far, so right. This debate has been very emotional. I have already been a little scared by you, Mr Strolz, because you have been so excited that I almost felt that you were endangering your health and that you are just about to have a heart attack. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But that's not your fault, that's your own responsibility. That's your personal freedom. That's your own freedom of choice that you're lucky to have. And this is completely disregarded in this area, because it is about personal freedom and personal responsibility of every person – just as every human being has the free choice to feed himself unhealthyly if he wants to. We don't have to tell him not to say that the pigbread is unhealthy for you, we forbid it. Of course not! [[Abg. Keck: But it doesn't endanger anyone else!]] This personal responsibility has everyone, including the extreme sportsman, who is at risk of his personal health. The person who lives on drug abuse also has this self-responsibility. [[Abg. Stroll: This is not the same as passive smoking! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] And the smoker who makes the free choice to take a cigarette also has this personal freedom of choice. That's what it's all about! The issues are self-reliance, self-determination, civil liberties and also the property rights of the host. These areas, these values have left you to the left today. That's exactly what it's all about: Where does the freedom of individuals remain when they are constantly trying to state everything by compulsory regulations, to regulate everything with commandments and bans? This is not the free society I wish for, Mr Strolz! That is exactly the crucial point. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs Rendi-Wagner, you have rightly said today that you have changed laws. – Yes, there has been a situation years ago that the gastronomy, each individual, has invested thousands of euros in the operation, so that the good compromise found can be lived, namely to ensure legal non-smoking protection for non-smokers and on the other hand to offer closed smoking areas to smokers, where no one is forced to go from the non-smoker area to the smoking area. [[Abg. Gudenus: millions!]] That was a good compromise. At that time, the gastronomy invested, and then they are not given legal certainty and come here in 2015 and say that now we want to go to the coffee shop, to go to the biscuit for the total ban on smoking – that is, for those who want to smoke a cigarette at a coffee or a beer from a joy after work – for many the last pleasure. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and NEOS.]] No, they are not even granted this freedom after work. That is exactly the crucial point. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Non-smoker protection and freedom of choice are no contradiction at all. It is precisely this compromise that both sides of course have their freedom of choice and no one is bothering the other, no one is at risk to the other health. On the contrary! That is what the citizens expect of us, away from emotional and polemic debates. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So, of course, the different opinions must be taken seriously. Every opinion is important, every single opinion is important. I also have my opinion, I also have my position. All the opinions and positions that we are discussing are, of course, not only permitted in democracy, but also legitimate, and they are also to be discussed objectively. I am in favour of the citizens having this personal freedom to make the free choice in the future, starting with the gastronomy, who is to be able to say in his property in which he has invested: I want no smoking in my locals, it's supposed to be a non-smoking place. – Then it’s good, it’s the decision of the host and gastronomy. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Workers' Protection!]] Or the gastronomy says: In addition to the non-smoking areas required by law, I would like to offer my customers a smoking area, so that the guest has the free choice that has free choice where he wants to sit. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Workers' Protection, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! There's no passive boar food!]] What is the reality today? – The reality is that in the hotels, for example, 99 percent of non-smoking areas exist. But the hotel has the possibility to offer a small smoking lounge. They're trying to ban that! You want to ban that, you say: Get out on the street! You do not need to be afraid that her - - smoking is unhealthy, at some point there is a risk of being sick and perhaps even having lung cancer, no question, but at the outside temperatures you die of pneumonia! [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: We want to protect, not forbid!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: The truth is, you're whistling at workers!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Cynicism! Cynicism!]] [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: This is cynical!]] You have to think about it before. A total ban on smoking in the gastronomy means -
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19850	Mr Vice-Chancellor is speaking, please. You'll be happy to report.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19865	A total ban on smoking would mean: The smokers stand in front of the locals, they generate noise, people are harassed. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Passive noise, or what?]] The authorities then, as happened in Vienna in recent years, are listening to fines on the gastronomy. This goes so far that some of the gastronomians have even been set in advance of the 4 o'clock in the morning at 12 o'clock midnight and locals have been locked up! What is this solution? That's not a solution! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] There must be an attempt, together with all those concerned, to be fair to everyone. This must be the responsibility we all have as political leaders. Every opinion and position must be valued and, if possible, addressed to everything. That's exactly what we're trying to do with this law. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: 500 000 Austrians!]] By the way, a small historical detail: Smoker culture is an ancient, over 1,000 years old, everyone knows it. Interestingly, however, it was created in Vienna under Metternich. He was excited at the time that the population had gone smoking through the streets of Vienna and thus the public image was really a terrible one. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Do you have the Metternich, or what? I believed the kickl is the metric!]] He suggested that it would be a pleasure to open the coffee house culture to the possibility that lousy people there would have the opportunity to smoke a cigarette or a cigar at a good coffee and come into conversation with each other. Believe me, this also has a social aspect! What do you think about how many people there are in Austria – you may laugh at them – who are lonely, who do not have a family who do not have friends and go to the beesl to find a connection there with other people in a cigarette, with a beer, with a good white sprayer communication! Ask the host! Ask the gastronomy! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] You have also addressed Germany today, but you have not said that 13 out of 16 German states have our current law and no general ban on smoking. 3 000 gastronomers in Bavaria have locked up after the introduction of the total ban on smoking, and countless workers have been sent to unemployment. You didn't say that either. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'll finish. Yes, we take direct democracy seriously. I ask you: How has the SPÖ been dealing with direct democracy all decades since the Second Republic existed? How did you deal with popular desires that signed over a million people? [[Abg. Lausch: Schublaiert! First class funeral!]] That's what you said: Eight million have not signed! – That was your cynical answer back then. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: (in the direction of SPÖ) Shame on you!]] We have therefore established one in the government programme: a constitutional amendment to ensure that in the future direct democracy will become a right of the people and will not depend on you or on us. The people shall have the right to decide and enforce it. This is a milestone in democracy and direct democracy. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say to you: With popular desire I have no problem at all, I look forward to it. It shows that direct democracy is well accepted. 400,000 signatures are less than 500 000 of those who signed this petition against the ban on smoking years ago. [[Abg. Plessl: These are statements of support!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Now really last sentence: I have no problem with ensuring and making possible a vote after the popular desire, which has not even begun.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20018	Mr Gabriel Obernosterer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20042	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have presented the problem in full detail, I believe. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] To Mr Strolz's contribution from the Freeman – ah, from the NEOS! – I have to say the following: [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Haider: He or we did not deserve that!]] We all know about the issue. We all know about the seriousness of this issue, and I am just expecting a group leader to have the debate on it in a matter of fact. Mr. Strolz, I just got a text message. You know what one wrote to me – and there the Gaudi stops with me: If you vote now, I wish you a lung cancer and that you die of it!? - You can read that. Citing in the text message, your speech will be out here. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] The host, in whose restaurants you can still smoke in the future, to assume that they are responsible for the many dead caused by smoking, I just don't think that's okay and not right. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I am an innkeeper and a hoteler myself, I know this problem. [[Abg. Loacker: Even decided two years ago!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – Can you listen to me? – I am a smoker myself, my wife is non-smokers, I also know these conflicts between my wife and me. [[Abg. Strolz: You are here as a politician and not as a husband!]] I know smoking's not healthy. Unfortunately, I have started and never had the will to stop. But I also know one thing: where to learn to smoke and where people smoke. There is still the possibility with us today to smoke in locals – not only with us but in 15 countries of Europe – but if you say that the hosts are guilty, then that is not correct. Let's stick to the subject matter! Smokers go to smoking sites and non-smokers go to non-smoking locations! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] That's what I'm asking myself: Where is the legislation at the club's venues? Many innkeepers switch to a non-smoking site, and do you know what happens outside the village? – After the sample, the club people stay in the club’s room and drink their beer and smoke there. Why are you allowed to do it there? Explain this to me once! [[Abg. Rosary: What are the Bobos supposed to know about a village?]] Now we're really going to the subject matter. It is said again and again that Austria is with this smoking law the ashtrays of Europe. We have an existing non-smoker law. This existing non-smokers law is certainly not the hardest in Europe, but it is not one of the most liberal. [[Abg. Stroll: Why do the weldehals? Why do the Wendehals? I don't understand! Resist better knowledge!]] As the Vice-Chancellor said: The law text – the time is too short, otherwise I could read it out – from Baden-Württemberg corresponds to 1 : 1 of our non-smoker protection law. Then I'll ask you: Have you once looked at the law that should have entered into force instead of the one that remains? – In the hotel industry it is possible to set up smoking lounges and cigar lounges, and in the gastronomy this is not possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]] Where's the justice? And then the hoteler's association goes here and signs a non-smoker's law. So let's stay here with the materiality! [[Abg. Loacker: You decided the law!]] The Youth Protection Act is being intensified, and up to 18 years you must not enter it, which is the same as in the case of strong drinks. Against something I refuse by all means: We have two locals at home; I don't need a law to explain the target group of my guests, going to whether I'm a smoker's room or a non-smoker's room. Then you can ask me what kind of local we have at home. We also have a guest house, not just a hotel. [[Abg. Kucher: Staff...?]] – Staff protection is - - Mr. Colleague, you are such a thing from far away from reality, but such from far away from reality! [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[Call the FPÖ:Right! That's it!]] We have 70 employees, and if I have a service, a staff member says: In the smoking area I do not serve!, then he does not need to serve there because we are glad that we have even employees. You're so far away from reality, so far away! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] No host, no hoteler will force an employee to serve in the smoking area. There's no such thing as that! Bring me the one who does this! [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Schellhorn, you're the next speaker, tell me what's true! - Thank you many times. [[Abg. Schellhorn: I'm coming!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20267	The next speaker is not Mr Schellhorn, but Mr Christian Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20288	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! This is now, in part, a bizarre discussion that we are having. I'd like to do a little replica on some of the previous speakers now. Mr Klubobmann Kolba, I would like to remind you – and I would remind you of what you have given here – that you want to vote by name and secret. How this is supposed to go, is missing from my knowledge and from our knowledge. You should work in the Rules of Procedure a little bit better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kolba.]] It is not quite possible to vote in secret by name and at the same time, it does not work so well; but so the mushrooms are held. By the way, the mask today in the early morning suited you very well – I just wanted to note that – that is, the one of our Minister of the Interior Herbert Kickl. Mrs Rendi-Wagner, you have said that it is a very emotional discussion; You sometimes feel that it is a play of smokers against non-smokers – yes, but you are responsible for that! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have experienced this in the last few days and weeks with this uninteresting popular desire, and we take direct democracy and popular opinion seriously, of course. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] It is also true that this popular desire is, of course, used as a party political force in order to get over our Republic with your positions. Hand at heart – even if you shake your head now –: It is! A previous speaker has already said it: What is best for social democracy is to ban, to create as unspeakable, uncritical citizens as possible, and to remove the money from the pants you really don't have to spend it elsewhere. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: To protect the health, that is the task!]] The social democracy is characterised by this, ladies and gentlemen. You have become a Prohibition Party! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Obernosterer is right when he speaks of being so far away from reality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Crist.]] Our vice chancellor gave this to himself in very impressive words: It is simply a question of freedom of choice. Play You don't smoke and don't smoke, because next you'll play the pig-breadnessers and the vegans or the vegetarians against each other! [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: That's what you're playing! You're playing!]] It's not okay what you're doing here. The position of the Freedom Party is quite clear: We stand for freedom of choice. I find it interesting that the NEOS, the so-called liberals – at Klubobmann Strolz, I would sometimes love to take out the Duracell batteries behind you, which sometimes did not harm the High House – that you, as a liberal party, also mutate into a ban party. [[Abg. Stroll: I'll take something out of you!]] You don't think that's good for you, either. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As I said, Freedom of choice, freedom is our highest good. We don't need unmistakable, uncritical citizens. They know what's good, and they should be able to do it. I would like to explain our position again: We are in favour of continuing the existing solution with a strengthening of non-smoker protection, non-smoker regulations, for example, from 18th century onwards. For example, we want to ensure a strict ban on smoking in the car, where we know that passive smoking is partly more dangerous for inmates than in the so-called innhouses. [[Abg. Knes: Is that not a ban?- Oh, my God!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Prohibition Party!]] That's what we want to do. On the other hand, we want to ensure the freedom of choice of consumers and the hostess, namely, that a smoker – and this has also brought Obernosterer absolutely to the point – will usually go to a smoking room and a non-smoker, as I am by the way, will visit a non-smoker local. However, this is entirely in the hands of consumers, but also of the host, because the host should ultimately decide in what direction they operate – towards non-smokers' premises, smoker's premises, or use the current regulations with their own areas. One last word on direct democracy; it has already been said a lot, I also insist: We attach great importance to direct democracy. Our Vice-Chancellor has said it again today and clearly so that it will finally understand all journalists, editors and also the left half of the Reich. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes]] We will evaluate the popular desire after completion and are at least positive towards a binding poll or even a referendum. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Then you don't have to tip it now!]] We will at least look at this, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20439	Next speaker: Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20463	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated Minister! If I listen to the speeches made by the government parties, including your speeches, Mr Vice-Chancellor, Mrs Minister, then I am actually aware of the quotation made by Ludwig Thoma: The majority samma, but the leaves a. [[Cheerfulness and applause with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In that respect, it is no different to justify...
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20494	Mr Schellhorn. – If you listen to me briefly, I tell you that there is the association in the house that even quotations that affect the dignity of the house are not used. [[Abg. Schellhorn: That's a quote!]] That means it's not a good trick to try on quotations. That is why I ask you to take this back and go back into the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20522	I don't think it's particularly intelligent when you argue as you did. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Madam President!]] I would like to come back to that, Mrs Minister - - – I cannot say that either, can I? [[Abg. Worm: That's incredible! Madam President.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's a kilnauer.]] If I may continue, Madam Minister, you have argued that non-smokers protection is to be seen as a ban on hospitality. [[Abg. New builder: Take this back!]] [[Abg. Rosary: What do you say as an outsider about intelligence?]] I don't know where you're going on vacation – perhaps Germania or in some other place, I don't know – but so you really can't assume that this can be used as a tourist attraction to travel to Austria on vacation – or you might want a new job at the ÖW, but that's not how it works. [[Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein: Please?]] This is not the norm and it is not asked at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The exact opposite is the case. If you would find out at the ÖHV or at a preliminary organisation of the ÖVP how many complaints are about smoking in the hotels in Austria, you would therefore also have a clear argument as to why this extension is so pointless. [[Abg. Rosary: Which hotelier is forced to smoke with him?]] On what you said about passive smoking and freedom: Mr Vice-Chancellor, I did not notice this morning when it came to the Trojan, that you were there for the freedom of citizens. They have been more for the restriction of citizens. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] [[Federal Minister Strache: This is protection!]] – No, that is not a protection, the Trojan is not a protection, and it is not a protection, Mr Vice-Chancellor, it is not a protection - - – please let me speak out! – Yes, then never write that it was a bomb, what you said. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] [[Abg. Rosary: That's right! Victims belong to prison! In this way, this freedom is really limited!]] [[Abg. Rosary: So seen, yes!]] - Mm-hmm. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Another point about the colleague Obernoster – I think he has said this: The new law, Mr Obernosterer, even provides that no smoking is allowed in the clubs. How can I imagine that then? Is that what the police are doing and what they're doing? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the list of mushrooms.]] How do you want to do that? How's it going? How do you want to control all that you're now propagating on very thin ice here because you've made an election promise – for the host around the corner? It is harmful for tourism to have this law. We must make a clear commitment to this, perhaps to the host of the corner, but that does not have any touristic aspects, Mrs Minister. [[Abg. Rosary: That's nothing worth it to you! That's nothing worth it to you!]] In this respect, it is already very significant when Mr Höbart speaks of pig bread. [[Abg. Worm: Say the hoteler!]] I take the pigbread to myself, personally, here, and excre it again. [[Abg. Höbart: We don't want to know that much!]] I have to close the use of tobacco to others, and that's the fact. This is where passive health damage takes place, which is why the risk is accordingly high. You should consider that, and never start it with the sport, never justify it with the pigbread or alcohol! – Should I quote Ludwig Thoma again? [[Abg. New builder:... release of cannabis...!]] [[Abg. Rosary: No one has forced me yet to smoke passively!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20802	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Although intermediate calls belong to a lively debate, I would nevertheless ask the speaker or the speaker to pay more attention. [[Abg. Neubauer: Did he take it back?]] Mr Wolfgang Zinggl, Member of the European Parliament, spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20875	I do not want to go into the subject at all now. The various speeches and, in particular, the answers of the Minister to the urgent questions have shown that there really is no reason here and that the withdrawal of these protection provisions in the restaurants is not only simple, but also evil and beyond at the same time. With the exception of Mr Lugar, I do not think anyone can really explain why these protection provisions can be lifted and why a government is running so hard against the wall. Political science is facing a great mystery. I remember that some political scientists argued during the coalition negotiations that this is about nebula grenades and smoke bombs, so that a wall is built in front of other differences and is diverted from these differences in the government groups; but now these government fractions are making serious. They really do this, so they don't really do it, and it's kind of hard to see how the same Members argued for these protection regulations in 2015 and now vote against it, as if the conditions had changed and smoking would be healthier now. There's no way that's going to work out at all. What's going on? How can this button be resolved in the head of the individual Members? – In the “Kurier” yesterday was a very interesting article about this. The ÖVP actually has only one argument, which is almost elucidating: They adhere to the coalition agreement, i.e. Pact fidelity. – Well, we've heard everything possible anyway, you can judge it differently. But what about the FPÖ? – Three arguments are mentioned on the part of the FPÖ. The first argument is that they adhere to the Coalition Pact and to the agreements with the government partner. So both call it an argument, so to speak, why they are now against these safeguards, that they adhere to the Government Pact, and no one knows exactly why. Who wrote that in? Why has this been written in? – This has not yet been explained. The second reason for the FPÖ is: We're going to have to make an election. There too I have to say: An election promise must have been given with a statement of reasons. The only reason is the third reason that sounds somehow understandable: It is the freedom of choice and the freedom of the individual. Well, then, the FPÖ is not very much in favour of freedom of choice, ladies and gentlemen. For example, what would this look like in connection with the enjoyment of cannabis? Would you be there for the individual's freedom of choice? Or what about the freedom of choice of homosexuals if they want to have the same right in marriage? [[Congratulations with list Pilz, SPÖ and NEOS.]] So you can't prove these freedom of choice, and you're not credible. There is no reason at all for an irresponsible law. I don't know what you're all riding from the government groups; political science gives up, it's now referring to the psychologists and the therapists. Let's see what's going on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20929	The next item is Mrs Irene Hochstetter-Lackner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20954	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The will of the people is the only legitimate basis for any government. – Thomas Jefferson already raised the issue of today’s discussion some 200 years ago. What the current black and blue Federal Government is doing in the field of non-smokers protection is precisely the opposite. They dare to ignore the will of the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen. They negate the voices of nearly half a million people, more precisely of 432,000 people. Mr Vice-Chancellor, we do not want to forbid you to smoke, but I personally would like to remind you of your role: You have an example for all children in this country, and I would also like to remind you of this role in this vote today. [[Call the FPÖ: He doesn't vote!]] I've been wondering for days: Why? Why are you scared, and what? As a Carinthian, I have been surrounded for years by countries where non-smoker protection is very high and smoking is prohibited in the locals. Nevertheless, they are all very hospitable, Mrs Minister, I can also tell you, and I can assure you that the Carinthians are very, very happy to consume their coffee in Italy or in Slovenia. I even claim that many Carinthians do not prefer to drink their coffee in Austria, but rather beyond the border, even in the deepest winter, because after that they simply do not smell. [[Abg. Belakovich: After this is an argument!]] Is this distortion of competition your protection for the local gastronomy? – The gastronomy in Italy has created a new business model with the total ban on smoking. The ashtray in front of the local has become a new social meeting place, and even as a mother of two quirky daughters, I like to stand outdoor with my coffee, although I am non-smokers. So the fear of losing sales in tourism should be quite easy to side by side. If we use Bavaria as an example, the experiences speak for themselves. For seven years there has been the ban on smoking and the gastronomy is not a loss of sales, but an increase in sales throughout the world. Not even the local gastronomy you have behind, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ. Also in my hometown, in Villach, some locals have deliberately decided to pay attention to the health of the employees and to the health of their customers, and have become pioneers by being voluntarily smoke free for some time. Overall, it is in Klagenfurt and in Villach already over 60 locals who take responsibility and have introduced a smoking ban. I would like to lead the Gatternig guesthouse in Villach for many, many locals. I just think it's great that they took the first step there and that they didn't regret it until today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is also an initiative in Salzburg, and that even under an ÖVP State Council for Health, that the gastronomy becomes smoke-free, and that is good that way. [[Abg. Svazek: It was smoke-free before!]] It is good for the employees, because one must be aware of all of us here: Employees cannot simply choose their job that way, they depend on it. And, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – because this is what you have done – these employees are not the highest paid employees in this country. The employees we are talking about here are those who do not necessarily have the best KV, and they cannot choose their jobs at Weitem. The employer's legal obligation to take care of it alone should be the basis enough to make the working environment as healthy as possible for workers. I would like to conclude with the words of a journalist whom you all know, with the words of Kurt Kuch. Unfortunately, he died in 2015, and after that he would certainly have liked to do away with any smoked cigarette. Kurt Kuch said in an interview on the question of what his first thought after the diagnosis of lung cancer was: That I will never experience the matura of my daughter, her first friend, let alone her wedding. I would like to give this particular thought to those 28 representatives of the ÖVP who voted in favour of non-smokers protection in 2015 and who will now be under the obligation and under the pressure of the new People's Party under Sebastian to oppose non-smokers protection. I'm appealing to you here and today: Think about your grandchildren in all your decisions, think about your children, and above all think about your lungs!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21023	Mr Hans-Jörg Jenewein is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21044	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! It's really amazing, which emotions come up here on such a theme and which style flowers it then drives in part. I wrote out a few quotes: Mr. Kucher makes fun of ghost drivers here and does not consider that there have been over 400 ghost drivers in Austria last year, some of which have caused fatal accidents. But that's funny, we're making fun of it, of course, it's funny. The former and elected Minister of Health Rendi-Wagner criticises an own-initiative proposal – which this House can only decide here in the next session. Perhaps one should also deal with the habits of this house: Today, the proposal has only been submitted, and it comes first to the committee; that is, today we do not decide at all. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Was that for Gudenus now? Because he's wrong yesterday...!]] [[Abg. Gudenus:...! It's like at school!]] Regardless of that, she criticises an initiative proposal and criticises that this House is self-confidence enough to take part in the legislative process itself. This is also a remarkable access. But, Mr Schieder, your primitive agitation, which you have been here all day, especially as the - -
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21094	Mr. Jenewein! You start your speech by wondering that this debate is being held so emotionally – and then you will contribute to it with your choice of words. I ask you to be moderate in your expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21121	Madam President. I thank you for teaching me. But I wish, please, that there is no teaching from the President'spoule. If you want to give me an order call, then do it – otherwise, please nice, let me continue! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If you would listen further, without permanently incubating anything here, which no man understands in this House anyway, then you should also take Mr Strolz's statements to the chest. I wrote out three quotes. Mr Strolz literally said that we are “consciously buying the dead. ” [[Abg. Stroll: Yes!]] He has literally said, “They choose to die, ”“ they put party policy tactics on death. ” [[Abg. Stroll: Yes! Thank you for repeating!]] – This is Mr Strolz, whose party in 2014 took cannabis legalization into its programmatics and who, for the 2017 National Council election, defined personal responsibility in terms of health lifestyles in his programme, which, of course, includes all drugs. [[Abg. Stroll: That's not true!]] That is the Lord's pride! I have not heard anything about Mr Strolz's agitation either. Do you know what a scandal is? – Really is a scandal with which elitist arrogance one is permanently confronted here: Everything is better known – better than the stupid politicians, the stupid federal government, the stupid consumers, the stupid smokers. [[Call the FPÖ:The Jarolim!]] You know everything better! Do you know – in conclusion to replicate Mr Strolz – that you gave us something at the end of your remarks, namely that our decision – as has been said – does not take place today, but there is an assignment to the Committee – would be a shame to Parliament. Mr Strolz! Your speech today is a disgrace to parliamentarianism, and you have become an intolerable burden with these quotations which you have given of yourself today. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You should come out and apologize! That would be appropriate.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21219	Mr. Jenewein, for the statement to the Bureau: "Bringing in what no man understands," I give you a call for order. [[Call to the FPÖ: What was that for?]] [[Abg. Neubauer: What's an order call, please?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: This is inconceivable! If you're overwhelmed, put it back!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We continue in the debate. Mrs Cornelia Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21292	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! As the last speaker, I try to summarize this emotional debate once again, and I also try to get the emotions out of it. Ladies and gentlemen – and also for the spectators – as SPÖ, we are concerned that the no-velle decided by SPÖ and ÖVP together in 2015 will be maintained for non-smokers protection. To be honest, I do not understand this zigzag course of the ÖVP, Mr Obernosterer. They voted in favour in 2015 and vote against today. This zigzag course is simply not understandable. They give the impression that this government is not capable of reform. Black-blue ignores the will of the population, the more than 430 000 Austrians who have already signed Don’t Smoke popular desire. [[Abg. Rosary: These are not even all SPÖ voters of the last election!]] [[Abg. Lausch: Other popular desires were more successful!]] According to media reports, your party colleagues from the ÖVP Reinhold Mitterlehner and Erwin Pröll have also signed. Looks like the new style that hosts, that doctors, that all nine heads of state – all nine heads of state! – who are in favour of a ban on smoking, and are being passed on by this government? Just the FPÖ has always pleaded for direct democracy in the last legislative period – I was there myself and was able to observe it many times. That's good. [[Abg. Rosary: This has failed your resistance until now!]] But here at this point you act against it, freely according to the motto: Direct democracy, yes, and good, but if it doesn't fit us, then it won't. [[Abg. Rosary: Wrong! Wrong! Didn't you listen?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, I am speaking on behalf of you. I am looking at exactly how the referendum is going, and I am going to see exactly how you act. The ÖVP with its pig-cancer Brief looks forward to doing so. It seems that the pursuit of power seems to be more important in the government than the pursuit of responsibility. Many gastronomy companies, especially from my state of Salzburg, are not satisfied with this step back and have great displeasure. At this point I would like to quote a guest from an in-local in Salzburg, especially you, Mrs Health Minister, who said: “I can’t believe it, the whole world will be smoke-free, only Austria not.” – I could call you numerous top gastronists who share this opinion. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! We didn't ban the hospitality. This is how 85 Salzburg gastronists volunteered to join the voluntary initiative. In addition, I would like to give you a study on the way forward, a study by a listener who is now following this debate here in the House. There 28 locals were examined for fine dust. [[Abg. Wheeler: We know!]] The fine dust load in non-smokers and non-smokers areas has a load of up to 110 000 fine dust particles per cubic centimeter. For comparison: In a non-smoking area, the load is about 5,000 fine dust particles. – Mrs Minister, you can have this study. Peter Tappler and environmentalist Hans-Peter Hutter did this. I'd like to make them available to you. In this sense, I would like to stress once again: One third of cancers are due to smoking and would be avoidable. Each year, 13,000 people die from the effects of smoking. It's just sad. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! In your answer to the question, you refer to the “grassy ” law -
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21380	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the speaking time of your group has been exhausted, and I ask you to come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21395	The consequences of tobacco consumption are terrible and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21423	Mr David Lasar has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21447	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! We've heard a lot today. I didn't want to say anything to myself, but I just can't. Mrs Rendi-Wagner! Mrs. Colleague! Do you even know what you've done today? [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I don't want to list it individually now. It was: “Ash Cups of Europe” – not only you, but others have said that too – I heard the word hypocritical today. [[Abg. Drozda: I'm afraid!]] - Yes, right, terrible. And you know why? – Please go 300 meters – or 500 meters, it's a little further – to the town hall. There you have made vis-à-vis from the municipal council hall a smoking salon, you as social democrats. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You can smoke there, you can't see a millimeter there! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Wöger.]] And here you're raining?! – Yes, dear opposition, you do not know what kind of subject you should put on. This is the only subject that has been left with you now. Go over, look at this! It's a public building. There has always been a councillor for social and health. You, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, are being traded over there as a new SPÖ councillor! Oh, you don't want to because there's a smoking chamber there? That's why we're going. You probably don't go over. - So that's your opposition policy. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Addressed to NEOS: There you meet at every municipal council meeting! – Yes, grab [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] You're just going there, that's right. [[Abg. Arbitrators: There is no serving there! It's not a local!]] – What does: reserved? This is a public - - – – Mr Schieder, this is a public building! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Served!]] And if you still don't know, I'll tell you again, because you don't know anything anymore in recent times, you can't smoke in a public building – if you don't know yet. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] - Yeah, it's okay. I also know that you know yourself well on the subway – I know it – although you don't even know where the next subway station is; that's the next one. You know yourself well everywhere, but maybe you don't know one yet. [[Abg. Arbitrators: There is the right one to speak.]] –Yes, I am non-smokers, believe me! [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: No, I mean when I recognize it!]] You know what else I want to say: In Carinthia – now there are country elections in Carinthia, and one has to imagine that – what is your group spreading there? - Firecrafts! - Well, that's it! And here you want to vote against democracy. So, in truth, all of them scrambled over a comb: Genuine yourselves for what you said today! [[Welcoming the FPÖ and Deputies Wöginger, Nehammer and Rädler.]] We live direct democracy in this House, ladies and gentlemen. We also have democratic votes on something that you do not even create in your own town hall, which you have been populating over there for 70 years with social democracy, namely that you do not smoke there. [[Abg. Höbart: But not for long!]] Take this perhaps to the occasion to go inside, and make reasonable opposition policy in the future! I'm telling you honestly, that was just nothing today.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21607	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21628	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs Health Minister! Mr Lasar, perhaps shortly ahead, just so as not to let you down: You can also light a candle with a lighter, you don't have to light a cigarette, but you can do that, of course. [[lively ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] So you have to admit to the FPÖ that it has remained in her opinion. You were always against the smoking ban from FPÖ, you are still against the smoking ban, and you can find that good or bad, you can have better or worse arguments for it or against it. What interests me, however, is – and for that the parliamentary debate is actually there – to hear the arguments as to why someone changes his opinion in this regard. There are now 28 Members of the ÖVP sitting here, and I have only heard something from Mr Obernoster. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] – No, I am not worried, Mrs.cky, I would just like to know where your opinion is from. [[Abg. Rosary: The Mitterlehner is no longer there!]] But I did not hear it, I only heard the colleague Obernoster. I do not know, perhaps the voters of August Wöginger in the constituency also want to know why he changed his opinion, or those of Mr Haubner. For all those who are new, this question does not arise in this form – Mr Nehammer has perhaps always had this opinion, I do not know – but for all those who voted in favour at the time, such as Mrs Steinacker, Mr Hammer – I do not know Karlheinz, perhaps he did not agree, because he was just chairing, I have not researched it now – Mr Strasser – why have you changed your opinion on it? - or colleague Lopatka. That's what's not comprehensible. You can be against the ban on smoking, that is legitimate. I don't understand, but I think it's legitimate. [[Abg. Little: That's all in the media...!]] – You already said it in the media? Then, obviously, I have read the wrong media; I am sorry, Mrs Minzig. However, in the parliamentary process, it would also be important to get out of here and say why two years ago we voted for the ban on smoking and suddenly no longer voted for it. For this there may be factual reasons and reasonable reasons, I just don't know them. The only reason I've heard is: The FPÖ wanted this and the FPÖ has always said so, and now you are subjected to the coalition force. And the second reason is this untold force of clubs. That is what hurts me so much: that 28 Members said two years ago, yes, we are in favour of an absolute ban on smoking in the gastronomy, and two years later 28 MEPs of the ÖVP who said yes, we are in favour of an absolute ban on smoking in the gastronomy, which is obviously no longer allowed to say. The worst thing was – that really irritated me –: When Mr Smolle was called by a journalist or a journalist and asked how he was going to vote, he said that you must not ask me to ask the press department of the ÖVP. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS.]] - Seriously! It's in the paper today. That's really a problem. You may be for or against the ban on smoking, but if you turn your opinion by 180 degrees within two years – the FPÖ has always remained the same, that is legitimate – then it would be, I believe, also important that you find out here and explain what the factual reasons are for you to change your mind accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21705	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Strolz, ladies and gentlemen, on the implementation of a popular survey on a general ban on smoking in gastronomy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr.in Rendi-Wagner, ladies and gentlemen, on 'no evasion of the ban on smoking in gastronomy'. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing the same thing. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of Dr.in Rendi-Wagner's motion for a resolution to vote in favour of 'Yes' vote, those who vote against 'No' vote. Please note that it should only be one of those polls. I now ask Mr Preiner's author to start the call for name; Mr Gahr will replace him later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21786	The vote is now over. I would ask that the votes be counted and that the sitting be suspended for this purpose. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21826	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 176; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 68, No votes: 108. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rendi-Wagner is therefore rejected. [[By way of derogation from the announcement of the vote by President Bures, the actual vote result is as follows: votes cast: 175, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 67, ‘No’ votes: 108.]] According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Androsch, Antoni; Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Bernhard, Bißmann, Bures; Cox; Double farmer, Drozda Thomas, Duzdar Muna; Ecker, einwallner, Erasim; Feichtinger Elisabeth, Feichtinger Klaus Uwe, Friedl; Gamon Claudia, Greiner Karin, Griss Irmgard; Hammerschmid, Heinisch-Hosek, Hochstetter-Lackner, Holzleitner, Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff; Keck, Kern, Knes, Kolba, Kollross, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kovacevic, Krainer Kai Jan, Krisper, Krist Hermann, Kucher Philip, Kuntzl; Laimer, Leichtfried, Lindner Mario, Loacker, Lueger Angela; Margreiter, Muchitsch; Noll, walnut; Plessl, Preiner Erwin; Rendi-Wagner, Rossmann; Sandler, Treasure, Scherak, Scherak, Arbitrator, Stäger Alois, Strolz; By; sub-railers; Vogl; Wimmer, Wittmann; Yildirim, Yılmaz; Zadić Alma, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amesbauer, Amon Werner, Angerer; Baumgartner, Belakovich Dagmar, Berger, Berlakovich Nikolaus, Bösch, Brückl; Deimek, Diesner-wais, Dönmez; Engelberg, Eßl; Fichtinger Angela, Fürlinger, Prince; Gahr, Gerstl, Gerstner, Gödl, Count Martin, Count Tanja, Grand Bauer, Grünberg, Gudenus; Hafenecker, Haider, Hammer Michael, Haubner, Hauser, Himmelbauer, Höbart, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Hörl; Jachs, Jeitler-Cincelli, Jenewein; Kainz, Kaniak, Kassinger, Kaufmann, Kirchbaumer, Kitzmüller, Klinger Wolfgang, Kopf, Krenn, Kugler Gudrun, Kühberger Andrea, Kumpitsch, Kuss-Bergner Angelika; Lasar, Lausch, Lettenbichler, Linder Maximilian, Lindinger, Lintl, Lopatka, Lugar Robert; Mahrer, Marchetti, Mölzer, Mühlberghuber; Nehammer, Neubauer, Niss Maria Theresia; Obernosterer, Ottenschlager; Pewny, Plasolm, Povysil, Prince; Rädler, Ragger, Rauch, Riemer, Ries Christian, Rosenberger, Rosenkranz; Schandor, Schimanek, black, black, black, Singer Norbert, Smodics-Neumann, Smolle, Sobotka, Stark, Stefan, Steinacker, Strasser, Svazek; Tashner, Tschank; Wagner, Aquarius, Weiding, Little, Weaving, Worm; Singer Wolfgang, Zarits Christoph. [[17:52:24]] 9. Point First reading: Request by Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Procurement Act 2006 (54/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22040	That's what we're going to get to the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, spoke first. I give you the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22070	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! Ladies and gentlemen. It is a pleasure for me to be able to address an important topic here today in my first speech, which is also an important topic for me personally and a matter of heart. This request, which is available to you, is aimed at improving the quality of passenger transport. Unfortunately, from my point of view, the current government programme is a bit contrary to the EU standards that are being presented to us. In concrete terms, the EU Commission has clearly stated in 2014 that a Europe-wide public transport call should be the regular case, that the direct award of public contracts should be the exception and that this should be implemented as soon as possible. – Unfortunately, however, it is still not really foreseeable that the government will take the initiative. Why are such calls so important to us? – On the one hand, they clearly bring an increase in the individual benefit, we have seen this again and again in the example of the western route. There it is that the company Westbahn entered the competition a few years ago and brought Wi-Fi to many users, for example, which was an extreme advantage for users on this route; only a little later did ÖBB retrace. This clearly shows that competition also leads to progress and innovation in these areas – and we are not even talking about the many small companies that are also entering this market. There are now, for example, RegioJet on the line Vienna–Prag that will occur. This will also bring more quality on this route, will bring more individual benefits and, of course, further incentives to create jobs and further strengthen the economic location as a whole. But also for our budget, this competition is beneficial, we see that in Germany: In Germany, in our beautiful neighbouring country, all orders are announced, there is no direct award carried out, and in Germany this has led to savings of 30 percent for the taxpayer, for the public hand. I am already aware that Austria and Germany cannot compare 100 percent of rail transport – there are various differences – but there are calculations that say that there would also be a cost savings of 193 million euros per year. It is almost 200 million euros that we would save in our debt backpack, and just a government that is looking at the zero deficit for the next few years and that wants to minimize debt slowly, should it be a concern to do something too? I am aware that this request is only a first step, and therefore I am also very pleased to be working on it in committee, together with you, ladies and gentlemen, and to see that we are finding the best possible tendering procedure to increase quality in order to increase individual benefits and, of course, to relieve taxpayers. In this sense: Let us give competition a chance, let us give innovation a chance and create the necessary framework conditions! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22121	Next, Mr Andreas Ottenschlager spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22145	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! You will not be surprised at the fact that I can befriend the discussion about more competition on the rails, and I would also like to remind the then Director-General Christian Kern here, who himself, when he was head of the ÖBB, has always said that the competition has done quite well for the company ÖBB, for example on the west line. In this context, I think, all of us are essentially united in one goal, namely that we want to achieve the best possible performance for our customers with as little financial means as possible. I believe that the objective is in principle consistent with us. While we will also have an interesting and exciting discussion in the Committee, I would just like to say that you, my dear colleague, have said that you do not yet see much or contradiction in the government programme, that there is no doubt that we are planning the following: a 'preparation for competition in cross-regional rail connections: Development of a plan of action for the gradual introduction of competition procedures for public passenger services, taking into account the optional possibility of direct awarding in the provision of regional and local transport services’. It is, I think, very important, in the discussion always to distinguish between the interregional traffic on the one hand, where we already – you mentioned it yourself – have competition in some parts, and what happens especially in the municipalities. I think it is very important that we also emphasize this accordingly. They have also brought the example of Germany, there are many areas that we can take as an example. – Nevertheless: For example, in Baden-Württemberg, but also in other federal states, it took time to make the appropriate preparations. I think that's the start now. It will take a while for us to be ready, because we have to prepare ourselves professionally so that implementation can be carried out in the interests of customers – but we will certainly be able to discuss this in a much more detailed way in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22179	Next, Mr Alois Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22200	Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Direct procurement is valid EU law. Direct public transport is possible and should remain possible. The issue is that there is a performance-based approach on quality, on costs, and in Austrian transport policy, social democracy has always been committed to doing so. Since Faymann we have done a lot in this area. The key factor in transport policy is investment, and especially with the railway driver country number one, which is Austria, it is important to invest in the expansion of public transport. If you look at this, you will see that there are studies and evaluations on it. A comparative study by the WU Vienna says that Europe's calls for tenders are more than one-eight-fifth more expensive, they lead to a worse service and also to inconsistency, as in Sweden and the UK, and they destroy jobs in the region. The SPÖ insists that we remain the railway driver country number one, that railway driving remains as fast, as punctual and safe as we have achieved, and that needs 50 000 jobs. They have to stay in the region. I am concerned that not a German company manages regional transport in Austria, but that we do it ourselves. Look at what happened in aviation: All national societies have been destroyed, and at the end of the day authoritarian states and an operator are left in Europe. You have to look very closely at that, and therefore it is also right that you deal with it very pragmatically. Direct procurement must be possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22239	Next speaker: Mr Christian Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22261	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, what is the NEOS about in this proposal? – Very briefly at first reading: It is about the NEOS apparently having a contradiction between the government programme and the federal procurement law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is really possible to clarify this relatively quickly – Mr Ottenschlager has already done it – by taking a proper look at the government programme. Of course, we are aware that we need to make our railways fit, above all, for further liberalisation planned by the 2023 programme at EU level. That's perfectly clear to us. As I said, reading the corresponding lines in the government program properly, one also sees that it is very, very important for us to make the track fit. Another point to be read within is that, of course, we also want to see the relevant EU funds that we need for infrastructure measures in the sense of expanding the European axes, and this, of course, is precisely due to the fact that these EU directives are being complied with. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to discuss this very, very insidious and really very precise and exact in the Transport Committee, for which we are also ready. Mr Ottenschlager has already mentioned what is specified in the government programme. However, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, we do not want to make a neoliberal rapid shot. I am referring only to all the failed railway projects, for example in England, in the United Kingdom, where we are still very intensive today, and with a lot of money, in remedied the damage that was done at the time. So let us in the Transport Committee discuss it properly, I am convinced that we will also find a good solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22298	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22324	Madam President. High house! It's good we're talking about the federal procurement law. Some time ago, we came up with this law here in the High House, and it came into force in 2016. What was the starting point? – The discussions in the construction industry; if, for example, the public hand has announced large projects, they have been advertised in cumulo. Often small businesses, for example an electrician, did not come to the train because the entire project was advertised to the detriment of the small economy. The second problem is that public procurement is awarded in accordance with the principle of the cheapest bidder, so that only the cheapest comes to the train and not the best bidder. Both examples show that this was often a major problem for the medium-sized economy, for the small-structured regional economy, because such contracts often involve sub-contracting from Eastern Europe, wage and social dumping, and do not comply with rules of play which our companies must follow very well. In order to support local businesses, or also businesses from abroad, which comply with the laws which comply with wage regulations and do not operate social dumping, this was a useful innovation. I know when you look at the results that there is still a lot to be improved, but it is once again in a first step to anchor this best bidder principle, because there is thus more transparency in the award of subcontractors. It is also intended to prevent wage and social dumping. We want small, regional, medium-sized companies to succeed. What we did and should continue with the novelle at that time is that we got into the food sector. Today, it is true that in Austria we have about 2 million people who daily eat their meals in a public institution, in a barracks, in a hospital, in a nursing home or in a school, for example. There it is often the case that wholesalers buy, and then to surprise some in a local butter from Ireland. Not that I want to speak badly, but in times of a milk crisis in Austria, many are surprised and ask why there is no local butter, where we have so much of our own high-quality food. – The answer is that the tendering process works according to the lowest bidder principle. Now we have introduced the best bidder principle there, but only from an order volume of 100 000 euros, but the way is the right one, because what we want is that in public institutions, in hospitals, in nursing homes, in schools, in barracks, high-quality domestic food is used. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The point is that you cannot write in, of course, the Huber farmer from next door is supposed to deliver the milk, but you can take in the tender criteria very well – and that is the springing point – short transport routes, fresh food, organic or at least genetic-free and similar quality criteria. I think this is very important. The country of Lower Austria showed it: In the public institutions, in nursing homes, in the national clinics, this is already done. This is a real impulse for the local food industry and especially for small farmers, for organic farmers and those who produce high-quality food in the region. In conclusion: There is a study by Kepler University, which says that if we increase the use of regional food by 1 percent, this brings an additional value added of about 100 million euros in the region plus 1 000 jobs. I mean, we have a multiple effect: By buying regional products and supporting the regional economy – well-known in public institutions – we can access them – a small-structured rural agriculture is promoted. The Austrian Chamber of Agriculture has launched the initiative “Good to know!” because this is also associated with the labelling of these foods. The citizens who are supposed to know what they are taking, they should be able to read it on the labels, and that is what we are working for. It is therefore good that the government programme states that the Federal Procurement Act should also be extended to enable several of these public institutions to buy such products. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22379	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 54/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[18:07:43]] 10. Point First reading: Request by Mr Josef Schellhorn, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Federal Statistical Act (60/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22418	Finally, we reach the 10th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Josef Schellhorn came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22448	No evidence-based policy without evidence, it says. In our programme, this is also the case, so to speak, we are raising the right to evidence-based policy. Now Austria is certainly a world champion. We cannot, however, at times verify how efficient the funding is in reality. The most recent example is the employment bonus: We cannot really verify to this day how efficient it was or how efficiently it was introduced. In Austria, the Federal Government spends more than 50 million euros annually for collections, evaluations, publications and storage of statistical data, see § 32 para. 5 of the Federal Statistical Act. Statistics Austria, which are responsible for these activities, employ more than 700 people. What the scientists can then do with these data, they mean that themselves – I may quote –: “Scientists like to talk about an Austrian data cemetery in this context.” What is the problem now? – The problem is that there is no way, for example, to check whether various industrial policy promotions are efficient or whether they have any effect at all. The main reason is that the following paragraph of the Federal Statistical Act, § 31 para. 3: ‘The use of personal statistical data is also inadmissible for scientific purposes.’ That's the core problem. How can the problem be solved? – For example, for the purpose of scientific research, the use of data is made possible if certain Minimum requirements are met, in so far as data from personal societies can also be verified or traced. In Holland, there has also been the possibility of linked data for a long time; in this respect, we should also look into whether such possibilities could be used for Austria as well. Even the Wifo and all the other institutions would be grateful if they could work data-based and review the efficiency of policy, of steering measures. Statistics Austria needs a different law, and that's what it was about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22494	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22515	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schellhorn. I am allowed to make a move, we have looked at the request, of course we also want to signal a willingness to talk here, and we also support your statement that, if we want to work effectively, we have the facts, evidence-based facts, according to which we can align our work. This also concerns, among other things, the data protection to which we dedicate ourselves. Data protection is, I believe, currently in all mouths. There are a lot of media reports that report on the current project at EU level, the General Data Protection Regulation, and I am sure that many of you will be addressed at home, in their regions of companies, by associations, by private individuals. A major issue that concerns us in the course of the General Data Protection Regulation regarding the adjustments to the opening clauses in Austria is, of course, how we work in Austria. We have undertaken to deregulate ourselves in the coalition agreement, especially to return to Gold Plating, which is overwhelming, simply to remove. A major issue is the subject of legal persons in the Data Protection Act, which has been addressed by Mr Schellhorn in his request. I can offer from my side to talk about the extent to which legal persons should be mentioned in this area. Certainly, companies also need a certain degree of protection, especially when it comes to business secrets, business secrets, and that companies experience this protection, we need to take care of it. But is it really necessary – given the gold plating that has happened here – that legal persons are also included, or could it be limited to natural persons, as provided for in the General Data Protection Regulation? Perhaps that would be a possible solution in this process. So I think we should stay here in conversation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22552	The next item is the speech by Mr Walter Bacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22577	Madam President. High house! Mr Schellhorn, it is, of course, advocating the fact that economic policies are being evaluated for meaning and benefits. The present proposal concerns a very complex area of justice, and as in today's Current hour around the fundamental right to the protection of personal data and the Austrian specification, that not only natural but also legal persons may be meant. Unfortunately, an adjustment of the fundamental right to data protection to the European situation could no longer be made in the Data Protection Act 2018, since at the end of the last legislative period the necessary majority was no longer available. ==References====External links== In May 2018, the Federal Government proposed a further adjustment in this respect. I would also like to point out the Data Protection Adjustment Act – Federal Chancellery – which also deals with the issue of personal data. We therefore support a joint consultation of this application with the Data Protection Adjustment Act. However, I find the allocation to the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs rather wrong. I understand, Mr Schellhorn, that's your playground, that's where you want it. I think it would have been better removed in the Constitutional Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22613	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Philipp Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22637	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen at home! My colleagues have already said a lot about this. I believe that there must be no inequality between persons and capital companies. We have to look at this very carefully, I think. Data protection is a delicate matter, which usually seems simple at first glance, but it is even more delicate than you see at first glance. More transparency, especially in dealing with tax money, is definitely a concern of this Federal Government. In the course of the adjustments, my previous speakers have already mentioned twice that the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation should definitely be discussed. I also believe that this is a data protection issue and therefore the discussion would probably be better removed in the Constitutional Committee. But we will see where we will then discuss it at the end of the day. It is a disputeable one, and as I said, I insist that it is important to establish transparency in dealing with taxpayers' money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22668	Next speaker: Mr Christoph Stark. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22692	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests in virtual space! The last speech of today's sitting is probably not one of the highlights of today's day, given the previous items on the agenda. [[Abg. Rosary: You can never say that!]] Nevertheless, I do it with great joy. I stand here and follow one of the uses in this house – because it was always the talk of Usancen – that is, the first speakers as well out. I follow this good practice today and may welcome you with a warm welcome to God at the end of this session. [[It is a pleasure for ÖVP and FPÖ, as well as for SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] It is truly an honor and joy for me to stand here and represent my region, my country, my city with full strength and passion. I'll do that in the next few years. As the mayor of Gleisdorf, a small town of 11 000 people, it has been my goal for more than 18 years to reach the best of our city with a policy that is relevant and comprehensive. I would also like to bring this kind of policy into and out of the house. However, I do not want to follow another use, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to throwing good manners and, above all, solid respect over one another in some discussions – some of which we had today. In this sense, I wish all of us a good time here in the House. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] But now to the content: Opinions often disperse, yet I think that in the end a good will also brings a good result. This is also the case with the novelle initiated by honourable Members Schellhorn and colleagues. The proposal, as I can agree with my colleague Mr Himmelbauer, is to be welcomed and to be welcomed, because scientific knowledge not only conveys content to all of us, but because it may also lead to a discharge of the economy. On the other hand, the freedom of one ends where the freedom of the other begins, and that is to be observed in this case, as my previous speakers have mentioned. There are four aspects to be discussed here: How can this data protection be guaranteed under the protection of businesses and persons with no serious disability of scientific interests? Secondly, This can only be ensured if appropriate procedural provisions are established for the opening of these data in order to guarantee the same level of data protection. Thirdly, we do not need new institutions – so much about deregulation – because the appropriate institution already exists in the form of the Statistical Council. And fourthly, Last but not least, we have to bear in mind that all the companies in our country are currently preparing for the rather sharp data protection regulation – also mentioned above – in order to do just the same for data protection. On the other hand, as a public hand, we cannot open the doors and gates for data that the public hand has collected from businesses. These shall not be released without any regulations, nor for scientific purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22745	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 60/A to the Committee on Economic, Industrial and Energy. The agenda is exhausted. [[18:20:39]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2018-02-28-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22778	I announce that in today's session the self-employed applications 100/A(E) to 148/A(E) have been submitted. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 6.21 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. The sitting is closed.
