ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e1953	Ladies and gentlemen! After an intensive budget meeting, I may have the 21st. Open the meeting of the National Council and welcome you. I also welcome the ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and the seers at home in front of the television screens. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. tiny, Ing. Androsch, Katzian, Mag. Kern, Knes, Yılmaz, Dr. Lintl, Schartel, Worm, Singer and Schellhorn. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e1981	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and Exterior Dr. Karin Kneissel is the Federal Minister for the Interior Herbert Kickl and the Federal Minister for Finance Hartwig Löger is represented by the Federal Minister for Digitalization and Business Location Dr. Margarete Schramböck. In addition, I may announce that the Federal Minister for Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice Dr. Josef Moser for Agenda items 1 to 5 by the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Research Dr. Heinz Fäsmann, then until 1 pm by the Federal Minister for EU, Art, Culture and Media Mag. Gernot Blümel and will be represented by the Federal Minister for Sustainability and Tourism Elisabeth Köstinger from 1 p.m. on. [[09:04:34]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e2056	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e2147	I may announce that ORF 2 will forward the meeting live as usual until 1 p.m. and will transfer ORF III to the full-length meeting. That part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.40 p.m., will be sent in time. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e2166	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 5 and 8 to 11 of the agenda should be summarized. Is there any objection? – This is not the case, so it is done. [[09:05:17]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e2190	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration of the written question No 716/J by Mr Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues to the Federal Minister for EU, Art, Culture and the Media Gernot Blümel, on "Salvation for World Heritage". Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed from 3 p.m. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e2214	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. We have agreed a day block time of 7 “Vienna hours”, so the following speaking times are: ÖVP 130, SPÖ and FPÖ each 116 as well as NEOS and list mushroom per 39 minutes. [[09:06:13]] 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (65 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, with which the Federal Archives Act, the Federal Statistical Act 2000, the Information Security Act, the Artists' Social Insurance Fund Act, the Media Act, the ORF Act, the Press Promotion Act, the Media Cooperation and Promotion Transparency Act, the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967, the Childcare Act, the Federal Children's Law, the Federal Law on Children's Rights, the Federal Law on Social Security, the Federal Law on Social Security, the Law on Social Security, the Law on Social Security, the Law on Social Security, the Law on Social Security, the Law on Social Security, the Law on Social Security, the Law on Social Security, the Law on Social Security, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Childcare, the Law for Children, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to Trade in the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to Trade in the Law for the Law for the Law for the Law for the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to Trade in the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law to Trade in the Law for the Law in the Law in the Law for the Law in the Law for the Law for the Law in the Law for the Law for the Law in the Law in the Law for the Law for the Law in the Law for the Law for the Law in the Law on the Law for the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Foreign Action Act 2001, the Military Power Act, the Lockland Law 2002, the Ammunitions Camp Act 2003, the Military Acknowledgement Act 2002, the Wounded Medal Act, the Force Residence Act, the Waste Management Act 2002 and the Wine Law 2009 (Material Data Protection Adjustment Act 2018) (97 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 189/A by Eva-Maria Himmelbauer, BSc, Dr. Peter Wittmann, Werner Herbert, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Data Protection Act (Data Protection Deregulation Act 2018) (98 d.B.) 3rd. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on motion for a resolution 188/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Sobotka, Doris Bures, Anneliese Kitzmüller, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Federal Law on the Protection of Natural Persons in the Processing of Personal Data (DSG) (99 d.b.) 4. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act, the Federal Administrative Court Law, the Administrative Court Law 1985 and the Constitutional Court Law 1953 (100 d.b.) 5. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Digitalisation on the Government Template (68 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act, which amends the Austrian Law on Economic Service, the Federal Law on the Institute of Science and Technology – Austria, the German Law on the Academy of Sciences in Vienna, the German Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Economics and Technology, the Law on Research and Technology, the Law on Research Organisations, the Law on the National Funding of the Institutes, the 2014 Law on Higher Education, the University Law on Quality Assurance, the Innovation Foundation Education Law, the OeAD Law, the Austrian Research Funding Society mbH, the Law on Private University Law, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e2308	We now come to points 1 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Wittmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give the floor to Mr Wittmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e2335	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Data Protection Act, which we are now present in this form, is one of the most important laws in this area that will ever be passed in Austria. It is a pity that this draft law did not seek consensus, because many parts could also be carried by us. We have even jointly submitted a proposal as a support rocket for constitutional provisions and have assumed that we are still under negotiation. We wanted to talk about those areas that we wanted in addition, or about the constitutional provision of the data protection law, because the old constitutional provision no longer fits and because there would be a second renewal. It is a pity that we have said that we are negotiating, but in the course of the negotiations, all three points which we have mentioned in our amendment are unacceptable. That was a short negotiation, but of course it's the way it is. Only: If you want a constitutional provision to be borne by the opposition, you also have to negotiate with it. We are not short-lived, and we can still decide independently where we agree and where we do not agree. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have the free mandate on our side. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] With you, I believe, it is now a rather rudimentary story, because what is being purchased is to be voted on and ultimately to do as well. [[Abg. Neubauer: See Mrs. Holzinger!]] But what I really don't understand in view of the developments on Facebook is the following: We all know how Facebook has exploited the Facebook users and led us to see what happens to data that is so to speak passed on indiscriminately. Now we know that these overpowered corporations, such as Google, Facebook and others, extract all the data and finally do not know any restrictions on the use of these data. The only way to face this giant would be to complain in association. Thus, people who deal with data protection and have intellectual and legal expertise would be able to offer these companies Paroli. It is precisely this possibility that you take out and not into it, although the other countries, such as Germany, do. I don't understand. One leaves the data protection to the individual who has to complain as a person and then does not know how high the cost risk is, does not know if Facebook is making a campaign in social media against him when he complains. So you do not allow this abstraction of data protection. But it is the only chance to be able to offer this economically overpowered opponent Paroli anonymize, not to harm the one who complains. I do not understand why the large corporations are being made the wall here, rather than protecting the individual from disregarding the data protection regulations. I don't understand! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] But it fits into the picture. It is also true of the tax legislation, the large corporations are protected and the small ones are picked up. This is your policy, and that continues here. Why can't you put an instrument in the hands of the individual without the individual being afraid of damages or having to give his name, give him the opportunity to complain to him to avoid damage from all? I do not understand this form of protection of these giants, such as Facebook and Google, especially in view of social development, media coverage and abuse! I don't understand why you can't afford this opportunity. That was just a little wish. I don't understand! The liberals were much more open in the discussion. I do not know why this is categorically rejected by the ÖVP. It is necessary to be able to offer these groups the foreheads in order to give individuals sufficient opportunities to ultimately enforce their data protection rights. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This sentence is to be inserted. I'm sorry you don't go there! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Kolba and Mr Noll on his report.]] [[9:13]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e2494	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. I can still say that honourable Member Schellhorn has also been reported as preventing. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary:... not random campaign!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Is he sick, the poor?! What's wrong with him? What's missing?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I can give the floor to Mr National Councilman Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e2554	Mr President. High house! A brief replica on Mr Wittmann, who spoke of the free mandate: Mr Wittmann, sometimes I have the impression that you are speaking about the free mandate that what German Chancellor Kern or Old German Chancellor Kern has done is exhausted. He's just making more of it: bad words, bad mood, no real discussion. This is not the free mandate we expect. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] Mr Wittmann, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is a point of order. And factual discussion requires that we speak in the General Data Protection Regulation about the fact that personal data can only be processed legally for the first time here, that the processing is carried out according to trust and belief, that it is transparent and that there is a right to be forgotten in the General Data Protection Regulation. [[Abg. Arbitrator: (in the direction of a turquoise-colored speaker) Is your tie free of charge?]] That is, each individual in Austria has the right to delete their data from companies if they want it. It's a milestone. Why are we doing that? – Technological development in recent years, globalisation, the openness of the data requires strict regulations. Facebook shows that these regulations are correct and good. I would like to give you exactly the same example, Mr Wittmann. Because these regulations are good, Facebook now withdraws data from third countries, because they are now responsible for all Austrian, German and all the other data from the European Member States and they are subject to this regime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann]] Therefore, there is a great deal of data protection for all Europeans. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] So we can only say that the Americans are the Asians who should perhaps adopt these data protection regulations. Then it would be better for everyone, Mr Wittmann. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittmann:... already entered!]] You have addressed it and it is really a chuzpe that you submit a joint request with us, where we try to start a deregulation with you – a deregulation that means that we no longer have to implement nine national laws, but only a federal law. We could have taken the first deregulation measure. Who is it that prevents it? This is you, Mr Wittmann, and the whole SPÖ. I don't know if it's the state captain emperor's right that he's got his statistical law back to 125. It's time to change, although he thinks it'd be better for the Federation to do that. Has You agreed with your head of state, Kaiser? – I do not think so, Mr Wittmann. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Wittmann.]] I am therefore very grateful to our honourable Member Eva-Maria Himmelbauer. It has prevented the Gold Plating regarding the General Data Protection Regulation in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöger: Very good!]] You would have only caused confusion in all Austrian companies with other provisions in § 1 of the Data Protection Act. I am therefore glad that this provision has fallen, Mr Wittmann, that we have no gold plating, that people can behave clearly in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation and that this makes it perfectly clear what rights and obligations companies have. Therefore: It is important that there is a General Data Protection Regulation. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It is important that we now ensure that everyone also has their right to deletion, that everyone has a right to his or her personal data, and that there is now awareness of it. ==References== May 2018, all Austrian companies are obliged to have the consent of each individual person whose data they process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e2679	Mrs Gamon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e2700	Mr President. High house! To address another part of this debate, I would like to go through science and research to the Data Protection Adjustment Act. It is important to stress that we share fully the basic idea of this government template, namely the extension and facilitation of access to data for researchers. Especially in the health field, it is extremely important to be able to use personal data as well. This can make insane progress in the further development of medical standards. However, we are also concerned with legal certainty for researchers, and it was actually the basic idea. this law that no one, even without knowing it, is moving in an uncertain area. It is also a question of ensuring a high level of data protection for all citizens; this was, I hope, a fundamental idea, especially the GDPR. However, this objective is not in line with this law. There were numerous opinions with criticisms from the Data Protection Authority, the Data Protection Council, civil society organisations, such as Epicenter Works, which were taken into account not at all or only in part, to a very small extent in the government template. These include, inter alia, the provisions on the use of personal data. We still have many other criticisms about this law, but I would like to focus today on two essential points, namely whether this law is in conformity with GDPR. There are many people who doubt this. Should it not be in conformity, it would actually be a disaster. The government template assumes that the replacement of names by sector-specific person identification is equivalent to pseudonymization in accordance with GDPR. - But that's not the case. It has been said in committee: Well, the GDPR is always kind of commonplace. - But that's not enough. In fact, the GDPR provides for pseudonymization in such a way that it also achieves the objective that, with the disappearance of the names, people can no longer be identified without adding additional information. That's almost a data protection goal. But this goal is not achieved by this law, for it is said: Either uses a sector-specific identification mark or pseudonymization. However, it is not defined which goal is to be achieved with this, it is not defined that the keys to decrypt a dataset for the identification of persons must be kept separately, separately, which is also an important point in the GDPR, in which pseudonymization is performed. There is also a disproportionate restriction of the rights of interested parties in accordance with Articles 15 to 21 GDPR and this restriction is not valid under Union law. Imagine the following example, I have already mentioned this in the Committee: You have a rare disease, there are very few people who have this disease, and someone is studying it. Just because her name is no longer in the hospital, that doesn't mean you can't be identified. Perhaps there is only one person in the whole area who has this rare disease and falls into the respective age cohort, then you can say relatively quickly, that is Hubert from the next place. This may even concern a person of public interest who has a very special, personal interest in the deletion of these data. According to GDPR, it would have a right of deletion if, for a very special reason, it wanted to delete this data. This law does not, however, provide for such a thing. If the research purpose is affected, one can still say: Sorry, Hubert, we can't delete your data! – This is one of the many theoretical examples in which the proportionality required by the GDPR is no longer taken into account in individual cases. That is why we say that there is still a great need for change in this law. It should be in the sense of the researchers that it also holds Union law. Imagine: One is working on a research project that is going on for five years; the data is used in accordance with the now amended Research Organisation Act. Meanwhile, a complaint to the ECJ is filed, which says: I'm sure it won't be anything, back! What does this mean for a research project when years of data have been used unionably? – I think that would be what one might call a middle disaster for researchers. Worst Case: Of course, EU funding for researchers is also granted under the premise that the researchers are acting in accordance with EU law. What does that mean in the worst case, when you think that you haven't been researched for years and didn't use the data like that? – That too would be a disaster. We believe that there is still a need for substantial changes in this law. We are not really concerned with the principle of misconception that Union law is deliberately circumvented. On the contrary: We simply believe that certain points have not been taken into account. With this draft, it is only a matter of time until the law lands before the ECJ. This can take a few years and would have devastating consequences for the Austrian research community. That is why we think that this draft law cannot be accepted in this version. We are, however, very willing to enter into a constructive dialogue to bring about changes that make the draft law GDPR compliant. Another point needs to be stressed: The GDPR is not there to hinder anyone in his work, not even researchers, nor the media. It is here to reconcile different interests, namely, the freedom of research and, on the other hand, the individual interest of citizens in terms of a high level of data protection, a new fundamental right at European level. We believe that it is very possible to reconcile these interests and, above all, to bring this draft law into line with the GDPR. That's what we're talking about. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e2766	Mr Herbert has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e2788	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My previous speakers have already said it: On the basis of the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation by 25. In the run-up to today's decision, the old data protection law no longer has any validity, or the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation must be incorporated into domestic law, there was, of course, a great effort, in advance of today's decision, to comply with these timings on the one hand, but on the other hand, to engage with all parties in this House in the preparation of a good bill. The premise was to avoid, on the one hand, the high level of data protection we currently have in Austria, and, on the other hand, excessive provisions derived from the basic data protection regulation, which may be derived from Union law – the word Gold Plating has already fallen – on the other hand. There was one, as I said, good and suitable three-party request from the government parties plus SPÖ. I think that this proposal would be a good compromise in order to meet these basic requirements. Unfortunately, at the Committee meeting on 11 April, in which the General Data Protection Regulation and the transposition into domestic law was the subject, we had to note that the SPÖ, without prior notice to us or the ÖVP, together with the other opposition parties, had filed a counter-approach on this already negotiated request, which was in large parts entirely contrary to what had already been negotiated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] You can imagine that the surprise was great, and our perception of the SPÖ's handbeat quality has also got a new quality. [[Abg. Rosary: What is it?]] Nevertheless, we were ready to talk, which can be confirmed by Mr Wittmann. In retrospect, we have tried to gain access based on this amendment to the existing proposal, we have tried to meet again. In the end, however, this has not succeeded, since the SPÖ was too immobile, it has failed at the association's complaint, which the SPÖ wanted to carry out in a form that, like me, was superfluous and unfit. Why? – The version of the association action, which the SPÖ wanted to introduce into the draft, was about the fact that such complaints would be possible by companies or associations without the consent of the person concerned whose right to data protection was violated. This, I think, is an access that is unique in our legal system. I tell you quite honestly, I do not want an association, although in good faith and with good intentions, to bring an action against an international group with my precedent and I am thus being put to the public. I may not want to do this because I do not want to be in the spotlight because I do not want to argue for personal reasons, I say now. This is against us, and that was also the reason why we could not reach a consensus, because the SPÖ was immutable on this issue of non-commitment by those who were violated in its fundamental rights. That is why we will make a joint request with the ÖVP, without SPÖ. This is a pity; I would have liked to see it as the deputy chairman of the Austrian Data Protection Council that data protection could have been included as a fundamental right. Unfortunately, this was not the case because of the immobility of the SPÖ. I think, however, that we have achieved a good, decent legislative proposal or amendment tabled by Mr Himmelbauer. The request, I believe, is a good compromise between the rights of data subjects in relation to possible data protection violations and the interests of businesses and institutions that process data for which the possibility of continuing to operate fully in their field. It is a good bow that is stretching there; it is a suitable matter, a suitable application, both for consumers, for those concerned as well as for the economy, the associations and the institutions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e2833	At the gallery, we welcome a group of the Bundesüberstagenrealgymnasium for performance athletes from St. Pölten. – Welcome so early! [[General condolences.]] Mr Noll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e2869	Mr President. Minister! High house! That's a neat palawatsch we're producing. It is about data protection law, it is a fundamental right, one of the most essential fundamental rights of today. What threatens to be produced here in the house now is legistic and not good in the matter, and I think all those who have been dealing with it know that it is not good. Nevertheless, it will be decided by the majority here in the House. Mr Herbert has described quite true and plastically the genesis of this matter. It's a pity! A house that should actually be of value to working with great accuracy and determination in the field of fundamental justice, is producing something that is in reality neither acceptable at the level of time nor legislative. This is something we should not actually do, but we must do, because we have the appropriate timing from the EU. What threatens us now is that we have in data protection law Sections 1 to 3, as we already know them and as they have always been. However, from § 4 onwards, we have modified wordings that in reality do not fit in with §§1 to 3. An essential point in this matter is what is contained in the current data protection law in § 1: “Every man has a right”. In the first amendment, this was correct because one wanted to avoid the well-known Gold Plating, changed to natural persons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] What's going on now? – Now stands “everyone” inside again. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – Mr Rädler, hold back a little bit! You do well and the hygiene of the house. [[Congratulations on the list of Pilz and SPÖ as well as on the members of the NEOS.]] As a Salzburger, of course, I immediately understand what we hear in Salzburg every year at the performances: “A beautiful case, quite clear to the sun And a hair in the soup!" [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] We therefore tabled an amendment tabled by Mrs Wittmann, Mr Noll, Mr President, who is present in writing. With this request, we try to straighten out §§ 1 to 3 and what results from the General Data Protection Regulation – without this association action, since the ÖVP is now very fixed – and at least to save what is still to be saved. I beg you, look at it! In § 4 you now have the “protection of natural persons”. This does not fit in with the existing § 1, where “everyone ” is spoken of, at all. Do you want to bring the whole Judicture to misery by deliberately challenging the hermeneutic arts of our judges? I think it is a lot to change §s 1 to 3, in particular § 1 with the five paragraphs that we have proposed. Then, too, § 39 can fall away, and the whole thing has at least a face. It's still not good then, but it's at least consistent. [[Call to the ÖVP: But there was a...!]] I'm asking you to jump over your shadow and really look at it. The High House does something here that it shouldn't do. As a Member of this Republic, I have no desire to listen in the next few years to the justified reluctances from teaching and jurisprudence, just because we have done something here that we really shouldn't do. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] It is not a party political urge to ride me here, but we should at least work clean in this area where fundamental rights are concerned. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[9:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e3052	The application has just been presented in its key points, was submitted in writing, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e3077	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to refer to this joint motion, which has been raised several times. In this request tabled by Mr Herbert von der FPÖ – actually also by Mr Wittmann von der SPÖ – and by the ÖVP, it would have been about data protection in relation to the General Data Protection Regulation, which was adopted by 25. May be applied to make adjustments to make legal certainty for all those who make adjustments in these days in their companies, in their associations, in the social institutions et cetera in order to be in conformity with data protection. That is to say, it is about eliminating legal inaccuracies. We thought a few weeks ago that together with the SPÖ we had taken a good course, with a request that would not have been necessarily new. Last year, there was already an adaptation to data protection law, a government template that has not been fully implemented. At the time, there were also constitutional provisions which were not adopted because of a lack of two-thirds majority. An almost identical request, which then came from the BKA, a SPÖ department, has now been brought in together, and it is incomprehensible to me why this request should have become a worse one at a time. [[Abg. Wittmann: There has changed a lot with Facebook!]] [[Abg. Wittmann: The Facebook scandal has changed everything!]] I am sorry, too, because I must say that I came to this House with the premise to always be open to conversations, to want to talk to all parties. [[Abg. Wittmann: Why don't you want a modern law?]] [[Abg. Wittmann: You live in the past! The future...!]] In return, however, I also expect a certain quality of handshake, Mr President. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This handbeat quality was no longer given at the end of the day. [[Abg. Wittmann: We need to talk about the future!]] We had a joint request, and since your name, your signature, was below it, I assumed that we could also go this common way. Unfortunately, God was not so, so there is a change today. I should like to make an amendment – Mr President, I would ask you to distribute the proposal in the House, and I will explain it in the key points: Firstly, with this amendment, we must remove the constitutional provisions from the original proposal. On the other hand, we will introduce a provision, a declaration in § 4, that of course all data protection provisions, which are now also laid down in the Data Protection Act and from 25 onwards. May be valid, always refer only to natural persons. This should at least bring legal certainty a bit far. [[Abg. Noll: There’s “everyone ” inside!]] On the other hand, there is also an explanation as to the need for information, so that there is legal certainty that business and business secrets do not necessarily have to be published. We also devote ourselves to freedom of the press or freedom of expression and information. This is an opening clause of the General Data Protection Regulation, which will be necessary – there has already been a provision that is now being extended – in order to protect the secrecy of the editors in order to promote investigative journalism as well. Finally, to introduce the possibility of a warning by the data protection authority: This is necessary, I believe, as so many new provisions – not all is new, I admit that too, but there are many innovations – to our companies, the associations et cetera, with of course a support, a assistance of the data protection authority also desirable. In addition, we define the authorities and the public authorities, so that there is also clarity in this respect, which would not in itself be the case from the regulation. Finally, I should like to make one more amendment, which I will read: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[9:42]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e3552	With regard to the request presented, I can state that it was also presented in writing, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The same applies to the second, just-readed application, which has been properly submitted and sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. I would like to ask the next speaker: Mrs National Councillor Rendi-Wagner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e3576	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! During my time in medical-epidemiological research, I made analyses, and there were few who were mainly based on anonymous patient data. That is why I am going to approach today's issue exactly from this point of view. Why am I telling you that? – Because I also know from this own and personal experience how important systematic health data for research and, of course, how essential they are for medical progress, but also essential for evidence-based health policy decisions. At the same time, however, I also know from this experience that precisely with this type of data always a maximum, and it is really a maximum, of sensitivity and caution, and that it is always necessary to pay attention to the right balance in the triangle of patient rights, data protection and, finally, the right of science. What exactly is the situation with the Elga specification, which has now been very strongly debated in recent days? – Elgadata are definitely not comparable to all other classical registry data and should therefore not be treated equally. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what Elga is definitely is the largest digitization project of social security, the federal government and the countries, a joint project that was launched and developed many years ago. But Elga was first and foremost – and we have to do that. In this discussion, we always have to face up to ourselves! – not developed for research, but to improve the health care of people in this country and not least patient safety, the most important in healthcare. That's exactly what it's all about, and we also remember that it wasn't quite easy: The beginning of Elga was overshadowed by a certain scepticism in the population, in the patients in which the medical profession is overshadowed, and we all know what great and laborious – I would say almost – it took and still needs persuasion to continue to win both the patients and the medical profession for Elga. I'll tell you: Elga isn't finished technically. Elga has not yet arrived at the patients who do not yet feel Elga. That is, we have not improved health care, patient safety, so that people really have their own benefits. Elga is in technical construction, and what is the government doing in this sensitive building phase? – They all know it, they are not sure about the medical profession, they are insecure patients by discussing the following and even going on, they are now writing it into a law: It releases Elgadata for research, compares it with all the classic registry data that we have available in Austria, with a foundry law such as the Research Organisation Act. It thus opens this highly sensitive data not only for medical universities – that would not be the great evil – no, it opens this data to all companies in this country who want to conduct research with this data, research of any kind. This will leave a historically important Elga principle, to which there has always been an over-group consensus, from the beginning of Elga development, namely that of parliamentary control – and that must not be. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] What happened? That's not just me. That's what many people are asking me to give me subscriptions and postings. A few weeks ago, the FPÖ Health Minister, who is almost the guardian of this health data and is responsible for Elga, wrote a public opinion on the planned FOG, which clearly opposed the opening of the Elga for research purposes, because she was aware of this dangerous momentum and, of course, taught by her experts. But what does she do a few days later? – It agrees with the Council of Ministers on the opening of Elgadata. This is a zigzag course, as we have had to experience it more often in recent months. And now? – Today, you want to clear the fire itself with an almost cuddly motion for a resolution, which, I believe, we are about to get on the face or get presented. From my point of view, this procedure is more than problematic. Ladies and gentlemen! The real damage has already been done. People – and you can see the numerous media – are already getting away from Elga, the extent is not foreseeable. People feel betrayed, and that's right, as I mean. We have always promised people from the very beginning over fractional and across the system partner boundaries to deal carefully with their elga data – and it is also your data, ladies and gentlemen, about which it is here. We're all part of Elga. People feel betrayed. Yes, they trusted us – until a few days ago. Dear Government! You have trampled this trust with feet. In this discussion, we never forget: This is not just about data protection, it is about human protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e3660	Mrs Povysil has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e3682	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary, on the gallery, via media! There is no betrayal from our side, there is no damage, there is safety, only safety for health data. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The only ones who unabated and incessantly insure patients, whether they be in Elga, UKH or insurance, are the social democrats who have not done these things in their reign and now contribute to a massive uncertainty of the patients – to an uncertainty of the patients who no longer know whether they are sure, whether the - - Mrs Rendi-Wagner, this uncertainty is to be attributed to you and no one else. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda]] [[Abg. That's right!]] [[Re-enlightenment of the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Your minister is against the Elga opening!]] [[Abg. Rose wreath: calm down! It's all right!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Other calls from Mr Rendi-Wagner and Mr Kuntzl.]] We must think in medicine in new standards, that is no question at all. I join my health speech from yesterday, in which I said that we are living in the age of e-, electronic data processing. [[Abg. Wittmann: Mrs. Federal Minister is also not up to date on this question!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Go give S’ a rest!]] [[Abg. Wittmann: She is not up to date, the Federal Minister! As in all other questions too!]] [[Calls at the FPÖ.]] That means that this electronic data processing allows us huge opportunities on the one hand, but of course it also poses dangers. It is also obvious that the Social Democrats do not even want to hear or perceive the opportunities. [[Call the SPÖ: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Wittmann: You already have to notice that the Minister of Health...!]] On the basis of anonymized health data, Ladies and gentlemen, the medicine can be revolutionized. Artificial intelligence, i.e. large data collections, can properly use millions of data from patient records, treatment forms, research articles, and produce very precise diagnostics. Let me give you an example: I was able and able to meet the artificial intelligence Watson, the Watson computer, in New York. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Watson doesn't need Elga!]] An example of what this Watson computer can do: At the University of Tokyo a leukemia was detected in a patient, i.e. a leukemia form that we all know from the school books that we all learn and that is treatable. However, she was resistant to treatment, she could not be treated at the Tokyo University. As a result, these health data were provided by artificial intelligence Watson, and the patient's DNA was compared to 20 million cancer studies. Within 10 minutes, the diagnosis was made that it was a rare leukemia, and the patient could be cured. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rosary: That's what you want to prevent!]] That's what you want to prevent, ladies and gentlemen. Since you are insecure the patients, here we cannot provide this to the patient due to your uncertainty. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Watson and Elga are different things!]] That's incredible, that's retrograde, that's unmodern, that's once again not according to the new standards. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Mr Gudenus and Mr Rosary: MrSPÖ!]] In order to give the patient exactly this security, which is necessary for this very sensitive data, we as the legislator have decided on another initiative. Of course, both ministers have already announced that they guarantee the safety of health data, of elga data and that they are only used for scientific purposes and only under certain conditions. But: I think it is important to give a very clear sign in this sensitive area of legislation, and this is what we are putting today with a motion for a resolution which my colleague, Mrs Niss, will subsequently bring in. What is the point of this motion for a resolution? What are we going to do with it? – We ensure that patient data can be anonymized and made available exclusively for scientific purposes. We ensure that there will be no conclusions on individual persons. We ensure that the state representation of the medical profession must confirm the scientific interest. We ensure that an Ethics Commission established at the Ministry of Health, at the universities releases the respective research project, and we ensure that health data cannot be used for commercial purposes. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is what the Federal Minister for Health, the Federal Minister for Science and Research and the legislation in Austria ensure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the SPÖ:How do you make sure?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] In this way we can guarantee both to the patient: the necessary medical progress and the security he must have for his data, for his personality, for his individuality.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e3948	Mr Scherak is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e3969	Mr Rosenkranz, intellectually speaking, always remains a place for criticism. [[Abg. Rosary: Not there anymore!]] Mr President. Federal Minister! It is essentially with all these legislation on matter that we implement the GDPR in accordance with European law in Austria. There are two things that are important from my point of view: on the one hand, that we do so in accordance with European law, and on the other hand, that we do not undermine the level of data protection that we now have. If we violate these standards of protection, I see a fundamental problem. Mrs Gamon has already mentioned where the problem lies in the field of science and research. There is another part where, from my point of view, it is very difficult, which is the area of the interior, that is, what the Ministry of the Interior has to answer, because the right of objection is also ruled out there. This is now brought with an amendment to the security package, but it is irrelevant where it is being decided. The fact is: There, too, the right to object is excluded. What about this right of objection under the GDPR? – It is about the fact that, in the case of data processed on and on a legitimate basis, a person may subsequently object, if he has a particular interest, to the possibility of stopping this processing. This is something that the European Union, the European Parliament, has fortunately decided with the GDPR, and you want to rule out this on a flat-rate basis. I believe that this is a fundamental problem. Above all, it will happen exactly what Mrs Gamon has already mentioned, namely that the European Court of Justice will say sometime, that we are not at the level laid down by the GDPR, and we are not acting in accordance with European law! This is a fundamental problem. [[Congratulation with NEOS and List Pilz, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] On the request of the FPÖ, very briefly to Elga: Mrs Povysil, I understand your intention. The problem is that the law you are proposing here is not sufficient for the level of data protection that we would actually need, and that is why we also find it quite difficult to agree to it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Maybe a few words about the data protection deregulation law. Mr Noll used the right term with “Pallawatch” before. Because of this peculiar situation, which has come to an end here between ÖVP, FPÖ and SPÖ, we are faced with quite a scrapping pile. On the one hand, we will continue to have this bizarre specification in Austria, that legal persons have a fundamental right to data protection, which, on the other hand, contradicts the GDPR, and no human will know how to apply it accordingly. We have the discussion that the SPÖ and also we as NEOS have brought in regarding the mandat-independent association action. One can also argue that the whole thing is less class-warring than the colleague Wittmann, because it is less about doing something bad to the evil international groups, but it is about making the fundamental right to data protection easier for individuals to enforce. [[Abg. Wittmann: But also!]] Dear ÖVP, I can tell you, I understand if, from the point of view of the economy, you're worried. – The problem is that the Austrian economy, the Austrian companies, do not have to worry at all here, because it is not a question of somehow being charged with damages, nor is it a question of Austrian companies being affected by it, because it is against Facebook and other companies, but it is without exception that objective legal violations in data protection can be followed and detected accordingly by data protection NGOs. [[Congratulation with NEOS and List Pilz, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] One of the most absurd forms we have at the end of the day is that we also cannot regulate the distribution of competence in data protection, which hurts me very much personally. You have to imagine that little Austria has nine different data protection laws! They are sometimes called different, but obviously the data protection in Lower Austria is valued differently than the data protection in Styria or Vorarlberg. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: We know that anyway!]] That's something completely absurd. We could have arranged that, you didn't do it together. It will now be particularly difficult for the federal states, namely those who have not yet prepared anything, because they will look from the date when the GDPR applies, and we will not know quite how to do so. What is at the end of the wheel, and I particularly regret that, is the privacy and privacy of the citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4052	Mrs Niss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4074	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! Dear Seers and Seers! Mrs. Gamon, you know, the researcher has the field-specific mark for a certain research purpose, and if he makes a return to the name, that is not the purpose of the Research Organisation Act, and so it can be sanctioned according to the General Data Protection Regulation, with penalties of up to 20 million euros. But I think that fits the panic of the last two weeks – Facebook scandal, data sales – and I want to get back a little on the ground of the facts. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] “The processing of personal data should be in the service of humanity.” – This is contained in the General Data Protection Regulation, and on it also builds the Data Protection Adjustment Act – Science and Research. I know I repeat, but I can't say it often enough: Science and research are important drivers of economic growth in Austria. And with this law, by means of the Data Protection Adjustment Act, I believe, we are creating a good balance between the important data protection and the forcing of Austria as an innovation location. But the most important thing we do with this law is legal certainty and clear framework conditions. And that's exactly what research needs. The researchers do not want to deal with bureaucracy and the interpretation of the law, nor should they, but they should do what they can best, and this is research research to find solutions to social problems and to pass on to the Austrian innovation location. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ]] They should also be able to do so without having to stand in the crime with one foot and fear fines of 20 million euros. Appropriate measures have been taken by law in § 2d of the Research Organisation Act in order to continue to guarantee data protection. We have, as far as possible, integrated the protection of data subjects' rights, the implementation of 28 data protection follow-up assessments and the provision of an ex-ante check by the data protection officer in the scientific institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! The basic data protection regulation does not matter to cancer. To continue in research, science must work with pseudonymized, partly personalised data. The use of biobanks can make significant progress, for example in the investigation of vaccine damage. Especially in times of opposition to the vaccination, I believe we are doing well to be able to investigate the advantages and disadvantages of vaccinations and other medicines. Nevertheless, we are of course aware of the fears in this context. We would also like to address this, and that is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My thanks go to the Minister and the Ministry for the drafting of this law, which was a long, rocky way. And my request goes to you: Vote for this law! It's thoughtful, it's balanced, and we're creating a safe innovation advantage for this country! Thank you. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[10:03]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4248	The application has been sufficiently supported, properly submitted and read, and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is Mr Bacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4272	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A sentence on TOP 5: Research is extremely important, and public interest is also to be taken into account, but I think that people's rights should be the top priority. This law restricts people's rights while facilitating access to sensitive data for businesses. I'm very sorry. We've heard it today: Businesses have rights, while people unfortunately only have obligations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council Mr Gerstl asked colleagues whether he had already informed Land Captain Kaiser about the division of competence that we have already mentioned. [[Abg. Jarolim: He confused that!]] I could also ask you: Have the ÖVP heads of state been informed that there might be a problem now? But it's not quite that far. [[Abg. Rosary: With a counter question you can rarely answer a question!]] Data protection within the meaning of the General Data Protection Regulation does not mean protecting the data on and on its own, but means that one must first and foremost protect the people whose data are processed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With our amendment we would have had the opportunity now if we had the kind. Paragraph 80 2 of the GDPR to implement the greatest possible protection for the people whose data are processed. What does this kind of thing mean? Paragraph 80 2 of the GDPR? – It has already been mentioned several times, but has never been held very concretely: It is about the possibility of being able to deal with large companies such as Google, Facebook and Co without any specific mandate from a data subject. That is what Mr Herbert has already mentioned. But what did not agree: that I need to give my name to that. The whole thing remains abstract, it's anonymous. That's why I don't see the very big danger. The main difference between the collective action and the collective action is that it is only a matter of determining the law when it comes to the collective action, whereas it is actually a matter of compensation for damages. I think that one cannot talk about over-fulfilment of the law, since one cannot speak of gold plating, it is just the consistent implementation of the greatest possible protection of people, and this should always be about the interests of large corporations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But you may also be obliged to donate here – and perhaps this is the case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Excuse me!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Abg. Wooger: Androsch!]] The fear of the economy, I think, is unfounded. It is about foreign corporations and not about the domestic economy. As a result, I would require more confidence in the local economy that nothing would happen anyway. But it's just the foreign big corporations that worry us. And again: It is only a matter of compensation for damages in the collective action, not in the action of the association. So what happens to us? The action for association is, as it were, the relief as the right to implement. In the absence of the possibility of association action, there will necessarily be more collective complaints. I don't think that's in our minds either. In summary, it can be assumed that relevant data protection violations in Austria are primarily committed by international companies and not by the domestic economy. We are also aware of the fact that a collective complaint or a mass mandate is of course causing problems for Austrian companies. But it is also important to note that by not implementing species. Paragraph 80 2 of the GDPR, due to the rules of jurisdiction, continues to have a legal vulnerability to global corporations, and this is not good for Austrian consumers or the Austrian economy. Put to the point: A non-implementation of species. Paragraph 80 2 of the GDPR, the association’s action, primarily brings something to Google, Facebook and Co, but not to the Austrian economic location and even not to the affected people in Austria. And that can't be in your mind – in ours it's not!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4373	Mr Jenewein is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4394	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, it has now become a little bit of a herb-and-rub discussion, although the topic itself - - – – thank you for your word-reading from the last row. [[Abg. Noll: But this is due to the government template, Mr. Cot!]] It is always exhilarating when you bake out of the last row. Maybe you should think about why you're in the last row and not on the front. This may also be due to the fact that what you have contributed so far may not necessarily correspond to the level that would actually be appropriate for the House. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and list fungus.]] I should also like to say something about the subject on the subject after I have received the call for an interim call; I am particularly concerned with § 9 of the amendment tabled here by Mrs Himmelbauer. This is because it is a problem when the previous regulation, which was adopted in this House a year ago, was relatively vaguely formulated, which could lead to the fact that investigative journalism in this country can really come under the wheels. So far, it has been regulated in such a way that processing for editorial purposes has only been tangled in this opening clause, “to the extent necessary.” And “to the extent that this is necessary” is always a question of consideration of the competent court. This is something we want to change in the future. There are some recent examples that show that media would face complaints or that media would be heavily restricted in the exercise of their activities if we did not raise this issue and use this opening clause especially for journalism, for the free media. An example: Take the last issue of the weekly “Falter” magazine, in which pictures from a mosque in Vienna were published, on which you can see how children were animated into war games. The simple decision on how it was taken last summer could have prevented this publication from being published by the Atib Association. These are things that are unacceptable to us. That's why I think it's a shame that the SPÖ is so perplexing and saying: No, we're not there, we leave it as it is. Another point you didn't think about when this law was changed last year is that of course this would only have been done individually for the respective editor. But what happens to the editorial spaces? – If he displays his photos that he has, then on a server in the editor, then that does not fall below. Then it might well be that it is precisely the cancellation claims of the parties concerned that there may also be associational complaints. With the amendment tabled, it is now possible to counteract it. That's why I'm very glad that was done. If my previous speaker has said that it is not only about protecting the data, but also about protecting the people to whom this data belongs, then unfortunately it is only half right, because if a journalist comes into possession of a photo and starts to search for it because of this photo, no matter what it is about, then the possibility would be that after four weeks he would have to inform those who are pictured in the photo that he now has to search about it. This makes Investigative Journalism impossible, which destroys journalism. That's what we're trying to keep from doing. If you do not vote there today, then you are actually on that side, which is impossible or prevents the free journalism and the free exercise of journalism – and this is an essential point of our democracy. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tashner.]] That's a shame, that's not good, and it's actually just showing – and that's what I got back at the beginning of the speech – that through this herb-and-rove debate some people have such a board that they don't know what's actually more party tactics and what's really a development that's a good development in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4450	Mrs Lueger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4471	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let's go back to Elga again. I'd have a question. Yesterday, the FPÖ Minister Hartinger was sitting here at the budget debate and said – I quote – that: I can tell you that there is definitely no release for Elga. Like the judicial data, “Elga data in the Research Organisation Act should be excluded. [...] These are to be protected, and for that I stand.” My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the FPÖ! What does that mean? Don't you take your minister seriously? Does it matter what she says, or does it step back? You have to explain that now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: It can sign the regulation! This is the only one who can sign a regulation! You should know the level building of the legal order once! Please note that we have a legal order and no left order!]] Now I come to the motion for a resolution 188/A. These three presidents have submitted supplementary to the Data Protection Act on their own account. This is a constitutional authority, according to which the Data Protection Authority, as the supervisory authority, is entrusted with the control of Parliamentary Administration, Court of Auditors, Public Prosecutors and VwGH in data protection matters. It is also clarified that the General Data Protection Regulation is not applicable to the state function of the legislation. This approach is similar to that in the German Bundestag that the application of the GDPR is not foreseen within the scope of the legislation. This applies, on the one hand, to the parliamentary clubs, to the representatives, to the Federal Councils, but also to the parliamentary staff. It is good that this request was made by the President before this law came into force. However, it is clear that, of course, the fundamental right of data protection in accordance with § 1 of the Data Protection Act, in accordance with Article 8 ECRK and in the future in accordance with Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights applies. That is why we will also agree to this request. A short comment on TOP 4. The application regulates the legal proceedings in data protection matters before the Bundesverwaltungsgericht, the Verwaltungsgerichtshof and the Constitutional Court. In the first instance, the data protection authority shall decide, in the second instance, the Federal Administrative Court. The VfGH decides at first and last instance and by a non-public collegial. The Administrative Court and the Federal Administrative Court decide in second instance by Senate. Thus, legal protection is guaranteed. A Senate of the Administrative Court shall be responsible for determining possible infringements of the GDPR by the Administrative Court in the course of the exercise of its judicial function. That is a good thing, and that is why we will also agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4514	Mr Smolle is speaking on behalf of the National Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4535	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators! I would like to address a special aspect of medicine, namely the so-called personalized medicine and its connection with the Data Protection Adjustment Act. What does personal medicine mean? – Traditionally, it has been common in recent decades that the selection of therapy for a particular patient, a certain patient due to the diagnosis, has been made, if necessary, of the stage. It has often been necessary to purchase that therapy in maybe 20.30 percent of patients, patients, does not work in the other patients. In the meantime, however, one has gone on in research, knows of disease mechanisms, evaluates the overall picture of a patient, a patient, and can thus often offer a customized therapy that is more effective and also less effective. In order to identify such groups of patients, as research continues, there is a need to draw on large collectives, and so on. large collectives provide so-called biobanks. Biobanks are collections, large collections of mostly tissue samples, which have been obtained, for example, through surgery and in which patients have consented to the availability of these samples of science. It is only through this that it is possible to discover small groups, special situations of patients and thus free the way to individualised care. In the new data protection adaptation law for science and research, the possibility of the so-called Broad Consent is now also granted. This means that patients can agree that future studies can also be made with the tissue sample material, because we do not know which molecules will be the focus of research in five or ten years. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a double political responsibility here. One is the protection of the data, the protection of the individual personality. The other is that we also have the responsibility towards society that this immense wealth of knowledge, stored in the various registers, data and sample collections, can also be used to gain knowledge in the interests of society, in the interests of patients. I believe that we are taking a good step in this direction with this law. I would therefore ask you to approve. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4581	Mr Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4602	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I can only give my colleagues Smolle with regard to his concerns and his wishes and objectives. But it's all the more surprising to me – and I really think that's sad! – that you are completely messing up this project with a neck rigidity that seeks the same! It would have been possible, of course, for a sensitive design to achieve a common approach and to obtain the approval of the entire opposition. However, it would have been necessary that you do not live backwards in the past, but just look forward to looking around, what has gone down in the world in the last few months, and simply react sensitively to it with us. But that was not the case at all, and I have to tell you: I am horrified at this way of acting completely with scams! This is a development that is recognizable to each of us. If you do not do the same for yourself, then at least for the people outside who deserved to get a really demanding template! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am seriously concerned if you have not followed the discussion in the American Parliament on Cambridge Analytica and Zuckerberg. We have learned that in this untold Trump’s election campaign, data were abused by people in an adventurous way to win the election. This has gone over Facebook, and Mr. Zuckerberg, who is the President, boss and owner of Facebook, has sat in front of the Senate and has “instructed” the people there in a way – under quotation marks – that is, by the nose that you simply don’t like. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] That is why, in the meantime, the European Parliament has decided to invite Zuckerberg, and I am already eager to say what it is going to say. But we're pretending to be nothing at all. The only thing that really helps here is, of course, the association action, because in all cases it ensures that one can resist it, as an individual, in groups or all. If this law, which contains very sensitive points, does not allow for appropriate legal protection – and you just turned it off by not wanting to have this association action – then you simply and simply cannot agree to it. I'm amazed at the way I've done in connection with Elga. I have always been a fanatical follower of Elga, because I also believe that one needs health data for individuals, but of course also for further development for mankind as a whole. But now you choose an insensitive procedure – where the Minister has actually tried to save what is to be saved – by going here and saying that not only public institutions, but also private and whoever has the data in research should have it. This reminds me of the election campaign when 450 000 euros have been paid, and now the money flows more or less into the large industry. So you have no sensorium at all in this regard and you say: That doesn't matter, let's give the private the health data! – We experience data abuse on every occasion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] This evening we will have the opportunity to discuss what is happening to the BAT, where all possible data go. As a fanatical follower of Elga, I have to tell you quite honestly: I now ask myself whether I am not going to unsubscribe. I would never have imagined that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, are bringing about such a development! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4657	I can announce that, as a result of the extensive amendments and additional amendments and requests for separate votes, the corresponding preparations have not yet been fully implemented and the votes have therefore been moved until points 8 to 11. The next speaker was Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4684	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, just to illustrate how serious the debate is: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Header]] What you did last night just before midnight, what you drive away from politics, what erotic preference you have, what your hobbies are, what travel you like to do, all this is your private business. I don't care. We don't know each other so well. Whether you want to tell me this or not, is your personal decision. I would like to make it clear that this is not an example taken out of the air, but rather a debate that the German Bundestag has also held: The NDR has bought data and has been able to understand very closely what Members are investigating and for which areas they are making themselves strong. For this reason, data protection is not an abstract matter, it is a matter of protecting the privacy of people and people, the population, politics, science, all the people who live here in Austria. This is a highly sensitive area that we are discussing today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, we are in a field of tension today, and we must weigh between the fundamental right to science and this privacy. We will all confess and ask ourselves the question: How can we really guarantee the best possible health care in the future, in view of the very large, central societal challenges, from climate change to dealing with an ageing society? How can we get better, for example with regard to new drugs and also in cancer research? Of course, science must be able to research on the basis of data, and therefore there are exceptions in the Data Protection Act for science. It is therefore in principle our access that we do not want to install anything here, but we need a clean, clear, legal-proof solution, and this is unfortunately not the case in this area. Not only do experts from the Data Protection Authority warn everyone and say that this is partly not in conformity with fundamental rights, even the members of their own federal government argue with each other and are not sure; the Minister of Health says that the whole thing does not fit in this form, but the Minister of Science says that it is very appropriate. So there is a zigzag course in which almost everyone acts against everyone, including among the experts. At any rate, however, everyone warned, and this debate was also held in the Committee. Therefore, one really has to take time for this sensitive area. We must take time to solve problems, and we must not say, as we have been told: We're going to get into practice where the problems are, and then you have to re-adjust. – You simply can’t do that in such a sensitive area! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to stress the seriousness and importance of this issue, both to Mr Cox and to Mr Gamon: We all have not made this decision easy, I believe. There has been a real offer in the Committee to make use of the budget week, to put us together with experts and to try to repair together the worst Schnitzers, who still exist, and to work together on the solution. – Unfortunately, this offer has not been taken up. On the part of ÖVP and FPÖ, we are told that everything is great, and today five of them come up with a small amendment or a motion for a resolution on the table with which we are trying to fix things in the Husch-Fuch-Procedure. You can't work like that! Our offer was there that we had really tried together to improve this important law. [[Abg. Höbart: That was a short-term request!]] In my view, I still call the most critical criticism: Mr Federal Minister, I do not know if you are aware that the basic problem will be in the future beyond the various areas of the question which registers will be drawn up for whom. According to law, there are, of course, on the one hand, scientific institutions that will, so to speak, have the central key and access to scientific data or register data in the future and can therefore be researched. However, the danger in the future will be that this key will not only go to the scientific institutions listed, but theoretically to any company in Austria or outside Austria, for every company can say according to the definition that is in the law: We're a research institution. Mr. Federal Minister, please we distinguish very well between Facebook or Amazon and the Medical University of Vienna! In this respect, one has to make a distinction and close corresponding areas of gray. This law does not, however, permit that. That means it has to be defined what a scientific institution is. To whom does this definition depend in the future? The Minister of Science? - No! The Science Fund? - No! An expert committee? - No! Who will decide what a scientific institution is in the future? – This is what Norbert Hofer, the Minister of Transport, is doing! I wish him a lot of pleasure, because this is a very serious topic! Norbert Hofer will then face billions of heavy corporations, and a central pass is not included in the law, namely regarding public interest, because it makes a difference whether it is about cancer research or about companies that say: We need data from people in Austria for market research purposes. In this respect, a distinction must be made. That's why it's so important for us to keep it apart. Yes, we are clearly committed to research, to our research location and to science, but in Austria we cannot now wink commercial interests through the back door with this law. Mr Federal Minister, you will no longer have that in the future, but the Minister of Transport will decide. This is a very bad schnitzer in this law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order to improve the worst of Schnitzers, I should therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is, there are grey areas here. This is not just the position of the SPÖ, that is the position of many experts, and that is what we are bringing in here. I ask all parties to correct these most serious Schnitzers in this very serious law and to support this motion for a resolution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[10:31]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4861	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Fässmann is speaking on behalf of the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4885	Mr President. High house! I can submit three points to the Data Protection Adjustment Act – Science and Research, although I believe that much content has already been said in terms of sustainability and quality. My first point is a point that nourishes itself from one's own experience, including one's own research experience: Personal data are always superior to aggregated data. We must not risk misconceptions if we use aggregate data. The closing of aggregated data on the behaviour of individuals is only possible if you really have individual data, because otherwise, mistakes occur, which can also be very difficult when they are related to policy advice. Individual data, which we determine from samples, are usually always faulty. The samples are small, the confidence intervals are large, and the samples are very often not random samples, but often also somehow controlled samples. It is therefore personal data that we really want to use for science and research, and my first point is not contrary to what Mr Rendi-Wagner, Mr Niss and Mr Gamon have said. My second point, which I would like to make, is: The law, I think, is a good compromise between data protection interests and data usage interests. In particular, when I look at § 2d, I notice that every researcher and every researcher has high obligations when he or she accesses such personal data. Mrs Gamon, to your play with Mr Hubert, who is deanonymized by a researcher, a researcher, I say: This is already a violation of law, because the researcher or the researcher should not do so and should not then publish the data either. This is also regulated in § 2d. It is also regulated how to store the data in the computer, who has access to the rooms where data processing takes place. It must be logged, it must be published that in a case there is research with personal data. § 2d is to be considered for researchers. I really speak here from my own experience. If you work in this area, you make a proper commitment. This leads me to my third and last point: The law is complex. I think it's strict. In order for personal data to be fed to research at all – I see high barriers – we must do something from the Ministry, also together with the universities, to carry out information and to say how to deal with such personal data. My house will be in conjunction with those in § 2c Abs. One of the research institutions mentioned above, essentially the universities and the non-university institutions, must do something to bring this law into existence at all, because I believe that the barriers, as I have said, are very high. The universities must appoint Data Protection Officers. We from the Federal Ministry must cooperate with the Data Protection Officers from home. We think that in the ministry we will build something like a central point of contact to carry out consulting and information activities. We will have to issue something like a manual on how to deal with personal data, and we must also bring it into the service agreements, because I see the danger that there will then be too little research due to the high barriers. I feel that this law, as I said, is a reasonable proposal which weighs between data protection interests and data usage interests, and I can You, Hohes Haus, actually only recommend the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4945	Mrs Hammerschmid has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e4967	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Some may not know: I am actually a PhD molecular biologist and have also worked for eight years in medical research. That is why I too trust in an assessment of the Data Protection Adjustment Act 2018. Mr Smolle, I believe that your plea for personalised medicine and all that is associated with it, we can of course contribute to the SPÖ, because we also want banks to be available to advance medical research and development. For example, your bank, the Biobank of the University of Graz, is a real treasure, because it includes 7.5 million biological samples of human and animal origin, associated with the associated clinical and personal data and information, i.e. tissue samples, blood samples, saliva, other body fluids, cells and genetic material and DNA samples. That's a real treasure! This is a treasure for biomarker research, necessary for the more effective and effective use of therapies, because every person – you have also said – is to receive those drugs that really work because of his genetic nature and the framework conditions under which the person lives, and only these, and this is very well done with biomarker research based on the biobanks. We all know: It saves life. In my time at the University of Veterinary Medicine, we have also joined the tissue samples and the tissue bank of Vetmed, because the same applies to humans, of course, to animals. It is also clear that these tissue banks can be the basis and source of completely new therapeutic approaches and diagnostic methods. But what is inevitably linked to it and must be absolutely linked is the requirement that we really deal with patient data carefully, always in agreement with the patients. That's quite clear. As a former Minister of Education, I also often had myself – really often! – wishing that we can access the variety of data we have, to Pisa as well as to educational standard data, to the many data of Statistics Austria or also to the Bifie. Long-term studies could indeed have helped us to act much more effectively in the education system, and the use of these data would of course also be of immense importance and immense value in the development of schools. Politics, ladies and gentlemen, has the task of setting conditions that allow science to research for the good of man and create new things. However, politics also has the task of setting the framework conditions in such a way that people and their data are protected optimally and as far as possible. In this whole causa, I naturally support the direction of impact underlying the law, but one thing is already clear, and we have heard it many times today: Some things are not adequately regulated in the law. I am now taking up Philip Kucher's comments again, because it is also quite clear to us that access to the data should in particular have universities, public institutions, research institutions, but how this is regulated with entrepreneurial access is really a vulnerability. I say it again: Businesses get access to this data through a communication from the Minister of Transport – from the Minister of Transport, not from the Science Fund, from the Minister of Transport! – and the Frascati criteria are based on the following: novel, creative, uncertain regarding the final result, systematic, transferable and reproducible. Cambridge Analytica? Frascati? We discussed this in the Committee: A very clear one. No there was not in space; from your representatives, yes, but we have discussed with experts from the data protection field who have not seen it that way. [[towards Federal Minister Fässmann]] That means that it is important to look at it again and to turn a bit further at exactly this swivel. I also think it is illogical why those registers that we want to open should be regulated by regulation. Why are we doing so intrusive? Why this home-lighting away from Parliament? Let's make it clear what register we want to open, let's write it into the law! The last point – otherwise I talk for too long – concerns looking at the practice that has been practised on the basis of this law in a working group occupied by ministerial representatives: What's that? – It is all the more important that we install a truly independent evaluation, with national and international experts who can really investigate it independently – for practicality, for reliability and, in particular, for sufficient data protection. I really would ask you to think about it again, also in the sense of the motion for a resolution tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e5034	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Then let me repeat that we will come to the vote on supplementary, amending and supplementary amendments to Agenda items 8 to 11. [[Abg. Arbitrators: The law too! Not just the applications!]] – Yes, of course, and also about the basic proposal. [[10:42:58]] 6. Point report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (48 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the 2012 Party Law as well as the 2012 Party Promotion Act (101 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e5067	I shall continue with the agenda with item 6. There was no oral reporting. Mr Scherak is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e5096	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Nehammer is on the speaker's list right after me, and I can make his speech right now: He'll show up here and say we're saving in the system, not with people, we're saving in the system, not with people, and probably also that you're saving in the system. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with NEOS and SPÖ as well as with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] The only problem here is that ÖVP and FPÖ do not want to save in the system at all, but rather to create a cheap show effect here. Party funding in Austria is the highest in Europe, the second highest in the world, but Japan is still ahead of us. We have a Party funding of 142 million euros per year – 142 million euros, Mr Raddler; [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] You know what you could do with all this money. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Call:The wheeler doesn't know anything]] There is also plenty of funding, of course also for parliamentary and country clubs, which is very positive, because Parliamentary work is happening there, and there is support for political academies. In total, the Austrian parties and clubs receive more than 200 million euros a year, and that is, as has been said, the highest party funding in Europe. If we were to cut our party funding by 50 percent, we would still be above the level that Germany now has per capita, and I am actually convinced that Germany is also a functioning democracy and that we can seriously save in the system. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the Pilz list.]] What ÖVP and FPÖ do now is they do not save in the system, they want to suspend the valorization of party funding once. It is this serious contradiction that prevails with you: You don't want an increase and say you're saving in the system. – Unfortunately, this is not a saving in the system, which is a cheaper show effect and nothing else. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If you want to save in the system, then you need to change the system – that's kind of logical – and you must not just give up on valorization once. In order to save money seriously, you would have to abolish the valorization in general. They would have to abolish the valorization not only at the federal level, but also the corridor for the federal states, because the federal states can spend particu­lar funding in the framework of a corridor, and this valorization would have to be abolished accordingly. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I am now giving you a little help, then you can really save in the system, you only need to agree to our amendment that I am now submitting. [[Abg. Wöginger: We can also abolish ourselves!]] – Mr Wöinger, you do not need to abolish yourself, you should only seriously save in the system and not put yourself out here, say that we are saving in the system, and actually bring a cheap show effect. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Jarolim.]] [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, yes!]] To that end, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you want to save seriously in the system, you can do away with this unbearable valorization of party funding in the federal and federal states in relation to the corridor, then you could really do that, Mr Nehammer. I am excited what you will tell us now, where you will still be saving in the system and why you will not agree to this request. [[Congratulation with NEOS and list of fungus.]] [[Abg. Wöger: But can you still talk yourself?- Oh, my God!]] [[10:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e5305	The application is properly submitted, supported and under negotiation. Mr Nehammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e5330	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! We have now experienced truly intense days of a meaningful and also, as Mr Fassmann mentioned earlier, meaningful debate. This is my first budget debate in this form, in this expression, and I would not have thought that so many special features are visible in this debate. [[Abg. Rosary: If NEOS were no longer in Parliament, it would also be cheaper!]] . I need briefly to pay attention to Mr Scherak. [[Abg. Rosary: I would have another proposal: if NEOS were no longer in Parliament, it would also be cheaper!]] I don't know if you noticed that, but yesterday it was an interesting day, in the evening at the votes. Ladies and gentlemen, who have followed our plenary sessions – even in front of the television sets – may have noticed that Klubobmann’s core was not present at all in his own group’s requests, has not voted once, on such an important question as the question of the budget. [[Call:He had a interview]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: In contrast to the short!]] If we – and this is exciting for me – let the debate happen again now, I note that something has happened that I would not have thought possible, namely that the political competitor – and this speaks for this House and also for the political groups – is ready to accept our arguments that Mr Scherak is here and says NEOS: [[Abg. Arbitrators: Go, say this for a short time!]] Saving in the system is right and saving in the system is important! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ, NEOS and list fungus.]] This is a fine proof to me that parliamentary democracy, that appreciation in dealing with each other is actually being lived. The fact that these are not empty words has shown our budget because we say: discharge must be serious, discharge must be noticeable. We really want to relieve the families with the family bonus. We relieve small-income people by reducing unemployment insurance contributions. These are important and noticeable measures. How do we want to achieve this? – With saving in the system, you are completely right. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] I think it is an important proof of confidence from NEOS towards us, to the Federal Government, that they are going here and saying: We need to change this old form of politics, we don't take the people out of one bag and then put them in the other pocket, but tangible change actually only happens when you work on it. And we have a lot to do: We want to save 2.5 billion euros in the system, because we need all the support, that will also be a hard way, and we need your support for that, that is true. [[Abg. Jarolim: Put it in the basket!]] [[Abg. Jarolim: Go to Körberl!]] [[Abg. Drozda: In the basket!]] The Federal Chancellor has already made an important contribution in the discussion. Federal Chancellor Kurz said: If we save in the system, we have to start with ourselves. [[Abg. Lueger: That's right!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Drozda, Mr Wittmann and Mr Doppelbauer.]] All the political groups here in the house, including thanks, and also thanks for the support from the SPÖ, have contributed to the decision of the zero wage round for us. [[Abg. Jarolim: Carob money!]] Now it's about a mosaic stone again to save in the system. With this decision we do not increase the promotion of the parties this year. We also do not raise the election cost limit, we do not increase the reporting obligations. [[Abg. Drozda: Great!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] That means that this is an important sign, and it is admittedly just a mosaic stone; but this common path of saving will lead to a goal that is so important to us. In fact, this may also be an ideological contest with social democracy, because I invite you to take the path of good redistribution. What does good distribution mean? – Good redistribution means: from the state to the people. If you are supporting us by NEOS, I am even more pleased, and if social democracy is ready to understand this paradigm change in its policy, in order to say that it is a redistribution, away from the state, to the people, then it was indeed a good week for me. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e5544	Mr Noll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e5565	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! So either I am really that easy to excite, or what my colleague Nehammer said was really funny; a rather sympathetic rhetorical young talent, just no political head, with engagement, because it would have needed a little more evidence-basedness. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list, as well as on SPÖ and NEOS delegates.]] The promotion of the parties in Austria is too high, everybody knows that in this house. [[Abg. Wöginger: For the list of mushrooms...!]] In order to operate a little cosmetics, the Valorization is abandoned for a year. Mr Scherak has gotten a bit afraid of his own courage, otherwise he would have agreed to our request to reduce the promotion of the party to half, as he himself says well-founded. [[Abg. Scherak: You didn't make a request!]] . In the Committee we have proposed that we do this together, and there is clearly also an initiative proposal from us. To suspend the valorization at all is the better thing about what is made shameful and cosmetic here. In the election campaign, we called for the promotion of the parties to be reduced to half. That brought us into this house at a low level. We are still behind this demand, and everything else is actually one – how do the Germans say so beautiful? – Mounting to avoid using the appropriate Austrian word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e5621	Mr Arbitrator has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e5643	Ladies and gentlemen! I am doing a little hard to take the previous speech seriously, because I also learned in this budget week that full-bodied has been announced, one does not save with people, but in the system. In the final effect we then found: In the system, a lot of money has been hidden for your own propaganda, while at the same time reducing social security for people in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] [[Abg. Rosary: So the propaganda specialist is core that is not even there! Gentlemen! Faymann was still on the ads! We have always celebrated it.]] It is similar to this very serious issue. If, for example, the democracy centre says that without parties there is no political democracy, then I will become this typical European-Austrian model, where party platforms exist, where citizens will have a say and a right to participate in the big policy. That's not the only thing that matters that democracy works, but it needs parties. It also needs other solutions, but it also needs substantially functioning parties. It also needs clear rules, strictly controlled, transparency, donations that are not only disclosed but as limited as possible. The Americanization or, as one might say in the Austrian discourse, the turquoise way of Sebastian Kurz makes me worry about the party system, because that means: On the one hand, I populistly shorten the promotion of the parties, but on the other hand, I get the money through sponsors and donations, and at the same time I promise to limit the free mandate here in Parliament so that I also implement the fulfilment of what I promised the donors before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a way I don't want for Austria. I'm also not so blue-eyed or turquoise-like that I believe that You've been talking honestly now. In fact, it's exactly what you want: Get down with the parties under populist battling and at the same time fatten up the cabinet! 166 more posts for Mr Kurz and Mr Strache, at the same time millions for ads are put in the basket, so that you can make a nice opinion. [[Mr Nehammer and Mr Schnoll.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Ask at Kern!]] [[Abg. Gudenus: You know each other!]] At the same time, donations from Mr Pierer are taken and he is promised to make the laws he has ordered. - I don't want to! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Democracy in this country is not a take-away and drive-through, where I order what I want, like McDonald's. That's the difference! [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Democracy is much more than what you've been cleaning around all day in your speeches here on the pult. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Kolba.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Unmistakable! Mrs. Wehsely and Mrs. Frauenberger! Mr. Häupl!]] Ms. Linsinger moved on to the 14th place. In April a very wise editorial was written in the “Profile”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] She wrote: “Politics are not a cooking recipe or a pony court, but they work according to more complicated mechanisms – at least in the long run. [...] Some cross-country beginners’ – which has been related to the moderate performance of the government team – “is emerging as a veritable disappointment”. - Oh, how true! So, let's get to the law in concrete: In 2014, the Court of Auditors claimed that it needed a valorisation. This was basically a minor error in the Court of Auditors' calculations – we therefore do not have to name it in the offsetting court – because inflation is only 4.7 percent cumulatively, but the obstacle is only valid from 5 percent. This has to do with the fact that the Court of Auditors has begun to expect the wrong year. In this way, we decide this year to suspend the Valorization, which would not have come after strict consideration of the law – nothing. To make this clear: We are also in favour of freezing the promotion of the party in this year. Even more necessary, however, are improved rules for transparency. You still owe us a lot of money: improved rules for donations and improved and stricter rules for electoral costs, expenditure as well as donations. There you are, and there you should not only speak full-bodiedly, but at last do something, because that is the real danger to parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e5776	I would like to inform the next speaker once again: As the amendments and additional amendments tabled to points 1 to 5 are still working on our whole team, we must put the vote on this item on the agenda to 8 to 11. That is why we have not yet introduced it. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Will be critical!]] – Yes, it is so much work, and I believe that our Parliamentary Directorate is really working hard to be able to create a Croquis very carefully at the end of the day. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Again! This is not the first time! Painful!]] [[Abg. Rosary: But it doesn't matter when you vote, Mr. Kern is never here anyway!]] The next speaker is Mr Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e5840	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Now I have to work with colleagues Once again explain how the saving is: Saving the system would mean pumping less money into the system. Just because one suspends the valorization once and the amounts in the other years shoot up again, nothing is saved. If you do this the way you do the care money that has lost more than a quarter of its value in recent years, you might be able to talk about saving in the promotion of the party. Of course, this is not what this government is doing. On the contrary! It blows up the apparatus by, for example, putting secretaries everywhere in the ministries, all of which have their own staff, because people have to be provided. The entire young ÖVP-Clique must be provided somewhere. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] The liberals have been waiting a long time for them to finally come to the feeder of power. – That’s your savings, it’s putting money into your own pocket! [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] One must also look at the fact that in Austria we have not only the promotion of the party, but also the payment of party charges that are automatically retained. The dirty thing about this is that these amounts can then also be applied on a tax basis. So we still have an indirect party funding through the tax laws. In this self-service of the party apparatus, it is not taken into account that the chambers also operate party funding and that millions of people from the Chamber of Commerce into the Economic Association and from the Chamber of Workers to the SPÖ each year – that is also the state of the parties. [[Abg. Gudenus: There is only one oligarch party in Austria!]] Austria is a fat party state, and you are using it!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e5886	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Harald Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e5910	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting what can be learned if the government parties make a request that simply and simply this year the level of party funding is not increased. - That's the subject. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] There has been a debate in which, on the one hand, democracy with parties, as we see them, is clearly challenged and on the other hand a huge polemic is driven. In short, Mr Schieder says something I can agree with, but that was only for a short moment, then he suddenly opened up that democracy is actually in danger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger]] I really wonder how you've come to deliver such a polemic here when you know how the SPÖ has acted in recent years. The ad affair wasn't elsewhere, but it was exactly with you – Faymann, Kern – I can remember very well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] We know how it goes in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] I do not know why you want to start such a debate if you know how to finance parties through detours. [[Abg. Rosary: That's what they practice!]] [[Abg. Gudenus: SPÖ Vienna!]] The lowest part is the official promotion of parties, which is transparent. We can discuss these here that it will not be valorized. But whether the ads are valorized, whether the pressure will increase, that even more ads will come, we don't know that, and that's much more delicate. I would rather, we debate in Austria that the state is promoting parties. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] In Austria, we have decided to say: We do not want the parties to come into an immediate dependence on, for example, industrial companies. The debate on data protection was just before, on how sensitive it can be when industrial companies appear and say: Watch out, I pay you something, but I have these and those interests for it! That's a similar subject. That is why we agreed on this and said: Yes, the promotion of parties in Austria is relatively high in relation, but for that we have this system. It's transparent, you know where the money comes from. The expenditure will also be reviewed, so we can look at it. Another system in which industry, or any interest groups are behind it, is much less transparent and we know much less about how what is being controlled. So far, we have agreed on this – the NEOS are on a different line, which is clear to me now. One can now also polemize why they don't need the state's promotion of the party when the money comes from elsewhere, but I don't want to get involved now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] We can hold a calm discussion here on how transparent the system must be, from where money comes from – about pre-disposition organisations, certainly also about the chambers – how parties are really financed. We can discuss this, but what is stated here today is that we simply and simply said – of course, it is also a symbol –: We clearly point out that this year, in which we are presenting a budget, which is spent for the first time less than taken – this is always to be emphasized, because this also seems to be the reason for nervousness in this whole discussion, that one does not arrive – the promotion of parties is not raised. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] That's the whole subject. Of course, this isn't a system change or something, we don't want it either. We want to demonstrate that we are making our contribution. You can make fun of it now, you can make fun of everything, you can polemize about everything, but it is a clearly positive contribution. You have to acknowledge that, and that's why I'm trying to agree to everyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6003	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The vote will take place at a later date. I am therefore continuing on the agenda. [[11:05:34]] 7. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (69 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which a federal law on the award of contracts (Bundesvergabegesetz 2018) and a federal law on the award of concessions contracts (Bundesvergabegesetz Koncessionen 2018 – BVergGKonz 2018) are passed and the Bundesvergabegesetz Defense and Security 2012 is amended (Vergaberechtsreformsetz 2018) (96 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6037	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Alfred Noll was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6066	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! The Federal Procurement Act, as it now appears as a draft, is a big step, it represents a total big throw. If I were in the government, I would not be able to afford the luxury we afford today, namely that we still vote against it. I can also briefly explain why we will vote against it. One of the beautiful vocabularys of the new government policy, which I can hardly hear anymore, is the so-called Gold Plating. If you look through the contract law in the present form, then you come across different things that are made there: This is completely uninspired, without any independence being done exactly what our officials have been doing for decades, the EU directive is simply written down and written into the Austrian law, so that you do not give up all the independence that is so insanely important to you, ladies and gentlemen. The beautiful vocabulary of subsidiarity, which hangs in the clouds, is always in the mouth of national independence, and when it comes to concrete legislative work, sometimes there is nothing better for one than simply to write into Austrian law a European directive that is binding on implementation or simply to refer the words of the Austrian legislator to the European Directive as if there were binding legislative content. – It's just bad! Austrian law is rightly opposed to the Austrian courts, because this kind of legislation does not even make it possible for us to implement what might exist in independent Austrian legislation to the extent that it would be possible for us to do so. In particular, I refer to § 9: What is excluded from the obligation to tender is all legal services. You all probably know exactly – as you have all come to know – how the corresponding Article 10 of the Directive has been incorporated into Brussels: It was the lobbying of British and French major firms that made sure that, in Brussels, the major firms, the large Law Firms and also the American deputies of the Law Firms in Europe were exempted from the obligation to tender. And what are you doing? – Instead of using Austrian independence, simply write down the product of lobbying, as the directive says, without any need for it. - That's just bad work. We have called for a separate vote to be taken. Let's see what brings you together intellect and integrity!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6109	Mr Mag. Klaus Fürlingenrist of the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6134	High Bureau! Mr. Minister! It's a little hard for me to go to a lawyer's office. who complains that lawyers' benefits should not be covered by the invitation to tender, especially in view of the fact that in recent weeks some free professions have explicitly asked us to clarify what to calculate and what to write in. Mr President, you have recommended evidence-basedness to honourable Member Nehammer. I now have the privilege of speaking to you and of being able to give you a little bit of evidence-basedness and reality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] I do this for the reason that you have just considered this law with bad attributes, but it is neither sluggish nor sluggish or otherwise anything. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We must, of course, be aware that the right to award is an immensely complex matter. On the one hand, all entrepreneurs should have the same opportunities by knowing what they have to do, on the other hand, it is extremely important to support the public hand in this case, especially the communities, in order not to let them suffocate in bureaucracy. We have presented a draft law here, ladies and gentlemen, which has committed itself to the expediency, economy and economy, which contains the principle of considering our small and medium-sized enterprises – this is something very special, especially in the field of regional value added. The central objective of this draft law is to extend the best bidder principle and simplify the legal framework for public procurement, but also to modernise it. Let me give just a few examples: Exceptional provisions have been extended, the extension of the negotiation procedure itself, increased thresholds for direct procurement – that is absolutely necessary in the smaller area – an easier regime for special services, especially in the social and health fields, the free electronic availability of tender documents. Finally, we have also made a committee statement. Although we were deeply convinced that the concerns of some, especially the architects and the technical planners, had already been reflected in the text of the law, we still noted that only similar services in the same field must be combined. We use these spaces. I do a favor to you, Mr Noll, I do not use the term 'golden plates', but I am expressly referring to the fact that we have not overcrowded it to get it to the point. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This law is not a simple one, I believe it is obvious, we have experienced it in committee. At this point, we should also honor the legal service: What Dr. Michael Fruhmann of the Constitutional Service of the Federal Ministry of Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice has done in implementation and with great legalism, of which we were able to convince ourselves in the Committee, deserves special mention in this parliamentary debate. We thank him for his work.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6210	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Peter Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6239	Madam President. High house! I think that's a good law. It is also our draft, which has been in place for eight months and is now being implemented one too one. It has always failed with Mr Ottenschlager's objections, and I am glad that he has failed and is now finding that this draft, which we presented eight months ago, is also good for him. We always wanted to convince him that this was a good design. He didn't understand, but I'm glad – even late insight is a good insight – that he insists that the SPÖ proposal is the right one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am a little sorry that exactly this federal award law was one of those rules that led the ÖVP to fail to cooperate with the SPÖ. This is with absurd demands that have been filed into the law, which the liberals have not now accepted. - Congratulations! You've gotten through. The rules that the federal railways, which Mr Ottenschlager has repeatedly brought into negotiations, do not come directly, I am glad to say so. I consider this law to be a good law, a big throw. I believe that it contributes to facilitating calls for tender, flexibilization in the sub-suspension area. We have come to an extension of the quality criteria, we have essentially extended the best bidder principle, which also benefits Austrian companies, as they meet many social requirements required by these calls. All in all, this is a good law, and of course we will agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6279	Mr. Dr. Markus Tshankist the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6303	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! High house! A very big compliment to the new Federal Government, it has managed to transpose the EU procurement directives into a new procurement reform law within just a few months of ruling. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Noll.]] [[Abg. Plessl: Due to the SPÖ preliminary work! I think that's very smart!]] This is, of course, the working style that we call dynamic and competent. – Thank you at this point to the Austrian Federal Government for this really big throw. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] On this occasion, of course, I wonder what the nuclear SPÖ has done in the last two years. The bill was for processing in the Federal Chancellor's Office, where there was a competent Chancellor's Office. The transposition deadline for the Directive is already 18th. The ECJ has also brought an action against the Republic of Austria in April 2016. [[Abg. Wittmann: Ask the Ottenschlager!]] Ladies and gentlemen, my impression is that Mr Altkanzler Kern has apparently spent two years sleeping in thorns before he should have implemented this directive. There seems to be no one with you who would have kissed him awake. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] If the Austrian Federal Government had not responded quickly, penance payments would have been paid to the Republic in millions. These are really huge sums, ladies and gentlemen, and it is quite disappointing that the SPÖ Group has not addressed this in any way today. [[Abg. Plessl: You haven't listened before!]] [[Abg. Wittmann: You didn't learn anything!]] Let's maybe go a little in media res: The right to award is one of the most important legislative instruments and is about efficient and sustainable use of public funds. In 2010, the share of public procurement in the Austrian gross domestic product was around 15 percent. That is more than 60 billion euros a year, or that corresponds to a share of 18 percent of the European gross domestic product. The economic dimension of public procurement law is a huge, highly esteemed ladies and gentlemen, all the more so – once again! – I'm surprised that the SPÖ slept there for so long. [[Mr Plessl and Mr Vogl.]] You see, hardly are the liberals in the government – that is what you have to say – things are being implemented and things are no longer messed up, ladies and gentlemen. - That's the nice thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Plessl: But the ÖVP does not clap anyway!]] With this Austrian contract reform law, which now comes to the vote, the Austrian contract law for the 21st year will be applied. ==References====External links== A word about the cornerstones, because the Austrian population is supposed to know what this draft law is about: Simplification, flexibility of procurement procedures, access to the negotiation procedure will be simplified, greater flexibility and also significant simplifications in the sub-suspension area – this is important for smaller procurement and, above all, for the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship structure – and quality assurance – will be a central point – by further strengthening the best bidder principle. The cheapest bidder isn't always the best bidder. Especially in the weighting of award criteria, there is a point system – those that in practice have to do with it – which you can then often weight as you like and which is, of course, abuse-sensitive. If you come to the best bidder principle, you can keep it under control a little bit better. Finally, electronic procurement procedures come from 2018 – so to speak, the 21. ==References== This is about harmonised software solutions, including close coordination between entrepreneurs, federal authorities and countries, so that this can be handled electronically as well. A very special point is greater consideration of accessibility, which brings positive effects to people with disabilities. – This is a very important point. Finally, I would like to say a word to Mr Noll. I do not want to leave the accusation of the directive in this way. [[Abg. Noll: I think so!]] You know, the ECJ Judicature is of course relevant to Austria. The ECJ is dealing with certain interpretation issues, it is clear, and it would be so that at the second level, if we use other definitions, it would simply lead to constant gaps or demarcation problems, perhaps to dozens of innovations. Your proposal would therefore lead to a fairly legal chaos, if we think it to the end. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. No, thematic failure!]] In this sense, all of this is a big throw. – Thank you to the Austrian Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6459	Next, Mr. Dr. Nikolaus Scherak is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6481	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr. Tschank, I do not think that the SPÖ was due to the situation. There were different opinions in the two parties, and I am sorry that now, in this coalition, the ÖVP did not prevail with Mr Ottenschlager, because, of course, I would have found liberalisation in relation to the rails to be more exciting. Mr Hoyos will address it even more closely afterwards. What are we doing? – We are essentially implementing a European directive in connection with the right of procurement much too late. We are finally doing this, and we are going to do so very quickly with this, because it took so long before and has blocked SPÖ and ÖVP for so long, fortunately, the infringement procedure. It is mainly about forcing the best bidder principle; in many areas in Austria there is already that. I think this is very, very useful, because we have to say about this, and we have to say almost, a very low-cost bidder principle, which, without exception, has been applied to the price and has not looked at the cost of a product in a sustainable manner, the cost of maintenance, the cost of life cycle costs, and the need to extend the best bidder principle in other parts, that we look more at quality, that the quality of the products can be included much more effectively in the tender, and that at the end of the procedure – Mr. Tschank has already mentioned what the procurement law is aimed at – that we should use the means of taxation as efficiently as possible, and that not only at first glance, but also in the long term, and that we do not have any later costs that we could actually save ourselves in advance.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6511	Next, Mr Magistrate. Friedrich Ofenauerzu word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6535	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! We are currently debating the procurement reform law, whose objective is quite clear: It is intended to ensure fair and transparent allocations and to make these procedures easier and more flexible. This is important if one considers that in Austria more than 60 billion euros are invested annually by contracting authorities, and above all our nearly 2 100 communities, which are therefore a very important economic factor. Of course, communities have several interests: simple and flexible procedures, on the one hand, they want to deal with their high-quality projects, but also cost-effectively, so that the regional economy can also be encouraged and thus safeguard jobs in the region, as this will restore expenditure on projects to local taxes on the other hand. All of this ensures our regional enterprises, because they know the project area, are easily tangible in the face of problems, and above all they are known to work. It is very important to point out that the best bidder principle is to be improved by applying the award according to quality criteria and not purely after the price. It will be possible to get the best possible quality to get a cheap price, but not only to look at the price. If not only the price is looked at, but above all social, environmental, innovative aspects are also taken into account, this also brings us something in preventing social and wage dumping. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is important to me – since our debates and our speeches also serve to interpret the intentions of the legislator – to point out also what is to be understood by the aggregation of services. In the case of the award of service contracts, contracts should only be aggregated if they are services of the same subject area. A concrete example: If a community wants to build a firehouse or a municipal office, but does not yet know exactly how it should look, then it can first design an architect's competition, pick up preliminary drafts, and only then, after selecting such a preliminary draft, order the planning services. This preliminary draft and the planning services are then not to be calculated together. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are taking a big step in the right direction with this procurement law, because of course the public hand is also a model. We are directing the economy in the right direction, away from a low-cost, low-cost humanity, towards an economically sustainable, innovative and, above all, high-quality approach.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6581	Mrs Melanie Erasim's next speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6602	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! This law is a good law, as it ensures the survival of many Austrian companies. With 300 pages it is a very long law, but it includes a lot of things required by us as social democracy. It includes, among other things, the mandatory best bidder principle in the bus sector, it continues to allow direct awarding in the railway sector, including according to EU legislation, but also provides legal protection for railway undertakings – especially for those who had the possibility of awarding it. However, this law is merely the basis. It must be filled with life, among other things in terms of the best-, instead of the cheapest bidder principle in the sense of bus drivers. Against social and wage dumping, the foreign exchange is here. In this respect, however, all the federal states are also invited to appreciate in the implementation of bus transport orders those companies that have well-trained staff and fair conditions of employment and offer young and older workers prospects. Social dumping with taxpayers must have an end because winning tenders on wage dumping is truly not an art. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, this also requires that the tenders are designed in such a way that this quality is required. With this pass long required by the SPÖ, there is now the possibility to do so. Now I would like to focus briefly on the possibility of direct awarding in the railway sector as contained in the law, and I must say that it is already all kinds of things! Unfortunately, I cannot personally address colleagues Ottenschlager, since he has not been in the hall for a long time, because it has required a very large-scale social dialogue between the Chamber of Commerce and the trade union Vida “Sag Yes to the train in Red White Red” that this could finally be implemented. [[Abg. Gudenus: Like the Lord Kern!]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Core, Arbitrator...!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] . I am pleased if you become smarter if you fail to respond to our proposals and in the sense of the Austrian companies change your opinion on the better. Now the countries are, now the government is in favour of implementing direct awarding to our red and white-red railways, a better offer for passengers and high-quality jobs must be the goal. We call on the Federal Government, together with the countries by autumn, to present concrete results in the framework of the so-called pre-announcements in order to give legal certainty to companies and employees. Our position was and is clear: We do not want Austrian taxpayers to finance large-scale international transport companies, thus endangering the ÖBB success project. The Austrian Federal Railways are the most successful across the EU, and I suggest that we continue to work together in such a way that this economic locomotive will continue to be an Austrian one in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6664	Next speaker: Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6685	Madam President. High house! It is a strange situation that I am now standing and sad that colleagues Ottenschlager is not in the hall because I am very sorry that he has not enforced himself in this legislative process. We have the situation that we order annually at the railway companies, especially at the ÖBB – so we call it – as many people kilometres we want so that people can continue to be transported. If you look at this over the past few years, it is exciting that this number of kilometres has increased dramatically, especially in long-distance transport, but in general, and that also always says the SPÖ, indeed would be competitive. In other words, we have the situation that competitive long-distance transport is being further promoted, but in contrast to that, the local transport, which is always said to be, is not competitive, stagnated – and also becomes more expensive when we look at it more closely. So it stagnates and becomes more expensive. A strange situation, and it is the question of why we do not at least start calls for tenders in long-distance transport – I would also write out local transport, but at least in long-distance transport. We have already submitted applications on this issue – for example, we have already submitted a request for the end of the direct award; it is currently in some committee, and I have the feeling that, unfortunately, it will remain for a very long time – but I still believe that it is important that we start competitive calls soon and do not wait until 2023 – because until then, according to the European Union, we have time. What does the government make up-to-date? – The government is currently making quick calls for tenders in some federal states, namely Carinthia, Styria, Tyrol and Vorarlberg, with as long a time as possible – this is also an absurd system that federal states, the Transport Association and the Federal Government are giving up these orders and we are not doing so together – so that there is no direct award in 2023. I consider this to be deeply responsible and therefore I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[11:33]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6814	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6847	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Two days ago we discussed the agricultural budget here in the High House, and the question was how to help farming in Austria. One important area is food trade: By buying local, Austrian food, you can, the consumers can support our rural agriculture – and they do, and I say that to you and to consumers too, a warm thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Another area is the export of domestic food. Exports of high-quality, safe Austrian food are increasing, that is, our food is in demand in Europe but also overseas, and this also helps our agricultural agriculture. An important aspect, however, is also the diet, the preparation of food in canteens and in public kitchens. In Austria, around two to two and a half million food is consumed out of the house every day, that is, in innhouses, in restaurants, as well as in hospitals, in kindergartens, in barracks, and it is so that it often occurs that no domestic food is used. There was, for example, the situation that during the milk crisis, when we had too much milk in Austria, we found milk from abroad in barracks, or that suddenly vegetables from abroad were sold in hospitals with high-quality food. I don't want to make these goods bad, but fact is: Although we also use domestic food in the kitchens, this helps a small-structured farm. That is why it was important that we first abolished the best bidder principle and introduced the best bidder principle here in the High House about two years ago. This means that not the low price is the decisive criterion, but that it is also a matter of quality when public procurement is made, for example in hospitals, in old-age homes, in kindergartens, in barracks. At that time, for a certain number of foods, it was introduced that one can also use a quality criterion. – I shorten the discussion: Practice has shown that the low price was often overvalued in these public tenders and that this did not work properly. This best bidder principle is now being developed, and a so-called horizontal best bidder principle is being introduced. That is, when the contracting authority, the public hand, writes, one can introduce a quality criterion that is an exclusion criterion. For example, if in the food sector the AMA seal is cited as a condition – that is, the only approved quality seal for a food – and the contractor does not fulfil this, he does not receive the order. In other words, the low price is not crucial, and this is very important for local agriculture and forestry. If we introduce this, we will benefit from agricultural agriculture, because there is a study by the University of Linz, which says that if we consume 10% more domestic food, then about 20,000 jobs are created, and this We shouldn't miss a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6907	Next came Mr Klaus Lindinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6928	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, he is not present right now, has addressed the trans-regional rail links. I'd like to hold on to one thing: Preparation for competition with regard to trans-regional rail links is also included in the government programme. But one thing is clear: This must also be well prepared accordingly, and this also takes some time. Now on the reform package concerning the federal awarding of the Federal Republic of Germany 2018: If we decide today, then the essential facilitation of the award of contracts for the clients, for the entrepreneurs, for the small and medium-sized enterprises and thereby strengthens our economy. However, I would also like, as Mr Berlakovich has said, to focus briefly on a partial aspect, namely the award or the award criteria for the purchase of food. Every day more than 2 million servings are spent in factory kitchens, schools, kindergartens and also in hospitals, nursing homes and old age homes. The annual consumption of food in the Community is 1.5 billion euros. What does this law mean in practice? – The colleague referred to it: In addition to the price, there is at least another quality criterion when determining the recipient. This, of course, depends on objectively comprehensible criteria, such as environmental criteria, energy efficiency or waste prevention. Secondly, it is about extending to all foods, not only meat, milk, butter, fruit and vegetables, but also all foods, including processed foods, such as cheese or yogurt. In recent years, invitations to tender have sometimes come up with results that we all could not understand. At extremely low prices, the old law was removed. An example: A few years ago, the Social Assistance Association in my district made the call for food for an old-age and care home. The supplement for this has been given to a dairy farm from abroad – instead of the dairy farmer in his own place. You can see that something's going wrong. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] But with this law today, we are creating change! What's this about? – Our farmers produce food of the highest quality. This is precisely why there must also be appropriate criteria for drawing on, as already mentioned, the AMA seal as a quality criterion. Finally, it is a win-win situation for all parties involved: Value added remains in the country, our farmers can sell their products, jobs are secured, and all those who cost get their food prepared from the best products. One thing is clear: not the price, but the quality should be crucial to what ends up on the plate of consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6998	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 69 of the supplements. There is a request for separate vote by Mr Noll. First of all, I want to vote on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on this subject. 1 § 9 para. 1 Z 9 as amended by the Government template. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in the third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Douglas Hoyos, colleagues, on the creation of a study on direct marketing. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[Abg. Wöginger: For what have we now voted separately?]] [[Abg. Kassinger: I didn't understand it either!]] [[11:42:24]] 8. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (17D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act 1975, the Public Prosecutor's Act and the Telecommunications Act 2003 (Strafprocedural Change Act 2018) (92 d.b.) 9. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (66, d.e._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union, the Criminal Code 1975 and the Federal Law on Cooperation in Financial Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union (93, e.g.) 10. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (15D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Safety Police Act, the Road Traffic Regulations 1960 and the Telecommunications Act 2003 (88 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Subject: Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM(88) 588 final — Doc. No to the ÖVP/FPÖ monitoring package! (89 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7068	We come to points 8 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr. Dr. Johannes Jarolim is the first to speak in the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7098	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Before entering the agenda, on behalf of Mr Wittmann, I should like to ask the question why Mr Ottenschlager did not speak at the previous item on the agenda. I'd like to follow this up because I'd like to know myself. You can then also answer the question outside, it does not have to be within the framework of this debate. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the – of us so-called – uncertainty package. We're talking about the federal trojan. We are talking about many things that could change the world in Austria in a way that, I think, is not really aware of many. In my opinion, the measures are obviously intended to conceal what a disastrous situation within the security device is currently in place. Our police are not equipped accordingly. There are far too few police officers, we have a substock of about 15 percent. I would like to congratulate the Minister on what has at least been foreseen on the paper. I can only hope that this will really be implemented. Her predecessor has always announced that, but it has not worked. [[Federal Minister Kickl: (with circular movements of the shoulders and the angled arms) We are already going...!]] We have one of the worst-equipped police bodies in all of Europe, you have to see. That is why this debate on the Federal Trojan is intended to convey to the people who are outside the country that we have once and for all solved the security issue with this only measure, namely the Federal Trojan, which costs a few million euros a year. That's just not the case. They didn't tell people how the current situation is. That's what's being tricked away. In my opinion, this is an eye-catching; not least when we look at the judicial debate that we have led to the budget. How is the situation there with security? What did you do to help? – There it is that you have saved 40 percent of the technology, computer and digitalization, although this is actually the environment for the fight against crime, for the fight against organised crime. You saved up there. If you look at all of this now, you don't fit it together on the one hand and on the other hand, and on the other hand, it shows that what you're doing is a pure eye-catching, something preferable, which doesn't come at all: a security by the Federal Trojan – which, in reality, brings uncertainty to the people of the country. That's what I'd like to blame you here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We all know that when you take the terrorist attacks of recent years and analyze them, it becomes clear – and this confirms to you all the intelligence services and actually everyone who deals with matter – that they have been primarily practiced by those who have already been known by the police. With careful research, this could have been prevented by careful control, as these people are already known. They explain to us that we need the Federal Trojan to recognize the people, but there is no such case. It is also true, however, that the Federal Trojan itself represents an immeasurable potential for men outside. He works in such a way that he is anchored on the systems, on the mobile phone itself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] This leads to the automatic transfer of access to all other mobile phones that have ever been in contact with the person, if anyone is suspicious – and suspect is soon someone – that is the further development of this federal trojan. Experts expect this to be between 200 and 400 people per access. Now you have to imagine this: These 200 to 400 people have nothing to do with the act at all, but are now automatically tuned over the phone so much that you can read everything that is stored on the phone! There are American professors who say – and we also know that it is actually so – that the mobile phone is basically nothing more than an extension of the brain. That is, everything is stored on it, like what you want, what you don't want, and it all comes to the public. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot forbid you to decide on this today, but I do not really think that the necessary care has been taken when dealing with this measure and the possibility to achieve it differently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] At the time, we have asked Minister of the Interior Sobotka to evaluate what measures there are, where the weaknesses of these measures are and how to eliminate them in the classical, traditional way. Unfortunately, he didn't do it, so we did it ourselves. It has come to the conclusion that it is enough if we have 15 percent more police officers – regardless of what the government programme now provides – and they are also equipped accordingly, but not with equipment that is a rooster, but with a truly appropriate equipment. That would have enabled us to clarify all of this. I don't know how this will continue now when the first deployments come. We can expect that the behavior will be different, because everyone who now has a mobile phone in the country has to expect it to slip into this pursuit due to any search and his inner life – like his longings or his fears – to be read more or less suddenly by someone. We also know – and this has shown the BAT affair – that data abuse is not an individual case. I wish you all the best for this beautiful new world. We will certainly not fail anything in the future to fight against this nonsense and to say: There are alternatives. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Amon and Mr Deimek.]] Why you didn't apply them, we don't understand!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7170	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Harald Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7194	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to a part of the security package, which refers to the Criminal Procedure Change Act. There are essentially four points. The first point is the so-called Imsi-Catcher – you could certainly speak English as well – with which you can localize mobile phones. That already exists, and that is now explicitly regulated by law. The second point is the new regime for the confiscation of letters. There are clear orders that this should be possible in the event of a criminal threat of more than one year and judicial order. This is, of course, a fundamental right intervention, not a question. The third point is the so-called event data storage, sometimes also referred to as Quick Freeze. The fourth point is the monitoring of encrypted messages, sometimes also referred to as federal trojans. One has to predict that this security package was presented in itself during the last legislative period, at that time by ÖVP and SPÖ, and we as FPÖ have very strongly criticized this for various reasons. We rejected that when it was presented. There was then a review process with very many opinions and now a second review procedure in this legislative period. I also have to express my gratitude for the fact that the opinions from the review process and also those of the experts who have been invited to an expert group have been clearly incorporated or taken into account in this Criminal Procedure Change Act. I am very grateful for this, and this must also be given to the legislative service that it is. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Whoever now calls out here has not looked at it, because the law is so clearly improved, in the sense of fundamental rights protection, that we can agree with good conscience today. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You have to say quite clearly: There is always a need for a balance between security needs and the possibilities of law enforcement authorities on the one hand and fundamental rights on the other. It is perfectly clear that it will not work without fundamental rights intervention, but if you do so, it must always be done in such a way that legal protection is ensured that a judicial order is necessary to ensure that monitoring is given, that protocols are made, that the persons concerned are informed accordingly and so on. – All of these things are clearly taken into account. In particular, I would like to address two points: The first point is the so-called event data storage. We had a big discussion years ago about data storage, that is, that really all communication data are stored over a certain period of time. We have rejected this very massively, and then it was also thanks to the European Court of Justice that it would have been a storage, a mass surveillance without occasion. We have always rejected that. We said: If, then there must be surveillance not in width, but in depth, so not mass surveillance, but only on a concrete occasion. That now offers this so-called event data storage. In other words, in case of a specific suspicion, you can store the communication data of a person for a certain period of time, and then you need a judicial authorization in order to use the stored data. This is a completely different process – not mass monitoring, but monitoring based on a concrete suspicion. That is what we wanted, and that is why we are satisfied with this measure. The second point – and certainly very delicate – is the monitoring of encrypted messages, also called Bundestrojans. I am right for Mr Jarolim, very many of the measures are to ensure that normal police work is carried out, very much has to do with the equipment, has to do with the workforce. We agree on this, and this has also been a matter for the budget. We have been discussing this for a long time, and thank God there is a very great progress, and it will be very much done. There are certain gaps, however, which one simply cannot accept if one takes law enforcement seriously. The so-called encrypted messages are one of these gaps. This is an end-to-end encryption that you really cannot crack so immediately. The classic examples are WhatsApp, which uses a lot of people, or Skype, where you can't actually crack this encryption with technical means. That's why you have to choose a detour, because you can't just say: Well, there's always the possibility of phone surveillance! – Mr Jarolim has previously meant that everyone can already be monitored. In principle, it would also be possible to read those WhatsApp messages after appropriate phone monitoring, but you can't. That's why you have to say: It must not be that criminals simply switch to WhatsApp. – This seems to be already happening in the hearing protocols: Well, let's switch to WhatsApp or Skype, then you can't listen to us anymore! – That would be much too easy, so you have to find a solution – of course, while weighing the protection of fundamental rights on the one hand and the need for law enforcement on the other. There is now this possibility to use the so-called Federal Trojan. That's a malicious software that's right. This is a program that is specifically played on a mobile phone so that you can read the surface – perhaps simply formulated – there. That is, you can then read what is happening on this phone, so you don't need to go into the encryption, but read what messages will be sent and received. [[Abg. Wittmann: And everything else too!]] – That’s quite right, you’re fully monitoring the mobile phone. It is therefore also very delicately formulated by reading it through. [[Interlocutory calls from Mrs Wittmann and Mr Plessl.]] These Germans can only be used with a penalty of more than ten years, with acts of terrorism and with certain other crimes, such as sexual offences, with more than five years of threats of punishment, so it is really strictly limited. It is not as it has been in the past that it has sometimes been said to combat terrorism, and then it has been used in small crimes. That's a very narrow limit. [[Abg. Wittmann: It was also accused of terrorism!]] That's something like the big noise attack. In the face of certain threats of punishment, people can be monitored throughout their lives. This is already acceptable, but with very big obstacles. With the same measures, with the same obstacles, we are also doing so, for we are aware of how delicate it is to enter a mobile phone because, as has already been said, the entire life is stored there. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] But now you have to go one step further. There is now a very clear message concept in the law, which is also a progress. You can only read messages. And yes, the corresponding programs, which can only read the messages, are not yet available. That's right, that's why we also have an advance period for this law. In reality, there will only be this in two years, and only in two years will there be these programmes. I also hope that there will be an Austrian added value if you comply with these programs - - - Yes, there are the people in Austria who can do that, you just have to let them do it, and then they do it quite specifically, and so we don't buy any programs. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: Well, please!]] I don't think it's all right for you to laugh at it, because it's actually like that. We can do this very well, just in this special area we have God thanks to experts in Austria. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] And there are not only the professionals who criticize this, but also the professionals who can do something. However, I do not want to ignore a subject that is certainly still being discussed today: There is a major counter-argument against this German, namely that the state is interested in the fact that there are security gaps. You have to imagine this: The Bundestrojaner is not a program that can be widely used, but you need your own program for every operating system, for each update, so it will actually be an expensive measure. That is, if someone makes an update on his cell phone, you may need a new program that you need to install there. It is therefore by no means a mass surveillance, but a very concrete, even very complex measure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger:... this program is then... Value added in Austria!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – Of course, the program is a value added if you have this know-how, you can even sell it internationally. That would be great if the Austrians showed how only to catch the news and not perform total communication monitoring because we don't want to. Now the state is interested in buying it, that's quite right. This is technically possible. [[Abg. Wittmann: No, that's exactly wrong!]] - No, it's technically possible. Although it is necessary to intervene in the entire system, it is technically possible to read only the messages. [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ.]] And this is our approach: We are going into the depths – with all the legal protection measures that are necessary, with all the forerunner that is necessary, according to the great noise attack. And it is a necessity, we must face up to this discussion, and that with all the legal protection measures. That's why I'm very glad that we've defamed all these things here, that we said, yes, it must be, we need this measure, because everything else – to say, WhatsApp I just can't look at and people should skype as they want, and I just can't listen there – is simply not an alternative. In fact, we could not accept that it is so easy to avoid that. Therefore, this measure, which is clearly perplexed and guaranteed for comprehensive legal protection, comes into force. That is why I am very glad that there has been this great, long discussion and the forerunner and that we can present today such a good law to which we Liberals, as I said, can now accept good conscience in all the criticism we had before.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7342	Mr. Dr. Nikolaus Scherak is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7363	Madam President. Federal Minister! If you listen to colleagues Stefan, you have the feeling that this monitoring package is all very nice. Unfortunately, however, it is still an ongoing attack on the fundamental and freedom rights of people in this state and it is a further step towards the comprehensive surveillance state. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] Mr Kickl asked the committee that we should be moderate. [[Interference of Federal Minister Kickl.]] I found this funny – we have already explained that – because as an opposition politician you were not so temperate in tone either. The problem, however, is actually another: Mr. Federal Minister, I think you know the duck test. If something comes up like a duck, if something quacks like a duck, and if something looks like a duck, then it's a duck. [[Federal Minister Kickl: Or someone dressed as a duck!]] The same applies to the monitoring package: If you make us a monitoring package, you can't blame us that we also titulate it as what it is, a comprehensive monitoring package. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] Mr Stefan, you are right that the whole thing would have been even worse if the ÖVP had fully enforced itself on its own. Nevertheless, the quote of the Federal Minister for the Federal Trojans, when he said that this was a far beyond the goal of the Federal Trojans, is still correct, but today you simply agree with this over the target-shooting Federal Trojans. The Federal Minister also said that this security package reflects the authoritarian pattern of the ÖVP. With today's day, the FPÖ adapts to the authoritarian pattern of the ÖVP and simply agrees with this monitoring package. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] Previously, colleague Stefan meant a federal trojan, just as you imagine him – that he can only access news – there is not yet. That's right, that's not yet available, and if you're talking to experts, then everyone – so everyone I've talked to – and I've talked to a lot of people – tells you that the hope for this federal trojan, who can only access these news, is like the desire for warm ice-creams. It's impossible to think, it doesn't work, it always has to access the entire device, and it always has the ability to access all the data that is on this device, and that's the big danger to the whole thing. [[Abg. Plessl: And to change!]] [[Abg. Amon: You don't know that at all!]] The problem is that with today's day of Internet security, the Federal Government decides that we deliberately want to keep security gaps open, that we are doing exactly what criminals and hackers are looking forward to finding open vulnerabilities and then getting into the corresponding devices. Mr Amon will certainly say afterwards that if the vulnerabilities are there, we should also use them. Mr Amon, first of all, you have not read your own government programme, because there is big and bold inside “the goal is to close digital security gaps”, and second, a mistake in thinking, because if these vulnerabilities are present, we must be of our own interest in closing them and not keeping them open so that they can still be used. [[Abg. Amon: You won't believe it, I read it!]] [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] Mr Stefan mentioned that it is only possible to use the Federal Trojan only in the case of crimes that are threatened with more than ten years of imprisonment. That's right, it's in the current bill. However, you have also read your explanations in which it stands, if it is then sometime cheaper and easier, then we evaluate this and see that we screw down the admissibility requirements. You already have the announcement that this will be used for very different things, and I find that problematic. At the moment you can buy these vulnerabilities, these Trojans only on the black market. In principle, I find it quite difficult to think that the Austrian Federal Government is now going to the black market and is trying to buy Bundestrojans there. [[Abg. Amon: You have no idea!]] [[Abg. Steinacker: This is really not true!]] They also cost a lot, and it is a damage software, as Mr Stefan rightly pointed out. Such a malicious software, originally intended to be used as a federal trojan, is the famous WannaCry malware. They know what happened to it; she has almost self-employed and has paralysed hospitals throughout the globe. [[Abg. Stefan: How do you do it? What is your solution for WhatsApp?]] These are the means you want to work with in the future, and that's fucking dangerous. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] [[Abg. Stefan: Yes, yes, but how do you want to solve it?]] They also want large-scale video surveillance. [[Abg. Stefan: How do you want to solve it?]] – There is no solution, Mr Stefan, because it is technically impossible. [[Abg. Stefan: That means you can't look in there?]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Free ride for criminals!]] Look, you're probably just as ignorant as I am – I admit that – but every technician tells you, it's simply not soluble, and that's why you have to accept that it's not soluble. [[Abg. Steinacker: But do you know the tests?]] The thing you do is to access the entire device and thus endanger the privacy of citizens. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinacker: Selective perception!]] You also want large-scale video surveillance of motorways, access to the Asfinag cameras – I know you don't see that so closely – so you can create motion profiles. This is, of course, an indiscriminate and suspicious mass surveillance which will be difficult to reconcile with the case law of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] With your regulations here and today, you have raised the secret of letter, one of the oldest fundamental rights in Austria. What you call Quick Freeze, i.e. incidental data surveys – that's right, that's better than the storage data specification – is therefore also so problematic, and you know that, of course, because you want to use this in crimes that are threatened with more than six months of imprisonment. You also know that the European Court of Justice has clearly stated that it should not be possible to carry out such a data query in the event of crimes with such a low risk, but only in the event of serious crimes. They decide here, consciously and contrary to better knowledge, a clearly European law that is illegal. They have also provided for localization by the Imsi-Catcher; you also know that much, much more can be done than what you really want. You can do this with these Imsi-Catchers in the future – yes, you can do it now, but just because you can already do it now doesn't make it better – without a judicial decision to listen to telephone calls. [[Abg. Stefan: You can do that now!]] [[Abg. Stefan: Now we can at least regulate it by law!]] You continue to provide for the registration of prepaid SIM cards and say that you want to catch the perpetrators. What You do, it's: They put 5.1 million Austrians who have such a prepaid SIM under general suspicion and at the same time forget that if a criminal wants to buy a SIM card, he can easily drive to Bratislava and buy a prepaid SIM card there. – This is your solution to stop offenders from crimes; that is, of course, absurd. There were rarely any Members of the ÖVP who have been committed to protecting fundamental and freedom rights. [[Abg. Amon: Exactly!]] We know that you have had the storage of data, you want the passenger data storage, you wanted access to the account register without judicial decision, you like surveillance cameras, you like the federal trojan. There was, however, a liberal prelude at the ÖVP once. They all know the former justice officer of the ÖVP Michael Ikrath. He warned in a broadcast of this monitoring package that the “deep, unwarranted” cuts in the fundamental rights of the population which are not in line with the fundamental justice of VfGH, EGMR and ECJ, and warns against this “dramatic step from the liberal rule of law to a police surveillance state”. – That’s what the former justice officer of the ÖVP says. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you were once something like an economic party, you were supposed to be once a European party. Now you are the monitoring party of Austria and have found with the FPÖ a willing fulfillment assistant. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] [[Abg. Hi, hello!]] [[Abg. Haider: Neither willful nor helper, my dear!]] Finally, Mr Federal Minister, let me read to you a quote of one of your statements – you will know what is coming now, but it is also quite important in the debate –; You said about this monitoring package: “All in all, this package reminds us of Erich Mielke’s fantasies, as Minister of State Security, who was one of the main responsibility for the development of the comprehensive DDR control and surveillance system.” [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] [[Call to the FPÖ: What cares about us yesterday's chatter has already said Adenauer!]] Mr. Federal Minister, you are now responsible for introducing these comprehensive monitoring possibilities in Austria. [[Abg. Wittmann: What the short of you is!]] I'll tell you: With Erich Mielke you really took a bad example.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7725	Next speaker: Mr Werner Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7746	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scherak, you have offered a whole range of uncertainties here, and I really have to say that this is actually an almost unusual way for NEOS. They usually try to be very specific, but here you really have been uncertain to an extent how you can only regret it; I really want to say that. [[Abg. Scherak: Yes, I did!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] That you are strengthening organised crime here – you want to enable the Austrian authorities in individual cases, in the event of serious crime, not to be able to monitor messenger services; [[Abg. Jarolim: Please stop!]] [[Abg. Kolba: That's nonsense!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] You know, this is limited to organised crime, organised crime and terrorism – I must honestly say, it does not speak for the NEOS. I would like to tell you this clearly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: That's a joke!]] It is also remarkable that you say on the one hand that the ÖVP would never have been committed to fundamental rights at all, and then quote our former judge. [[Abg. Scherak: I rarely said!]] How could he, if he was so great in the protection of fundamental rights, at the time be justice spokespersons of the People's Party? [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: His time is the right word!]] [[Abg. Scherak: That's what he's asking himself now! That's why he's not sitting there anymore!]] Somehow, my colleague, this is not going to work together. But who really surprised me today was Mr Jarolim. Unfortunately, he is now no longer there, I would very much like to respond to his speech, because he today presented the state of the Austrian police – how badly they are equipped, that everything is simply terrible and that it is flawed from the last hole – in an incredible way. [[Abg. Noll: He's gotten himself safe!]] It is already remarkable how to lay any responsibility for decades of co-government ad acta within a few weeks. That's really remarkable. This is obviously also what your party chairman, who is training only for the Carinthian Marathon and who no longer thinks it necessary for two days to attend the debate, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would like to write to Mr Jarolim of a master book – I hope Mrs Lueger sees this as something different as a security spokesperson, perhaps the judge has no idea of the police, that may be; it would surprise me, because then he says it against better knowledge –: There are a number of international investigations that review the objective and subjective sense of security of the Austrians every year. [[Abg. Noll: They are all soothing!]] I can tell you that in these investigations Austria is always one of the five safest countries in the world. That was in itself your co-responsibility, which you no longer want to realize, because you say it's all in a terrible state. The Cobra, our anti-terrorist unit, is once again a ruling world champion of the anti-terrorist units in the world. By the way, she has been through many times and many years. You should also take note of this, which should make all of us proud together, but for you the police are in a terrible, pitiful state, as Mr Jarolim describes. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: No worse than the state of the ÖVP!]] We have one of the best police trainings in the world. [[Abg. Wittmann: What does that have to do with the Trojan?]] Furthermore, we are also among the countries that have one of the longest police trainings. Our police officers and officers are constantly being asked for internationally and are on the go worldwide to train others in good polishing, and they are a worldwide sought-after interlocutor. [[Abg. Duzdar: What does this have to do with the Federal Trojan?]] This is what Mr Jarolim has been saying today. I think it is really very disappointing to hear from a large, state-bearing government party, and I would like to tell you that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: Don't you want to talk about the subject, Mr. Colleague? Mr Stefan has at least dealt intellectually with this!]] We have negotiated the State Protection Act together for two years, and, as I believe, we have put in place a very good, balanced law that finds a good balance between security on the one hand and the necessary freedom on the other. There were opposition parties – by the way, there were NEOS also there, if I was not fooled by everything, no, they were not there – which in the debates have repeatedly called it unconstitutional. [[Abg. Scherak: No!]] The Constitutional Court took a different view: The Constitutional Court has given us the right to consider this State Protection Act to be constitutional, and this is a co-founder that we have succeeded in avoiding possible attacks in Austria in good time. Let us be glad that we have so far been spared by the use of the authorities and by good legislative measures from such attacks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] A few more sentences on the security package that you deliberately call a monitoring package. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: After all!]] [[Abg. Wittmann: Is it too!]] I would like to face this massively because it is not a monitoring package. We allow security authorities to access images of airports, subways and motorways, which are already available, with these legal measures. [[Abg. Plessl: They can do that now!]] This data is already available today. [[Abg. Plessl: That's the way it is!]] We are now putting it in a legally sound framework that the security authorities may, on occasion, access these existing data. This has nothing to do with mass surveillance – as you call it, Mr. Scherak – in the event of an event, in the event of open surveillance, with legal protection subordinated, and in the individual case, in the hidden case, as in the case of messenger services, an order by the prosecutor, an approval by the judge takes place in advance. Mr Stefan has presented this in detail. This has nothing to do with mass surveillance. What you are doing is mass uncertainty, Mr Scherak! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The concept pair of freedom and security is so gladly confronted, is presented as being in opposition to each other. But I'm telling you: There is no freedom if there is no appropriate security measures. The fact that our country is one of the safest countries in the world speaks for the rule that we have in this country, and it remains, because data protection must never serve the protection of criminals. I'd like to have told you that.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8052	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Alfred Noll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8074	Madam President. Gentlemen at the ministerial bank! Members of this House! Why Mr Amon's ability to read has been so completely abandoned is my sluggishness. Why should what is described in the law as monitoring not be a monitoring package? Read your own government template! It reads in § 134: “Watching messages, [...] Monitoring encrypted messages”. – Of course this is a monitoring package! [[Abg. Rosary: With your logic, you don't make people healthy in a hospital!]] Mr Rosenkranz, we are fighting in different intellectual weight classes. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the list of mushrooms and with representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. You're right! Which class you are in, I can tell you too!]] If you could limit or tame your impulsive verbal activism a little bit, you wouldn't have to be so hardened and we would have a little more purity of certain things in the house. [[Congratulations with Members of the List of Pilz.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Don't wear your naserl so high!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I give colleagues Stefan Recht: What we've got here is better than what it's given before, and that's what you can say. I don't think it's good anyway. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Mr Rosenkranz, you are a well-known legal agent, you can easily cover this with your left hand. [[Abg. Haider: You are a well-known left-winger!]] Don't deceive yourself when it comes to it, I'm as careless as you are. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] What we need to buy as malware will be regularly subject to legal transactions that are illegal according to § 879 ABGB, that will have to be act tool regularly because it is always the product of hacking attacks. In the moment when such a vulnerability is detected – not only about security gaps in Windows, but also in operating systems in general – it is closed by the large companies and a new vulnerability is being sought and purchased at the black market. My laughter did not refer to you, Mr Stefan, but to the idea that in Austria we could develop the appropriate capacities as quickly as possible to produce such a malware from our own. This is in competition with Microsoft, Apple, Linux or what I don't know to see far and wide – only this laugh was related to it. If we purchase this malware – rightly it was also said that the object-related, device-related, is always new, every update destroys the previously purchased malware – then the experts are currently assuming that this will cost between 700 000 euros and 1 million euros per object and surveillance. But what have we budgeted? . We have now talked for two or three days about the budget, including in the security field. There around 5 or 6 million euros are budgeted. That means we can monitor between five and ten cases sometime. – This is all completely illusory. Mr Scherak has said with great permission here – and the ÖVP and FPÖ government programme also says this with great authority – that for the benefit of citizens as a whole we have to ensure that existing security gaps are closed and we do not constantly address the objective of phishing attacks, hacker attacks and Are similar – but the Republic of Austria keeps it open here consciously! If Mr Amon accused NEOS of not seeing themselves here for the good of the state and not for the defence of such threats and attacks, I will tell you – and I say that well - that: This federal trojan is an instrument of state data terrorism. He destroys all that we need in electronic traffic in security, and the idea that we could develop a malware for end devices that distinguishes 0 and 1 for all data between messages, images and other content is simply illusory. My teaching profession as a radio and television technician and telecommunications technician has taught me so much. That's just nonsense, and it's ideological nonsense in this regard. If you do this, then you do what I throw with great permission, I think, and also with great emphasis and very warning into the room: This is state data terrorism.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8177	Next, Mr Magistrate. Philipp Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8202	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Dear sisters at home and in the hall! High house! I believe that this security package has succeeded in achieving a very good balance between the requirements of the security authorities in order to resolve the now blatant security gaps in the fight against serious and organised crime and extremist terror, and on the other hand, to protect the legitimate interests of citizens regarding their fundamental and freedom rights. We have, in particular, succeeded in preventing the circumvention of the legal guardians provided for in the first announcements and in continuing to implement modern legal protection methods. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As the independence of these legal guardians in the course of the committee negotiations has been questioned and a dependency relationship with the Federal Minister has been put into the area, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Justice for their work, so to speak, after taking up retirement in the service of the Community. I would like to thank you for that! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of ÖVP and NEOS.]] These legal protection officers are an emeritus professor of criminal law of the University of Vienna, a former general procurator and a former Advocate General, who, in this capacity, with the complaint to uphold the law for 20 years, hold the means to control the preaching of the law, and a former university assistant at the Institute of Civil Procedures of the University of Salzburg. These personalities and the presentation of their career, I believe, show the professional qualifications and also the independence with which the legal guardians have done their work, and for that they do not pay tributes, but most thanks to them. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If something does not appear to them in conformity with the law, they even have the opportunity to delete all data without delay in accordance with the Security Police Act. This, I think, takes the highest level of account of the need for legal protection. [[Call at the SPÖ: You've seen that at the BAT!]] We have changed points criticised by us in advance: There will be no transfer of personal data within the security forums, and all newly introduced measures will be evaluated after three years. This security package is almost a firewall to protect the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are not monitoring the mass of the Austrians, but we are going to the depth. We are pushing into the former comfort zone of organised serious crime and into those of terrorism. I have made the effort and have considered what speeches have been given to the introduction of the special investigational measures in 1997 and the statement of the then Social Democratic Minister of the Interior Karl Schlögl I would like to write to the MP of today's SPÖ in the main book, which is only because the SPÖ is now in opposition to it. [[Call the SPÖ: That's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! At last act like a state-bearing party and not like an insulted liver sausage and listen to the quote! Karl Schlögl, then Minister of the Social Democratic Interior, said on 10 June. July 1997 – I quote –: “For me, it is important that it is not at all about the impairment of civil values or about dealing with data stocks or even in the private life of Austrians.” And then we're going to go on: “All those measures we have taken are aimed exclusively at combating crime in the field of terrorism, drug trafficking and trafficking in human beings.” These statements still apply as they did at the time, only the possibilities we have for the 21st century. ==References== [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] All in all, it is to be said in summary: This week is a good week for the safety of Austrians. First of all, it has brought in the budget, which at last distinguishes between expenditure on security and expenditure on asylum and migration – because, unfortunately, the expenditure on migration in the past has all too often been at the expense of security – and it will provide 122 million euros more for security. I think this is a great success for the safety of Austrians! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Not to be forgotten is also good cooperation as an expression of the new style of this turquoise-blue federal government, in which infrastructure minister Hofer has waived 9 million euros of fines in favour of the Austrian police. Thank you very much, Minister for Infrastructure! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In order to enforce this security package, which the police are forward-looking, the investigation measures they need to protect those who act in accordance with the law, and which also protect the freedom of Austrians: We are thus entering the comfort zone of organised crime and terror – in which one has so far believed to be able to move. For this, Federal Minister Herbert Kickl, you have the greatest thanks on behalf of all voters and, I believe, on behalf of all Austrians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8293	Now, Mr Herbert Kicklzu has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8318	Madam President. My dear colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A few days ago, we discussed the largest security budget of the Second Republic in an almost the same framework and composition, and yesterday there was the corresponding decision. I should like to thank all those who have given their approval, because they have made a very important contribution to the security of the people in the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We need this security budget! We need this largest security budget of the Second Republic simply and decisively to give police officers the armor and equipment and also the technical equipment they need in order to be active in the various areas of crime prevention and the fight against crime at the level of time, and not to have to behind the criminals for years or decades. In this case, we are doing two things: We are increasing the protection of officials in their efforts – many parts of the package that are being launched today – and we are increasing the protection of the Austrian population. Both of them are combined, I believe, something we both – including you on the side of the opposition, just as we have on the side of the government – should have, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have, of course, noticed that some opposition politician then held the head over the security budget until some hair fell into the budget soup. But I had the feeling that this activity did not come out of an inner conviction, but that it was much, much more oppositional ritual than content. [[Abg. Jarolim: Don't put so much on feelings!]] The good thing, Mr Jarolim, is today that a new day will bring you a new opportunity and perhaps a new happiness, because today you have the chance to prove that you are indeed serious if you always emphasize that the security of the Austrian population is so important to you. Then we give the officials, in technical terms, the armor to the hand you need to be at the height of time! We do nothing else, as I said, with this security package that we are getting on the way. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Jarolim:... the Federal Trojan...!]] It is modern, it is adequate, and the concept of the security package is the only name that deserves this composition of measures and technical facilities that we implement with it. I did not say, Mr Scherak, that you should be moderate in tone – I would love it if you did something emotional – but I said you should not use the wrong vocabulary – that is quite different. [[Abg. Scherak: I used the right thing anyway!]] And if you're talking about ducks, and if something looks like ducks and shits and shits like ducks, then that doesn't have anything to do with the security package, but then we're in Entenhausen, Mr Scherak. But that has nothing to do with what we are discussing here. Since the beginning of this debate, I am really annoyed that the picture of a monitoring package has been drawn for weeks, and you do not say who will be monitored. Who is being monitored? The mass? - That's what you claim. – Or are not exactly the ones to be monitored, because they are the ones that endanger the safety of the masses? - That's the truth. [[Abg. That's right!]] That's the truth! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] That's something completely different! That is why I am upset, and I have therefore also pointed out to you in the Committee that you are also very, very responsible for the pictures you draw with your language. [[Abg. Scherak:... looked away from you! They were your words!]] You have a responsibility to the public, too, and I have referred to that. They're painting real downfall scenarios – the world's downfall is ahead, and, and, and so. There are also some who do not fail to put words into the mouth, such as those of the police state, ladies and gentlemen, which gives rise to two things: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] They have a problem with the state and they have a problem with the police, and they only have a problem with both of them. At NEOS, I do not know, with some left I am surprised either, but I do not think that it corresponds to the expectation of the Austrian population to express distrust both to the police and to the state. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The concept of the shield, the concept of a firewall has already fallen, and I think that is very, very appropriate, because the mass is finally protected. The mass also consists of loud individuals, of loud individuals; and thank God this mass is made up of many, much more individuals – millions of individuals in Austria – than the criminals are individuals. There are then a few single criminals who organize each other in a few individual organizations – they do this sometimes internationally, they do the polycriminal, they do it in different fields – and these few individuals endanger everyone else, the masses and the public. Do some really believe that we should allow these individuals to be granted by giving up technical instruments and not protecting the masses? – I have a different idea, ladies and gentlemen, of what is an efficient security policy. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We're not talking about hendldieb – we're not talking about it – we're talking about criminal criminals, we're talking about organised crime, towing, drug trafficking. And whoever knows a little bit, knows that all things are more and more intertwined and that unfortunately too often there is also a connection to terrorist activities. These people are concerned when we talk about the fact that, of course, measures are being taken which also represent intervention in certain fundamental and freedom rights – I do not dispute at all, but do not act as if this could somehow apply to everyone, as if everyone in this country had to fear that there would be anything installed on his mobile phone, as if everywhere in this world and in Austria now behind screens would be people who have nothing better to do than to look at where you are going across the street, Mr. Scherak, or perhaps also colleague Noll! It is not responsible to place such images in the world! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Because one is concerned that perhaps some of the fears and needs of Mr. Jarolim might be the subject of such explorations: Well, Mr Jarolim, I hope you never express your fears and needs by phone, that you do not do so in the form of text messages, and I hope you do not belong to the group I have spoken about before, namely, to criminals who are threatened with a penalty of more than ten years. [[Abg. Jarolim: My concern is rather Mr. Kickl! My concern is the Minister Kickl!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Don't be afraid, Jarolim! Don't be afraid!]] I hope that is so – otherwise you don't have to worry. Otherwise, you don't need to worry, because the fears and needs that you hear now even if you make a phone surveillance, only has nothing to do with the subject of the investigation and for this reason is put on the side. So don't pretend that's something new! That's all right now, and it works great. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Then something is important to me, because even a lot of schindluder is driven with it, because one somehow pretends to be not controlled: There is a close network of approval and control. You know very well that these measures will only be initiated if there is a reasonable suspicion, an occasion. They are aimed at the individual case – and that is the opposite of what you are trying to spread permanently in the population. [[Abg. Neubauer: (on the Abg. Jarolim sage) Why is Jarolim always standing?]] [[Call the FPÖ: Because he agrees!]] [[Abg. New builder: This is inconceivable! In the first row stand!]] Now I wonder who is the party of the scared in this country. [[Call the FPÖ:The SPÖ!]] Who is the party of the scared in connection with the security package? – It’s people like you who, under the pretext of contributing to greater security, are really doing a pure uncertainty course, for many, many months. You confronted me with a statement I once made, and I'm telling you something about it, because I'm not surprised: I think it's a reasonable thing to be failed and to learn about it. Getting stupid, that's the problem! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now I really have to say a thank you to the experts and above all to the practitioners who gave me the opportunity to look into what is really behind it, and to find out what difficulties there are, for example, if you are just ahead of access, or if you have a very, very dense index chain and the last Eucerl is missing – and then these criminals are defying exactly in the field of anonymity, and we are no longer going back. You have to listen to what can de facto be lost there, just because this gap exists! I therefore believe that it would be irresponsible not to put in place all measures to close this gap, which was already rightly referred to as a comfort zone for serious criminals. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am also convinced that this security package has succeeded in achieving the necessary and right balance between upholding and defending fundamental and freedom rights on the one hand and the legitimate interests of the masses of the population – which have not been blamed, but which must be protected – on the other hand to find the necessary measure. I'm convinced that was successful. I really ask whether you, the critics of this package, believe that the fundamental and the rights of freedom, democracy, human rights, all that is important to us and what is sacred to us, is defended by leaving these gaps to the serious criminals. I believe that it is a relatively naïve approach to believe that they are grateful by the fact that they will then begin to uphold our fundamental and freedom rights. I think it will be the opposite – Mr Amon has rightly pointed out this in his speech. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] As Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, I am simply and decisively responsible for moving all levers in order to bring about the greatest possible protection of the Austrian population from criminal and terrorist threats. [[Abg. Plessl: The responsible person is to close the gaps!]] That's my responsibility! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Plessl as well as call of the Abg. Scherak.]] I see this as a good doctor. A good doctor would also try to use the best means of using medicine at the level of time to achieve the corresponding success in the treatment of his patient from prevention to an operation that may be necessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]] That's the way I see it, and this analogy is considered to me to be the Minister of the Interior. We'll do that. [[Abg. Jarolim: A tragic speech!]] Mr Jarolim, you can come to the speaker's desk and say that you take responsibility for the fact that even a single person in Austria will be victims of a criminal attack, a terrorist attack or something similar, where we then know and expect that we could have prevented this by applying these monitoring measures. [[Abg. Noll: Step back!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Just sit here and say that! Take responsibility! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I do not assume this responsibility, nor do I belong to the politicians, who then only get more informed when something has happened, in order to respond afterwards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]] We have already experienced this in another area in Austria in 2015 and we still have to chew these problems properly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Duzdar]] My responsibility looks different and, in my interpretation of this office, it is important to act forward to looking into the future and actually moving things in the right direction before the problems arise. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, some of the measures that have not yet been addressed: One aspect of the debate that everyone is talking about is surveillance on the phone. [[Abg. Noll: You have no time limit, Minister, that's the difference!]] This only applies in the least cases, which is only the last way if we don't go on at all, and everyone pretends to be the only content of this package. This is a lot, much more, and it is still a matter of much, much more security, Mr Noll. Safety forums, for example: Yes, this is a platform where the police work together with citizens on dealing with security problems. That's police at an eye, that's a completely new form of police culture and togetherness, and I think it's happening, I think it's exemplary, and other countries envy us for creating this opportunity now. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's also part of this security package, just you don't mention it because it doesn't fit you into your concept. I then heard the criticism of the measures concerning prepaid cards. It is then irresponsibly said of a flat-rate suspicion, of a general suspicion towards any person who owns such a mobile phone. Now we do not collect the data and not we write down who the or the one who is such a prepaid card, but that does the Telekom provider. I have not heard from anyone who comes up with the idea of saying that, just because we have a registration address from each Austrian and there is a corresponding register, there is a suspicion against every Austrian. But it is quite good to know in the event of an occasion where I can access someone or who is hiding behind an anonymous number. I believe that we should give our investigators this opportunity to not land on a dead end in an appropriate investigation approach, but at least to have opportunities with regard to these prepaid cards. That's a reasonable story. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Nobody's going to think that we're going to call a general suspicion against car drivers, just because every car has a number card. But that's a similar argument. [[Mr Scherak and Mr Loacker.]] - Yeah, that's how you argue. The existence of a numbering board does not mean that we all suspect drivers, but if we have to punish a certain driver due to a dangerous behavior, it is quite good if we have the numbering card. Or do you see that differently? If we want to do a house search with someone because of a serious crime or a corresponding order of a judge, then it is quite good if we know where he lives. Or do you see that differently? It's about these things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] This is all quite normal and has not deserved at all those dramatizations with which you go home all the time. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Next is this alleged video surveillance – and now I'm back at these vocabularys. This is not a video surveillance that does not exist right now, but it is access to certain material when the occasion is given. [[Abg. Plessl: That's where the police can access now!]] Do you want to say now that we shouldn't watch about cameras if anyone did an attack on the Vienna subway? God guard us from it! But if that is the case, should we not be able to reconstruct the escape route, should we not be able to watch to pull this individual out of traffic? Are you saying we should give up this possibility? .. [[Subsequent calls and calls between representatives of NEOS and FPÖ]] I hope not! Especially when you look at certain events and terrorist attacks of the past – in London or at the Boston Marathon – you know that exactly such records have been necessary to investigate these perpetrators. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the issue of the change in the identification of the markings, we have come to believe that the recording of certain markings on registration systems – and there you can also add the section control – is only reduced to the marking and that in the case of a hit, if we make a search – it will always match the number that is recorded with a search database, which is the crucial point that is always left out in the argumentation – then it can be very helpful for police officers in case of use, if you also know what color the vehicle has, what it is for a vehicle type and who sits at the wheel of this vehicle, because we are then required to carry a further proof that this person is actually sitting at the wheel. This is not about anyone knocking out of jux and tollery – that's what you're always trying to suggest – but it's about matching numbers that are inside a search database. Then you have to decide sometime, that's the point on which you're on: Is one on the side of those who are car sliders who carry out organized crime, who otherwise pursue their criminal activities, or is one on the side of those who want to be protected from it, on the side of those who, as police officers, also hold their heads and carry out all this investigation? For me, the answer to this question is clear, ladies and gentlemen, on which side I am on, and I can only appeal to you to also put yourself on the right side and not here to encourage those who are pleased that you are discussing fundamental rights and freedoms. They rub their hands and say: Nice, there are still those who want to get us these comfort zones. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I should therefore like to invite you to adopt your prejudices. One or the other will have such a one, and it seems that nothing has been used either that one has now turned over weeks of this package in the direction and that direction and put it on his head and lighted and scanned, and that every When and But has illuminated and, in truth, resisted every objection. Nevertheless, I should like to invite you to free yourself from some prejudice at the end of the debate and at the end of a lengthy process and to join the alliance of those who are concerned with the security of the Austrian population. [[Abg. Plessl: This is the wrong access!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think today is a good opportunity to prove what you always let us know: Accept the security package!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8758	Mr Dr. Johannes Jarolimzú spoke on an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8798	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister told us earlier that social democracy had a problem with the police. I'm actually correcting: We have no problem with the police. We want a strong police force, a well-equipped one, even with regard to the people, we do not want to put the public at risk, just as it has become apparent today because of the emotional border between the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8846	The next item is the speech by Mr Peter Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8871	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I think that this debate is far too little about the core question, where the liberal rule of law ceases and where the surveillance and police state begins. [[Abg. Martin Graf: He's not here, the core!]] [[Abg. Rosary: The key question is where Mr. Kern is!]] I don't think this black and white argument can work. We simply need to take care of what terrorists want, with whom they are always threatened, to justify everything that is possible only through surveillance measures. These terrorists want to tip this very liberal rule of law, to tip the rights of freedom in this liberal rule of law. That's what they want. They are not able to do so now through terrorist measures, but they succeed in the fact that in the discussion we are only more led by fear of terrorism and disband these rights of freedom themselves. We resolve our own rights of freedom ourselves, because we believe only more fear driven by terrorist measures, we have to monitor everything, we have to monitor everyone, because basically everyone is suspicious. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] I think this is the wrong way. We are not in principle opposed to monitoring measures, we are not in principle opposed to measures to monitor suspects and others. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] It is the question to ask where the border is. One of the measures you have put into this package, the Federal Trojan, goes beyond that, because it simply means such an intervention in those human rights that the terrorists are fighting, so that the terrorists have succeeded because they put us in such fear and terror that we give up our rights of freedom. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's this federal trojan. Do you know what you decide? – It is the following measure: We need to buy this federal trojan from private companies. Since the Ministry of the Interior is independently unable to produce a federal trojan, we have to buy it from private companies. What do we buy from these private companies? – We buy the vulnerabilities previously identified by hacker attacks, i.e. by criminal attacks on certain programs. [[Abg. Smoking: Who says that?]] They are made up of professional hacker attacks, and these hackers then sell to private companies those vulnerabilities; or employees of IT companies who develop these programs that themselves know that there are vulnerabilities in them, sell these vulnerabilities to these private companies. That is to say, in reality, we are making ourselves a state-hehler of criminal powers. Because of fear of an imaginary danger, we are taking a path that goes far beyond what is necessary in order to secure this rule of law and also to combat terrorists. I would just like to remind you that all the terrorist attacks have been committed in recent years by people known to the police and security authorities – all! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Nevertheless, they could not be prevented. That is to say, one does not have this security that you are now blaming, but one simply limits human rights and personal rights of freedom. I think this is wrong, for the wrong way, for the wrong development of this society! They're building a society on fear, and that won't work. You can't monitor everyone. Now, however, we are buying these vulnerabilities from private companies, and these private companies are selling it to other countries – Saudi Arabia, North Korea – and there is also the risk that these vulnerabilities will be sold to terrorists. Who's telling us this isn't happening? Then we have perfected exactly what we wanted to prevent by this law, because they then use exactly the gaps that we leave open in order to enter ourselves. I think that what is happening here is insane, because of exactly those criminals we are trying to fight, these gaps can be exploited. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Now there is a special feature with us in Austria: The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for cybersecurity, i.e. it would be obliged to close these gaps. But the same ministry says: No, we leave these gaps open, we know them, but we leave them open so that we can enter. – But that also means that others can enter, and they really have it much easier than before. That is to say, this action by the Federal Trojan is directed solely against the human rights-assured rights and not against the terrorism you claim to fight. They question our liberal order by producing fear and believing that with this fear they can justify everything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It is a pity that you support a social development that moves away from the free, liberal rule of law to the surveillance state. I think this is a wrong development. Think about whether you want such a state! Think about whether we do not give up those rights of freedom that we should actually defend!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8971	Next speaker is Mrs Mag.a Michaela Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8995	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! I would like to congratulate colleagues Stefan warmly, because he first showed in his speech that he can argue and explain very well, and secondly, how he, as a former opposition politician – when this security package was the first time in the review, at the time he has experienced material criticism – developed further and finally formulated with us with thought and care all things in such a way that we can decide a good security package today. I thank you very much, especially for the judicial area, for there were many good suggestions, from time to time, piece by piece, every review – in 2016, in summer 2017 and now, in our Committee opinion – have come very special from you. Thanks a lot. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You can learn something too, that's not a question. Mr Scherak is also one who normally likes to learn, and I just want to say to him – I did not mention a real correction –: Please take a look at our amendment, which we have still jointly formulated, in order to make further tightenings and sensible arrangements! There is provision in paragraph 7 that the Imsi-Catcher can only be used with judicial approval. We have established a committee in which we have defined – and this is important to us – that not everyone in the judicial system or in the BMI may carry out the monitoring of encrypted messages, but only the experienced special unit observation. Mr Jarolim, but of course – that is particularly important to me – our fellow citizens said: The monitoring of encrypted messages has already been allowed. She was allowed, we just couldn't do it through the grid operators. I think I'm the eighth or ninth speaker, many have said before me, too: It is only with this technical system, with this software possible that we can perform this monitoring of encrypted messages on Skype or WhatsApp. We have also thought about this very carefully and thoughtfully. They all know the tougher conditions that are now reflected in this law after almost two years: Terror offences or other crimes involving a criminal framework of ten years of minimum prison sentences or acts of violence with a minimum penalty of five years. This is only by knowing what we're talking about, for example, murder, deliberate serious body injury or severe sexual abuse of the unmistakable. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we insist that in these cases the encrypted messages can also be checked! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Now to colleagues Wittmann: Mr Wittmann, everyone is being monitored, you just said earlier. – I’ve had the numbers give me: In 2017, such investigations by judges and prosecutors could have been ordered for only 1.5 percent of all crimes in Austria, which fall under the conditions of this law. I may now be able to bother you with another number: If I were to hypotheticalally assume that judges and prosecutors in these 1.5 percent of the crimes would in all cases order measures to monitor encrypted messages – with judicial approval, in this orderly trial that we foresee – 99 percent of the people in Austria would not be affected, but only the 1 percent who practice such serious offences. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We know, of course, that this careful use of these monitoring measures must also include an annual report from our legal protection officer. That is the point where we will have to consider and evaluate whether the criminal framework is correct or not. One last sentence: For the Quick-Freeze model, I would just like to say that – and you know that – this is not a storage of data, but rather that it is very concrete measures on the occasion. That is why I can conclude by saying: Our security package protects Austrian citizens from violence, criminals and terrorists. And yes, it's about closing the gaps. If the opposition says that the fundamental rights of individuals are restricted here, I say: Yes, but those of criminals, in consideration of fundamental rights, for the benefit of the general public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e9073	Mrs Irmgard Griss spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e9095	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no freedom, if there is no security – that has been said before by Mr Amon, and I can only agree with it. [[I would like to congratulate the NEOS and representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The difficult thing, however, is – I am with Mr Wittmann – to find a balance between freedom and security. To this end, I can quote from an article in last week’s “Time” – that is, the Hamburg weekly newspaper “Die Zeit”, not from “Current” – which a convinced American conservative has written. He asks: What is the task of a true conservative? – And he says: A wise conservative is committed to a policy of liberal purposes and conservative means. And the purpose of this wise conservative policy is the right of individuals to the greatest possible personal freedom without restricting the rights of their neighbours. This includes police and military, which provide security and order. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] But how do these monitoring measures, which are now being planned and which are still being developed, affect this feeling of personal freedom, the development of the individual? Will we still be able to say, write and do what we say, write and do when we know that all this is recorded and stored and that in case of need it can be accessed? Of course, this also has its advantages, and I would like to quote Eric Schmidt, the former CEO of Google, who said: If there's something you don't want others to know about it, then maybe it's better if you don't. In China, social accounts are set up for every citizen and every citizen, which is exactly what someone does, whom he has contact, how he behaves. It is now possible to be sure that this will prevent any breach of the rules from being pushed back. [[Abg. Rädler: You have to say that in Beijing, but you weren't there!]] But is that what we want? Is this our idea of a society in which one has to consider: Can I still do that, or is it perhaps better if I fail? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] For me, this is in a sense a conservative paradox. On the one hand, I tell the women: It's so safe with us, you can go home alone at night, but Father State is watching whether you're probably not too two and whether your step is still quite safe. [[Abg. Rosary: No!]] This is incompatible with a wise conservative policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e9175	Next item is the report by Mr Herbert. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e9196	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is a bit strange to us here from the opposition; this mistrust in the rule of law, which you are celebrating here in connection with this law, in particular these reservations and also the distrust of our police, as if it were a collection of loud criminals, loud lawbreakers, who are pioneering the data of the citizens every day and who would, at least day and night, commit the abuse of these data – that is indeed innocuous. [[Abg. Loacker: That the police union wants to monitor everything doesn't surprise!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This is innocuous of our executive, who has truly not deserved it. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] In fact, it is a question of producing exactly the opposite, namely our police, our executive, to give that craftsmanship along the way, in order to prevent exactly what you are proposing in the reverse of the police, the Ministry of the Interior, but also the rule of law. It is about protecting citizens from criminal organisations, organised crime or international terrorism. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Noll.]] This is the intention of the law. All your comparisons, which you've already made for the best in here today, are actually absurd, not to say a little cockbled. By the way, I particularly liked the execution of Mr Wittmann, whose presentation of his fear of fear was actually very shrill. Of course, this is never to be excluded if I use private service providers. Today, when I drive my car to a specialist workshop to the service, God forbids that it happens, it can be quite certain that the brakes will work badly due to a manual misappropriation afterwards. However, it would be particularly sad if I felt that this was the case and did not do anything about it, just as Mr Wittmann about presented it to us. It could be, but because of fear that it might be that way, one does for safety's sake what you can best of the SPÖ, namely nothing. This is a turnaround that I reject here. Now I come back to my example: If I insist that my car doesn't have the brakes working, I'll see that I'll let them judge immediately. Everything else would be negligent, not only to me, because I really like to live on, but also to my family, which is sitting next to me in the vehicle. And this family that leaves you in this case on the street is the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We take this family with these legal provisions, we do something for the Austrian people, because we insist that there is a need for changes, that there is a need for repair and that we need to adapt the legal provisions here in order to make the police, the executive – I say – competitive. After all, the police have the disadvantage that they will always be able to react to criminal developments, because the others are always the first ones in their criminal acts and the police can usually only react to them. Prevention is good, prevention is important, but it does not cover the entire area. On the other hand, this law is also important in order to ensure security for citizens and the Republic of Austria in the future and to ensure that security in our country is also secure for next generations. In this sense, I should like to conclude by bringing in a change in the overall amendment tabled by Mrs Herbert and Mr Amon on ‘a federal law that amends the Safety Police Act, the Road Traffic Regulations 1960 and the Telecommunications Act 2003’. The request was distributed to you, so I can limit myself to the essential content of this amendment and explain it in key points. It provides that that part of the SPG, namely Article 88 of the Matters Data Protection Adjustment Act, is immediately inserted into the Federal Act, which amends the Safety Police Act, the Road Traffic Regulations 1960 and the Telecommunications Act, in order not to have to amend the SPG for a second time. Furthermore, this application provides for a change in the texting in the sense of the Government template, namely that the term “image and sound recording devices” is replaced by the term “image recorders” in accordance with the model of the Data Protection Adjustment Act, because of the merger the entry data adjusted and changed Article 3 of the Telecommunications Act. I should like to invite you to support this request for a security police, which is available daily and using its physical integrity to the safety of our people, and also to ask you to show our executive appreciation for the value which is also due to it. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[13:11]] The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10499	I announce that the request from Mr Werner Herbert, colleagues, has just been presented in his key points and is sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. As regards the scope of the application, the application has already been made in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be duplicated and distributed. Furthermore, this request will also be made clear in the Stenographical Protocol. Mrs Zadić has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10525	Madam President. Dear representatives of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we will probably get closer to the surveillance state. The many measures of this monitoring package, which you call euphemistic security package, violate our fundamental and freedom rights with feet. The majority here in Parliament will adopt a law today, and I am convinced, after some speeches, that you are not aware of the scope of the law as a whole. You say you want more security. Has Do you even evaluate existing monitoring measures? Have you then evaluated what has led to more security in the past, which measures have led to more security and which have not? In the Committee on the Interior, we have called for a comprehensive evaluation of existing investigation and surveillance measures, because we want to know exactly what has worked in the past and what has not worked in the past. You have rejected what the entire opposition considers reasonable and desirable, namely that our open society and our fundamental and freedom rights do not fall victim to apparent security. This is a clear indication of what policy is being pursued here. No, you do not want to deal with what measures actually lead to more security and which do not, but you simply want to monitor more and more. They simply step on our already dwindling privacy and our fundamental rights with feet. Whether it will lead to more security, we don't know, or better say: You don't want to know. Let's take the registration requirement for prepaid SIM cards: We are adopting laws that have long been declared unusable in other countries. Great Britain, which is truly not known for caring for the privacy of its citizens, has found the registration obligation not to be targeting, but we are doing it now! Not only that it will not provide more information, those who want to use unregistered SIM cards can just drive from Vienna from 40 minutes to Bratislava and buy a non-registering SIM card. Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it is undisputed that the police should take investigation measures against certain persons and must also have funds available for them. And yes, against those who are suspected of having committed serious crimes, or who have serious criminal or terrorist intentions, there must be action. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] These measures, however, go too far when they concern each and every one of us when they intervene in the fundamental rights of each individual. Why this is the case, I would like to explain briefly on the basis of the Federal Trojan. They always say: The Federal Trojan is only used against highly criminal persons in order to decrypt WhatsApp and Viber messages. That sounds nice and good – and yes, we need a solution to read encrypted messages – but this federal trojan is the wrong solution, and you know that. There are other options – talk to experts. [[Abg. Stefan: What's the right thing?]] [[Abg. Rosary: Which one? Which one? I want to hear from you now!]] Why is the Federal Trojan the wrong way? – I would like to explain this to you now: In order for this to be installed if necessary, the government needs to know and exploit vulnerabilities of our operating systems. What does that look like in practice? – Apple will certainly not provide you with these vulnerabilities, but you will have to buy them somewhere, be it at the black market or somewhere else. [[Abg. Rosary: Apple sells to the Federal Government on the black market?]] – Apple doesn’t sell the vulnerabilities on the black market, but if you need to know the vulnerabilities, you’ll have to buy them somewhere. Apple will not make it available to you. [[Abg. Rosary: Oh, you said it!]] In order to buy these vulnerabilities, you will also have to take a lot of money into your hands. We have already heard that such a vulnerability costs up to 1 million euros. This vulnerability will be closed by Apple in the next two, three months, i.e. one will have to buy further vulnerabilities in the future. Mr Amon also said in the committee that if the vulnerabilities are available to criminal organizations, they must also be available to the government. Yeah, but that's exactly the point. We have a rule of law. We have opted for a rule of law so that the state cannot do everything that criminal organizations can. There are laws for this, and the state can only act by means of the laws. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] Mr Amon, if the government continues to promote security gaps - – I would say that I am still speaking. [[Abg. Rosary: The police can already use the weapon?]] [[Abg. Noll: Mr Rosenkranz, let the colleague speak out!]] [[Abg. Rosary: That's not true! I'm going to dedicate myself to you!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] If the government continues to promote security gaps, then only the cyber-criminals are happy, because these are the ones that will benefit from these gaps for their actions. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not alone with my criticism. Not only the whole opposition, including you, dear FPÖ, was until a few months ago my opinion. You are and you were against the surveillance package back then. The lawyers, their own constitutional service, corporate associations and de facto the entire civil society share our criticism. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] That is why I ask you to: Do not decide this monitoring package. Decide today in the High House for Freedom and for the open society in which we want to live! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10669	The next item is the speech by Mr Mahrer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10690	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Values Advisors! Let us try to imagine a situation that has not yet been addressed: They will be victims of a robbery at a station You are injured and your wallet – in the cards and lots of money inside – is robbed of you. The suspect is immediately after this Robbery escaped. Now the police investigations begin – for days, there are no witnesses, there is no evidence. So far it has been required that there is first of all a video surveillance in this area, that the data are recorded and stored, and that there is the second there is the willingness to hand over the material to the police. If only one of these conditions had not been met, the culprit could not be investigated so far. There was also no way to return the stolen things to you. The provisions to be decided on today now make it possible for safety authorities to obtain and process video material which, as in our case, has the transport undertaking that is present, to fulfil their tasks – after a risk analysis of the place in question. This transport company is now also obliged to store the data for a maximum of four weeks. Ladies and gentlemen, in this ever recurring example, the suspect can now be investigated with the help of the evaluation of the already existing video data. You also have the chance to get the stolen things back. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the police practice. Because of the short speaking time, I can only confine myself to this one example, but this shows so clearly how important the decision-making of today's security package is. If you hear of such an example, you cannot really believe that the security package has been discussed so long and so controversially. According to my experience as a long-standing executive official – and this is not very small – the legislator needs urgent action in relation to this example, as well as, ladies and gentlemen, many other examples that have already been reported today, if he wants to enable the work of the police in the service of the safety of people. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The long discussion has many disadvantages, I admit. Sometimes you get into the philosophy, sometimes you startle fears – sometimes also consciously against better knowledge – and sometimes you simply talk the police badly. The long discussion also has advantages. I remember when, after the discussion at the committee meeting, Member Nikolaus Scherak explicitly said: Yes, now I have come to understand and believe that the establishment of security forums within the meaning of § 25 Security Police Act may really be a good way to improve the security of the population. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now faced with a concrete draft law following two assessment procedures and a long way. I would particularly like to thank the Federal Ministers Moser and Kickl, our Secretary of State Edtstadler and also the experts of the Ministries, for they have presented a draft in record time which provides really excellent opportunities for the work of the police. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, so that nothing remains unspeakable: Yes, we want to make work difficult with this security package of terrorists and culprits. And yes, we want to use this law to enable the work of the police. Although some do not believe it, we now have a security package that ensures very balanced data protection, guarantees legal protection and is certainly a confession that we do not stand for perpetrator protection. Let me conclude, ladies and gentlemen. If you really care about the security and therefore the freedom of the people in Austria, then go into it again and agree with this security package that we want to adopt today.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10756	Mrs Lueger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10778	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Amon: Yeah, we're proud of our police. – Unfortunately, he's not here, maybe you can do it to him? [[Call to the ÖVP: Just like Mr. Kern!]] . I am now talking to Mr Amon, but this has nothing to do with Mr Kern. Because Mr. Amon said it looks like the police's got everything in their arse: Look at the overtime statistics of the police. If you, with them, are not all in annoyance, you lie yourself in the bag, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: That's why there are more plan posts now, more police!]] This package – and I continue to call it a monitoring package – establishes the limitation of the fundamental and freedom rights of all those living in Austria with the need for measures to maintain public order and security and, above all, with the protection from terrorist attacks. Mr Mahrer, you have just broken down the example brilliantly. In this video surveillance all are monitored, each individual is too much – each individual is too much! With your small handbag robbery, you have proven that everything is monitored. They say today that we have discussed this law for a long time: 9 035 comments – critical to quite negative – were made for the first draft. They then told us that much has been changed, but nothing has been changed! Even the storage periods for video recordings have been extended and not improved. I can still remember times when the FPÖ drummed in the election campaign: ‘Power needs control.’ [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] – And what is now? Now exactly this minister, who at the time also said that the Stasi method used in this law is one of his best laws. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again: It meets each of us, each of us who has a cell phone, whether it's a prepaidhandy or a registered cell phone. It meets every one of us who has a computer. It meets every one of us who has a vehicle. And it meets everyone moving in public space. [[Abg. That's so wrong!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] – This is not wrong, Mr Commissioner, that is absolutely not wrong! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] With regard to the need for these measures, which Mr Kickl and the FPÖ repeatedly hold us, and to the accusation that we would help the perpetrators: There is no evidence to date – and not in international comparison – that these measures actually increase security. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: Do you have exact data? About preventable terrorist attacks?]] - Why? Mr. colleague, if you come back to the terrorist attacks now – thank God no terrorist attacks in Austria have had in this way. [[Abg. Kassinger: Over prevented! Do you have exact data? About prevented...!]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I can tell you one thing, Mr. Cot: In this tragic story on the well market – a tragic story – one has known the perpetrator in advance. There was nothing to do with all the surveillance, because the problem was quite simple that there was no exchange between the various organizations and the police and - - - there was no exchange of social workers with the police. [[Abg. Rosary: And what exchange has there not been? There was no data exchange!]] There was no exchange. [[Abg. Rosary: The Data! That's the data exchange!]] It doesn't help you either. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] One of the most important points – this can be underlined here again – is why we were against it in the last legislative period and are against it even now, is still the Federal Trojan. You have written in your government program that you are committed to closing gaps in the data network. [[Abg. Herbert: Right gap!]] They deliberately leave these gaps open. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] You pay companies to find gaps, you pay companies for them to plant something into these gaps. So it is not only about reading this data, but you can also implement something into it, and you must then prove, Mr President, that you have never written it. This is an absolutely impossible variant for us. We do not want this law in this form. I agree with Mr Ikrath, who is very well-known to all of you, withdraw this law – even the constitutional service of the Federal Ministry of Justice has wished to examine it once again, withdraw it – and then we can decide for the safety of the people! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10968	Mr Mahrer spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the rules, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10993	In order to correct the information and statements made by Mrs Lueger, contrary to these remarks, I should like to say that it has been since - - - that Mrs Lueger's comment has been that nothing has been changed from the review to this day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: What comments?]] I should like to point out that significant changes have been made, particularly in the area of cost replacement, in the field of identification systems, in the field of the storage obligation of video surveillance and the expansion of video surveillance. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Cost replacement, is that your serious?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: An intensification!]] I think that's enough. If you want, we can expand that, but in the sense of the short term, I think it was.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11078	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11101	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, you can stand out here again and again and cause fear. Mr Lueger has just done well: There must be fear of anyone who owns a cell phone or a computer. [[Abg. Lueger: I didn’t say! It can affect anyone!]] [[Abg. Rosary: A car!]] – Of course, it is a complete nonsense to claim such a thing. The Minister of the Interior, Mr Stefan, Mr Schrangl, Mr Herbert and Mr Amon, have endeavored, in a fair and honest way, to explain and elucidate what has been eliminated by this Federal Government in distrust and what has actually been improved in this package. But that does not mean anything if you have the party order to be against it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is almost a strange story, because the arguments are missing, the arguments are simply not there. I would like to stress it once again, although it has already been mentioned by my previous speakers and also by the Minister for the Interior: They – above all the Social Democrats – always stand here and – which is all right – thank you for the great work of the police. We do, too, but we do it honestly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] But one thing is quite clear: They come out here for the x-th time and say that the police are in a bad condition, but then they don't agree to this law. Go out to the police, talk to them! A security package in this House will be decided – be sure that this will be decided because it is good and right for the people and also for the police – and you are talking about an evil condition, saying how important the police is to you, and then don’t agree to this law and are looking for arguments like the fairy tale in the soup, which are not arguments, free according to the motto: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayer]] It doesn't have to be right, it just has to sound good. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Listen to me.]] That is exactly how I feel, namely simply putting yourself out here without having any arguments, and trying to get arguments on the hair. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] – You are still on it, Mr Plessl, too! You'd better know. If you still have contact with your former colleagues, you would not be able to make a few calls here and you would also know that your colleagues and the people need and want to do so. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Plessl]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If one turns out here, ladies and gentlemen, and says that one could not prevent this and that attack – all are terrible – then may that be so. It may not be possible to prevent everything from happening with this security package. It is clear, however, that these tragic incidents in France and Germany have been resolved relatively quickly, ladies and gentlemen, and this is what the people expect of us and our executives. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If such terrible acts already take place and have to take place – you can't do anything about it – then the people expect at least as quick as possible information; but they prevent you from taking sides of the opposition with hairthrowing and almost ridiculous arguments here from the speaker's desk. They say: That's general surveillance. Anyone who has a phone or a computer must be careful in the future. – That’s total nonsense, it doesn’t have to be careful, because only the special groups need to be careful. They almost make themselves the patron saint of the serious criminals and the terrorists. You have to say that. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But now it's enough!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Madam President!]] - It's enough! Come on. You get out of here and take a bad argument, then you can give up such a thing. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You haven't heard anything!]] - No, you haven't brought anything yet! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lueger: That's time-consuming what you're doing!]] You didn't say anything, that's your problem. If you don't say anything, the other person can't hear anything. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] You have very little to say – with factual arguments. You just have to point this out once. In this sense, I would like to thank the very, very good work of our executives in general and in particular the police for their daily commitment to all of our security, for the security of ours and the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11268	The next item is Mrs Duzdar's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11313	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear spectators at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, somehow I can understand a little bit that you have to defend and justify yourself permanently, because I say something to you: [[call to the FPÖ]] You fell down! You never need to be here again and present yourself as a defender of the rights of freedom, because you have become disbelief at the moment! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] What the Minister of the Interior – he is no longer here – calls a security package is in reality a comprehensive monitoring package. [[Abg. Mölzer: Are you scared?]] It is our job to emphasize this and to say it again and again. I also say it in his words, because not too long ago he spoke of a monitoring package as in the GDR. Now suddenly everything is quite different Since he was in the government, he can no longer remember what he said at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Herbert]] Today, he even said he'd failed. He may have failed because he can now read everywhere as an interior minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Now he thinks Plädoyers are exactly this monitoring package: This is really embarrassing for the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It seems to me that you are not really aware of the effects of these Federal Trojans on our society. This is an incredibly disproportionate intervention in the privacy of all. [[Abg. Stefan: How would the proportionate solution be?]] It is also a disproportionate intervention into privacy all those who have not been blamed for nothing that has done nothing that is not suspicious, but have simply happened by chance in an environment of people who may be suspicious. [[Abg. Stefan: It's like every phone watch! Always the same problem! That has nothing to do with the Federal Trojan!]] Do you know what that means? – That really means that sometime in our society, something like self-censorship will arise in our minds and then you will think three times if you really want to write a friend a critical thought. [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Stefan: Under what conditions...?]] So they use a federal trojan, a program that can be installed on a mobile phone, tablet or computer and with which everything is recorded, read everything along and heard everything. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Sobotka:... prosecutors, judges...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think the essential question in this context is what should all of this bring? [[ongoing calls at ÖVP and FPÖ]] What do the Austrians have of it when they are monitored day and night? Your argument is always the fight against terrorism. [[Call the ÖVP: Always this terror! Always terror!]] After every terrorist attack, however, we hear that the police's assassin was known. [[Abg. Mölzer: Fairy-tale!]] The problem, therefore, is not that the police would not be able to investigate suspects, but the problem is that justice is inadequately equipped. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] - And what are you doing? [[Call the ÖVP: Always this terror!]] – You continue to save on justice, you save on the judges, you save on the prosecutors, you save on the assistants, but the main thing is, you can now listen to and read our WhatsApp news and believe that Austria is getting safer with it. [[Call: This is like the Palestinians.]] [[Abg. Stefan: If you are suspicious of a crime, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Abg. Sobotka: How in Germany!]] [[Call the FPÖ: You are not! You're not interested in anyone, Mrs. Colleague!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if the Minister of the Interior wants to make Austria safer, then he should finally stop with his police ponies and his surveillance fantasies and, together with the Minister of Justice, ensure that justice receives the budgetary means she needs.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11551	The next item is the speech by Mr Ofenauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11572	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Estimated colleagues in the High Authority House! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Mr Duzdar's contribution is seamlessly in line with a number of unscrupulous views and animosities of the opposition on this subject. I think we should return to a matter of fact in the debate, as this security package has indeed deserved. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Security is a sensitive issue, security is an important issue because it is one of the basic needs of people and thus a very important task of this state. Not least, this safety package has also been subject to a comprehensive assessment procedure, in which a number of amendments have been made. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing that this security package is certainly not: There is certainly no mass surveillance because the specific suspicion of a specific person must exist, and it is certainly not an online search, because the program installed on a device is aimed at the transmission process of this encrypted message. This security package is not intended for storage of stock data, but, as required by NEOS during the last legislative period, it is intended to be able to access existing data in case of initial suspicion by freezing them and storing them for a maximum of 12 months. Technical possibilities have changed through technical progress and thus also the communication possibilities of criminals. There is already a question of whether the police should not finally be given the opportunity to monitor and control the encrypted communication of criminals. Extensive measures have been put in place, such as an order by a prosecutor, judicial authorisation and so on, so that no arbitrary action can be taken. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear: There can be no 100% security, but I should like to thank Mr Zadić, who has himself said that there is probably no alternative to the one we are using here. I think that if we don't give the police this opportunity, it's a free letter for the criminals to make up the next crime scene from an encrypted room. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bösch.]] We also have to ask ourselves whether we want to do so, and above all, whether it should be that we live in a state that does not want to see it. - I don't think that's the case. Data protection is important, data protection is correct, data protection can be improved again and again, but must not be an act protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11630	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11651	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I am in the happy situation that it has never happened to me, but I have been told by people who have already broken in at home that this is not even so bad that material damage is not even so much, because anything has been lost or windows or doors have been broken, but it is really bad that you don't get the feeling that a stranger has been in your own innermost private – someone who, for example, has broken into a bedroom window and has been boots over the bed with the shoes, or someone who has been looking for something in the socks drawers or the documents that simply looked around in the most private things. It goes so far that people have not overcome something like this for years and changed the apartment or at least newly furnished it, because they just didn't stand this feeling, there was a stranger in their own innermost private, just not. What you're planning on with the Federal Trojan is just a class worse: The state simply gives itself the opportunity to look at my most intimate thoughts, my vacation photos, my medical findings, my diarys, my scientific work, all that I have stored in my cloud, to check. [[Call the ÖVP: You have nothing to hide!]] – What does it mean to me nothing, I have nothing to hide? Maybe I'm a criminal who has something to hide? - That's a failed objection! I'm really happy about this incredible intelligence, which is showing up there – really true! You know, the problem is just the following: I've been thinking about it in the early morning, I've had a cell phone for about 23 years. For 23 years I have transferred the data from the first mobile phone to the second mobile phone, to the third mobile phone, to the fourth mobile phone and so on and in this time, since I own a mobile phone, saved a little over 8,000 contacts. These are my family, close friends, acquaintances, companions, colleagues. [[Subsequent calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] These are people from favorites who wanted advice on the subject of housing, job, kindergarten or anything else, people I met somewhere in this world, and people I would no longer recognize on the street today, to whom I had no contact for decades. But it is possible that these people also have my contact details in their phone. If they get dangerous now or the police believe they're more dangerous, I'm already with them, and there's the possibility that the security authorities can see my most intimate thoughts, my vacation photos, my medical findings, my diarys, my scientific findings, everything I've stored in my cloud. [[Abg. Rosary: That's what the court is doing!]] – That doesn’t belong to the law enforcement authority? The court isn't a law enforcement authority? – So far to your understanding! This monitoring package, ladies and gentlemen, no longer brings security, it brings more uncertainty to the whole, very many. It takes us a lot of basic and human rights, and – it has already been said – it can even store data in my mobile phone, tablet, PC – data that I will then be very difficult to prove ever that they are not mine, even if they are illegal, even if they are criminal. You know, I don't like hackers and no data hackers in my phone, in my PC, in my tablet, neither criminal nor state. I don't like all of them at home. Faith You're telling me: International drug cartels, global human trafficking rings and other illegals, such as the Mafia, will have no problem with them – they make billions of sales each year with illegal transactions – to acquire a software and new technologies that do not comply with these laws. They will continue to communicate with each other and will be able to make out what they need to carry out their illegal activities. In addition, there will be technical uplifting on both sides, the state and the criminals, and we are in the middle. We as civil society, as citizens, are in the middle, and among the wheels are our human rights, our fundamental rights, our privacy, our telephone secret, our letter secret and much more. I think it is crazy not to evaluate what we can do so far with the previous methods and legal possibilities before we decide on an absolutely unproportional further measure that we can use in the future. [[Abg. Arbitrators draw the speaker's attention to the speaking time by means of a gesture.]] – We haven’t decided on a speech anyway. It reminds me very much of the picture with which an insider compared this process: If a police officer has a gun and doesn't hit the shooting exercises, I'll just give him a machine gun in his hand, and he'll meet again. – From my point of view, this monitoring package is more than irresponsible.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11714	Mr Ofenauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the rules. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11738	Mrs Bayr meant that in the course of this programme, which is being installed, images or data would be accessed on the telephone. I'm actually correcting and quoting from the new § 134 Z 3a: ‘Effecting encrypted messages’ means ‘the surveillance of encrypted, transmitted or received messages and information within the meaning of Z 3 and the identification of related data within the meaning of § 76a’ – and so on. So at least it's not images.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11769	The next item is the speech by Mr Kumpitsch. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11790	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Values listeners! High house! I would just like to replicate the speech of my predecessor, because I am slowly wondering if one would ask for the abolition of judicially ordered telephone surveillance, because it is precisely there that the intimacys that exist between suspects and witnesses or victims are widened. So far, no one has ever hit it. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] – But if it continues that way, we will soon hear that. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that anonymous value cards are not only used by parents who do not want to enter into a mobile phone contract for their children, but also, in particular, by terrorists, criminal organizations or even ordinary criminals. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, How would you feel if your child, when your son or daughter starts to lie to you at once, steal; if you try to get in touch with the child, but always have to find it away from you, it neglects, and you can't do anything because it doesn't get away from his drug dependence; if, as I have, unfortunately, too often, your child is suffocated at his own vomit and found somewhere in a sander accommodation? – Then you will certainly ask: How could this happen, who is to blame, who is responsible? You will certainly want to take responsibility for those responsible for this, and above all that other children do not get into the same situation as your child. In fact, illegal drugs from dealers – more or less – are sold in city parks, folk gardens, in-discos to young people. They are made dependent, the victims eventually become perpetrators. Thereby, most of the criminal organizations involved are those that bring illegal drugs from their manufacturing countries – Afghanistan or South America – to the customers and ensure their distribution. These are well-organised criminal network connections working part-time, which can only be detected and smashed by lengthy and difficult police investigations. In Austria, addiction crime is increasing to an alarming extent. Last year, we were able to achieve an increase of 16.2 per cent in drug-related drugs. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we can support our police to protect our children in the fight against illegal drugs. We can – like Germany on 1st. July 2017 and it is also common in nine other EU countries – ensuring that criminals can no longer hide behind the anonymity of their prepaid cards. In the course of police investigations against a suspect, it can often be found that he is constantly changing the anonymous value card of his cell phone and thus seeking to hide his identity. With a registration obligation of prepaid business cards, the police would receive at least one investigation approach. It would be possible to obtain conclusions on the owner or at least on the former buyer of this card. In the course of a criminal police investigation, as Mr Stefan has already said, it would be possible, in the context of a call data collection and, with it, a review of the Imei numbers, i.e. the serial number of a mobile phone, to find that one and the same perpetrator always uses the same mobile phone, but changes his value cards. Of course, with an obligation to register anonymous value cards, we give up the possibility of not having to bind to a network operator that some people love. Their anonymity, ladies and gentlemen, is in no way lost. It is also not the case, as Mr Duzdar said earlier, that we are constantly being monitored. You can take this fear calmly, because monitoring is only possible if it is serious offences which are laid down by law and if they are carried out on the basis of state, judicial order. So you don't need this fear. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to be able to effectively combat criminality such as illegal drugs, drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, towing, but also terrorism, we must give the police the tool they need in order to be successful. Previously, I tried to tell you from the dead child the tragic consequences of criminal activities and to keep in mind what it would mean if we did not do everything we could to keep a child from doing so. In this sense I appeal to you: Voices Go to this security package!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11841	Mr Fichtinger is speaking next time. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11863	Madam President. My very much appreciated Ladies on the government bank! A comment on the monitoring package, Mrs State Secretary, without wishing to approach you: If the Federal Minister for Justice could not be present today, because he is ill, it would have been very appropriate for at least the Federal Minister for the Interior to pursue the rest of the debate here in the House today, given the importance of the debate – but we are already used to it from his time as Secretary-General. [[Call the FPÖ:The Secretary of State represents him here!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, to a sensible law, unlike the monitoring package, which we are debating here today. Today, we are also negotiating the legal regime in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. This cooperation will be strengthened within the EU in accordance with the principle of mutual recognition and enforcement of judicial decisions. The current EU-JZG will adopt a directive-compliant legal framework for the enforcement of a European organisation of investigations in another Member State in the country or the adoption of an EEA by a national authority to be implemented in another Member State. Another essential content is the further development of the international instruments for mutual assistance for the purposes of the maintenance of financial penalties. It also provides for the establishment of a uniform legal framework for international cooperation in administrative financial matters. The law is a reasonable, useful development of our legal system – contrary to what we have debated before – and we will therefore also give it our consent. A final remark on the monitoring package: Our fundamental concerns have already been expressed in detail and in depth by my previous speakers. Benjamin Franklin, who is often quoted as very short in terms of security and freedom, said: “These who would give up essential Liberty, to purchase a little temporal Safety, serve near Liberty nor Safety.” The government parties are obviously willing to sacrifice fundamental freedoms for a short-term apparent security without being aware of the far-reaching consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11902	The next item is the speech by Mr Principality. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11924	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Feichtinger, on your point of entry, may I inform you that at the beginning of the meeting, Mr President has informed you that, as of 1 p.m., Mr Moser will be represented by the Federal Minister, Mr Köstinger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] The Minister for the Interior, I think, has explained in detail the content of the proposals. The Secretary of State is present. We take this seriously, unlike the opposition leader core. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Klaus Uwe Feichtinger, the Federal Chancellor out of office Klubobmann Kern has already missed the budget debate yesterday, and he is not here today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] That's all right. Probably he's just got a job interview in the private sector. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Security is a high asset to the population and has a high value. With the decision of today's security package, we are responding to new challenges through changes in society. I believe that the balance between security on the one hand and fundamental and freedom rights on the other hand is very well given. Freedom also means self-determination, but we should not forget that there is something like a self-limitation. At least I have personally learned as a child that my freedom ceases where I limit the freedom of the other. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is simply necessary that we give the executive also the appropriate means of combating crime. I believe that if you listen to what the people want, it is a very essential element that the executive has opportunities at hand to combat terrorism and crime. Criminal networks communicate via digital networks, via encrypted networks. With today's decision to enable us to monitor encrypted data, I believe we are opening up corresponding gaps to the executive, and that is important. Those who don't lead evil in the shield don't need to be afraid. I think the gnawing of fears is unresponsible. To the data protection: As has already been said a hundred times, it is only about cause-related surveillance, and the legal protection officer controls it independently. I can remember times in this house when there were real security politicians in the SPÖ who knew what people think outside, what people feel, what would be necessary. [[Abg. Wooger: Pendl!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] However, during the last period they have already had to experience that it is difficult to put these honest beliefs into practice in their own group. If I remember today's discussion, the speeches by Mr Jarolim, Mr Wittmann, Mr Bayr and Mr Duzdar, then I think that your former security spokesman Otto Pendl, who was a great Member when he watched you on television today, must have had a few Stamperl stomachbitters to stop what you see. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the decision of today's security package, we are contributing to forward-looking policy. That's what this federal government stands for.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12016	Next, Mr Antoni. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12038	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The agenda items that are now coming to decision-making in a few minutes should truly be of great concern to us because this government believes that our well-trained and professional police are no longer able to guarantee security in our country alone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That is why so-called safety forums are now to be installed. Citizens who can volunteer should be part of the security forums. They will then observe the people in their surroundings, their neighbors, whether they are not something more memoryful, and all of that, of course, from the point of view of security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of security and society, these people will see: What's suspicious? Now, in principle, I ask myself the question: What's really suspicious in the future? Is it suspicious in the future if someone opens the window every day at the same time and observes the events on the street? Is that suspicious? Is it suspicious in the future for a person to work from 4 a.m. to 6 p.m. before they start working early in the morning to edit the emails on the PC and turn the light on? Is that suspicious? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] We do not know, but if the observer is suspected of it, it will be reported to the Security Forum established in the Ministry of the Interior. Then, without suspicion, a machine can be set in motion, which for me is actually a human disaster. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, no one is sure who may be part of the Security Forum when and where. So I have to ask the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the government parties: Will these observers be declared? Then stand on the doorstep in the future: Attention, here's an observer, an observer of the Security Forum? Can you guarantee that? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Höbart and Mr Schimanek.]] If you can't guarantee that, it's a lot, much bigger disaster, because then it would be a reminder of that time, of which we all already believe, that's long history, this time is history. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Höbart:... lack of oxygen! There's no such thing as that!]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, does not this system also remind you of the so-called blockwart system in the Third Reich? [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, with people's trust you really don't play! Trust in the people who live around us is actually the basic prerequisite for social peace. Endangered by this law You have the social peace in this country. [[Abg. Höbart: This is really impossible!]] I'd just like to give you the following: All people in this country have a fundamental right to privacy. Therefore: No to this monitoring package! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12137	Mrs Jachs is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12158	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! When did you send the last SMS? I've been looking at it – it was more than three days ago, because in the meantime everything is only going on about WhatsApp and the like. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With regard to the technological progress that we can observe, it is only logical that we are now also legally implementing it. Worldwide, the number of phone minutes and text messages is falling, so it is necessary and good that we give our investigative authorities a good instrument so that they can continue to persecute criminals in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Let's just look at the fact: Criminals have WhatsApp, it's not so hard to install themselves, and we don't want them to withdraw from prosecution. That's why it's important now. We protect our population with the security package and do not operate mass surveillance or other fantasies that are happy to put the opposition in our mouths. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] In the Committee on Justice, we have really endeavored to implement the fundamental rights measures adequately. I'm just moving out the quick-freeze model. It is an event data storage and no stock data storage. We therefore comply with the ECJ's requirements, that is why that is all right. Besides, dear Opposition: You're always pretending to be alone on the other side of the hall. Look Just cross the border to the neighbouring country of Germany! Germany also has similar measures, and this only shows that it is important and right to keep pace with the technology and now also to decide on this security package. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, Mr Scherak is not here now, but I would like to focus quickly on two things he has mentioned: [[Abg. Scherak rises from his place]] Firstly, we do not in any way say goodbye to Internet security today, but the opposite is the case. [[Abg. Plessl: Have you not read the law?]] We ensure security against the dangers posed by the Internet. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Secondly, Mr. Scherak, you said we were going to suspect someone if he bought a value card handy. I'd like to disarm this. On the basis of your comments, I conclude that NEOS have the general suspicion that our investigative authorities are not careful to deal with the data of our citizens. [[Abg. Plessl:... Department BVT!]] Here the sprue separates itself from wheat; we government parties trust our executive, but NEOS obviously do not. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Law enforcement does not end at the border and should also be possible internationally and Europeanally. That is why a very brief word about European judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which we are negotiating today, which is a little forgotten in the discussion: The previous legal aid will be harmonised, regulations will be brought together, the high Austrian standards will by no means be removed. I'm glad that the SPÖ also sees it that way. Ladies and gentlemen, you see that we are concerned with protecting our citizens, not mass surveillance.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12248	Mr Einwallner is speaking next. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12269	Madam President. Representatives on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! This security package includes a wide range of measures that are an attack on the fundamental rights of our citizens, who restrict and restrict fundamental rights. Therefore, it is more than right to say that it is more a monitoring package than a security package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] With this bill and with this legislative matter, you will get more or less a free letter to access smartphones, tablets and computers. There are a number of opinions that share our critical attitude, starting from the Privacy Council to the Austrian Red Cross. If I'm already with the Data Protection Council, I have to say: Mr Herbert! Today you have proved what FPÖ can best do in recent times, namely fall by lying down. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Herbert: This is not true, my colleague. You have no idea!]] You are a member of the Data Protection Council, give a critical opinion there, and today you are waving this law. This is obviously the backbone that FPÖ still has in this country. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Another indication is that a public committee opinion was simply rejected by the government parties. You didn't want that, and you didn't want it at all, because you didn't want an objective discussion with experts on this matter. That's why you refused. There are many, many arguments and many topics. The Federal Trojan has been mentioned more often. A small aspect in relation to the Federal Trojan is the story with the prepaidhandys. We also discussed this in committee: Each SIM card must be registered, listed from 2019 onwards. Yes Believe You're actually saying that a potential criminal, a potential hazarder then uses an Austrian SIM card and doesn't go to Bratislava or somewhere else? There are no evaluations that confirm that this registration of the SIM card does not lead to a reduction in the crime at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, police work needs to adapt to the current circumstances. How far is it supposed to go? However, what it needs is proportionality, and this proportionality is no longer given. What you want to wink through here today is an attack on our fundamental rights and the fundamental rights of the population and, from our point of view, goes far too far! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12330	Next, Mr Ries. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12351	Madam President. Dear ladies on the government bank! Members of the House! I now allow myself to return to the subject matter. What do we advise here? – It is to ensure the sustainable fight against crime in Austria. That's why it's all about nothing else. Behind this objective lies a number of measures, using modern technology and communication, on the one hand, and the acquisition of traffic surveillance image data for law enforcement purposes. These are the key points. That's what this is all about. Why this is necessary is obvious: How can a rule of law, such as Austria, which is committed to the protection of citizens and must be operational, account for the fact that the most modern means of technology are not used to combat crime? I can tell you from my professional work: The organized crime is very likely to resort to technology, in all the nuances that are present. If we do not do this today as the rule of law, we – and unfortunately we are doing this right now – open a field protected from prosecution and prepare a colorful and densely covered gift table for organized crime. We from FPÖ and ÖVP are not ready for this. We want the rule of law to show its teeth and not a slipped tooth prosthesis. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Therefore, in the rough overview, internet-based messenger services should be monitored, because on this eye we are blind. This was also clearly reflected in the opinions of the prosecutors, in which we were informed: Phone surveillance in the conventional sense is becoming more and more ineffective, but not because perhaps less happens, but because the organized crime has long shifted to other channels, which we cannot now see. What else is this about? – It is intended to use existing video material by private – that the police can already do – so that it can be used in the sense of combating crime. [[Abg. Plessl: The police can do that right now!]] It should also be possible to archive it, particularly in sensitive places, where there is a public service contract, namely, as has already been said, at airports and railway stations. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Yes, thank you. What else do we want? – There should no longer be anonymous SIM cards in the future. Neither are we the first to do this, Germany has practised it since the previous year. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] I don't understand where the problem lies. 30 years ago we had everyone a phone, there was every single one registered. So were we less free? I don't understand. Furthermore, we want to fully benefit from registration systems as we have them in use, so that you not only see the registration mark, but also who sits in the vehicle and which vehicle it is; for the organized crime does not travel with your own car and your own registration, as much as I can tell you. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] However, I give you the right, worthy opposition, when you say that this is used in fundamental and freedom rights. That is true, but it does not happen without reason, there must be a reasonable suspicion of action. That's why it's very easy to tell people that the police are free to monitor every phone and computer. That's displeasure! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, those who want to fight crime effectively must use modern technology, and it must be done quickly, effectively and effectively. It is clear that there is a balance between fundamental rights intervention and this measure, and we are doing so with certainty because it is in the interests of security in that country. By the way, dear SPÖ, the use of video recordings for police purposes and the monitoring of the Internet, for example these messenger services, also means a well-known security expert from the SPÖ ranks. This can be read in the newspapers of the previous year, Hans Peter Doskozil said that. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Mr Gudenus and Mr Rosary.]] So I really don't understand why you don't want to follow your safety expert's recommendation in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, as Members of the House, we must not allow ourselves to watch terrorists and criminals use the security gaps in Austria shamelessly. It is our duty to act against it and return its sharp teeth to the rule of law! [[Abg. Plessl:... Bundestrojaner!]] Therefore: Bite, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, your teeth together, vote for an efficient crime fight, and vote for a strong rule of law in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12456	Mrs. Köstinger, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12488	Madam President. Appreciate High House! As you will certainly know, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister Josef Moser today is not in plenary for health reasons and therefore does not explain the security package. That's why I represent him today. I would be very pleased if Mr Fichtinger was also aware of this. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I should like to briefly explain the most important aspects of its area of responsibility to the Federal Government as a whole. Our executive and, above all, the judiciary are doing excellent work, so Austria is, worldwide, one of the safest countries in the world. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In the same way, we are the leaders when it comes to carrying out criminal proceedings in accordance with fundamental and personal rights. The rule of law is one of the highest goods in the country. This quality is the basis for a high level of security and trust in our state institutions. It is important to us that this good security situation continues to be maintained and improved where there are opportunities and, above all, improvement needs. We are faced with major challenges that we must face. This includes, for example, the effective persecution of terrorism, the fight against the increasing cross-border, organised crime and the threat to society by new areas of crime inside and outside cyberspace. We must do everything we can to ensure that our legal order is constantly adapted to such new dangers and threats. Our authorities therefore need equipment and possibilities that are up-to-date. If we do not ensure that, we will always be at a disadvantage to organised crime. We are today fulfilling this claim and this objective with the decision of the Security Package. At the same time, this package guarantees maximum transparency and legal protection in accordance with our principles of the rule of law. The current safety package includes suggestions from a total of three assessment procedures and the results of the work of a high-level cross-border expert group. On behalf of my colleague Josef Moser, I would like to thank all those who have been constructively involved in this process. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The package stands for a substantial procedural law based on the fundamental rights and principles of the rule of law. The main objective is four judicial investigation measures: firstly, the creation of an explicit legal regime for the investigation of the localisation of a technical institution that has been used for years without the participation of an operator, with public prosecutor's order and judicial authorisation; secondly, the re-regulation of procedural provisions for the confiscation of letters; thirdly, the introduction of a new investigation procedure for the surveillance of encrypted messages via WhatsApp and Skype. It is not acceptable for criminals to take advantage of a legal gap by switching from phone calls or text dialogues to WhatsApp when it becomes tricky. We all know that modern messenger services and Internet-based encrypted communications are becoming more and more important. It is therefore high time to give law enforcement authorities the opportunity to monitor this communication in the event of serious crime, terrorism and serious crimes against body and life or sexual integrity. Of course, this can only happen on grounds of suspicion. Each individual case will be subject to the strictest conditions, the best possible control and attention the legal protection, including comprehensive subsequent information of the parties concerned. The legal requirements for this measure are very high. It's not about bagatella offences, it's about serious suspicions: a crime threatened with more than ten years of imprisonment, or the investigation or prevention of terrorists, or a crime against body, life, or sexual integrity and self-determination threatened with more than five years of imprisonment. In addition to a reasoned order of the Public Prosecutor's Office and a judicial authorisation, there is extensive legal protection transparency and close control. In addition, this investigation measure will initially apply for five years in a limited time, with a mandatory evaluation after three years. I expressly note that no mass surveillance and no on-line searches take place and only in individual cases is the human-to-human communication affected. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The introduction of a new investigation measure, i.e. the on-the-spot data storage, the so-called Quick Freeze on a public prosecutor's order is comparable to a customer's opposition to the billing of a telecommunications operator. This means that data from a connection – well noticed: no content, as already mentioned several times falsely – cannot be deleted from the operator for a maximum of 12 months. However, no data has yet been transmitted to the law enforcement authorities. The prerequisites for this are intentional crime with a penalty of more than one year imprisonment or an urgent suspicion of crime. This completely new regulation of the so-called Quick Freeze is, in turn, not mass monitoring, but a case-by-case measure that has nothing to do with the storage of data. It takes into account the fundamental requirements in the light of the ECJ's recent jurisdiction. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that as a Member of the National Council, but also as a critical citizen of the fundamental rights of citizens You today give your consent to this balanced and proportionate package. Let us therefore go together on the path of reason, the rule of law and security! – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12588	Thank you, Mrs. Minister. The next item is Mrs Hochstetter-Lackner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12612	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! If you follow the discussion closely – and I have done so – then you will inevitably ask yourself the question: What's this all about? Why simply piss through the surveillance package like that? Why don't you hold in and just look: What's going on? – No, the government parties crush and destroy the privacy and intimacy of the Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen, this is archival policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's amazing when the state commissions a private company to find security gaps so that it can use them as well. I ask myself the question, whether our state, with this federal government, wants to penetrate into the fabrications of an IT mafia, because for me it should be such that the state closes the security gaps and does not open them. The state should provide us with the greatest possible protection for citizens! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What you're doing with this law, Minister – he's not here once again, when I speak – is to stir up uncertainty and fears. That is why this law, simply said, is an insecurity law. In the field of computerization alone, two police officers should currently be employed in Austria in each district, simply as it should be, to observe the area of the New Media as well. What is happening in this area at present? – Computers are missing, planning is missing, mobile phones are missing, and so on and so on. So how do you want to implement such a comprehensive law properly if you already fail to do this little thing if, in the field of computerization, there is already a failure to conduct a simple public survey without pans? Without going into the government's further margins, I'm just saying: BAT scandal, the Wanzenstory at the Vice-Chancellor and, and, and. One scandal has hunted the other in the last few weeks and months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now I still call you some well-known organizations: Amnesty International, the Austrian Notarial Chamber, the Austrian Red Cross, the Faculty of Law Innsbruck, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. It is known that – for the mandates of the government parties – all these are not SPÖ-pre-eminent organisations. What do these organizations have in common? – They have written all the negative opinions on this law and expressed their concerns. In every organization are great lawyers, great experts who are flashing, and they have already expressed their concerns about this. So I appeal to the National Councils of the ÖVP and the FPÖ: Rethink your decision! Don't be taken by the force of clubs and vote against this law today!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12679	Mr Lugar is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12700	Madam President. High house! Because the SPÖ is so excited: I remember when Mrs. Merkel was heard from the NSA. There was no yell from your side. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] These hearings were, however, without judicial order. I don't think Mrs. Merkel was a criminal. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] When that was the subject, there was no cry from the SPÖ. Come today. They come out here and complain when we take a measure that has only one purpose, namely to protect people from becoming victims of a crime, or to clarify a crime that has already happened as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I will now give you an example, and this event has not been so long ago: the Boston Marathon. You know, at that time there were three dead and 264 seriously injured. Within 100 days, this crime was resolved. If it had not been possible to resort to all the possibilities offered, including alternative and electronic investigation, then the terrorists with the packed suitcase in which the bomb was located would have come to New York and would have killed many, many people there and injured more! Because you used everything that was available – whether the surveillance cameras were, were the private videos, were those hearings too – you have been able to explain this crime within 100 days and stop the perpetrators with the packed bombs. That saves life, and that's exactly what it's all about! It is about getting murderers, rapists and terrorists out of traffic either in advance or preventing them from becoming serial offenders. That can save human life, and you don't seem to want it. Since you're always talking about mass surveillance: Mr Noll has today provided proof that this mass surveillance is not technically at all possible. Mr Noll, our intellectual superstar here in the House – according to our own details – has said today that this is probably up to 1 million euros per case, because it is incredibly difficult. [[Demonstratetive applause with the list of fungus]] [[Intervocations at FPÖ and list of fungus]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Calculate whether mass monitoring is technically and above all possible from the cost! Yeah, it's true, of course. It's like sports, like doping. In sport, we know that is done, and therefore there are doping hunters who need to develop new methods of analysis each year in order to be up-to-date. Of course it's expensive, of course it's complicated. But if you don't, the honest ones will be fools. We want to stop that! That's exactly the same thing we see with what you're doing here. If you oppose a reasonable measure here, the people who are unspoiled will become the fools, because they will then be victims of a crime that we could have prevented; if you do not just oppose it because you are now opposed. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] You've also exposed yourself today. One of the SPÖs – I don't know who that was anymore – came out today and said: In all the terrorist attacks, we knew in advance of the assassins. Well, what do you think, why? Do you believe that any of those you left in the country have come here and filled out on entry: yes, I am a terrorist? One has known it because one monitors suspects because one sees who communicates with them, even in the terrorist environment, even in the Salafist environment. That's what's being monitored, and that's a good thing! [[Abg. Gudenus:... Friends of the SPÖ! Salafist Party of Austria!]] That is why we know where the hazards are, and that is why it is good that we continue to monitor these hazards. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we have 300 perils in the country, according to the information of the last Minister of the Interior here in Austria, which by the way, you have most of the people in it, then I want us to control it step by step. [[towards SPÖ:]] That's also what it's about, that we know who they're talking to, that we know who they're talking to, that we know who they might be planning attacks with. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In Germany alone, eight major attacks have been eroded in recent years, precisely by such measures. You don't want that? You really don't want that? Look, of course there is the right to privacy. Every human being has a right to privacy, every human being! [[Abg. Gudenus: The perils are not!]] If you - - So what we want is to deny the right to privacy only those who are murderers, rapists or terrorists, so criminals! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you say that these possibilities – which are perfectly controlled, which must also be approved by a judge – could be used against unspoiled citizens, perhaps even against Members, then this only shows how you think. They say: As the bad guy thinks, so is he. That is to say, this general suspicion that you are speaking here to all those who control what restricts it is clearly unfair to those who day by day make sure that we can live in security. – Because that’s exactly what it’s all about! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] That's why: We don't need to protect the rights of murderers, rapists or terrorists. What we need to do – we are obliged to do, each of us – is to ensure the safety of the people in Austria. That's what we have to do! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] I cannot understand this sympathy for people who are criminal, who have to expect a penalty of up to ten years or even over – except when you see that you have now come to a brachial opposition that was unimaginable a few months ago. That's why: Get a little more sensible again! It has been very sympathetic in recent years when you have tried to approach things within the scope of your possibilities. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Do not make a brachial opposition, but admit that this measure is necessary in the interests of the security of citizens, and agree! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12853	Mr Plessl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12880	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My dear colleagues! As the last speaker of our group, I have to clarify a few of the arguments that have been put forward by a number of previous speakers. We are talking about a surveillance package, which is being dealt with here in two parts, both internal and judicial. Mr. Prince! Yes, Mr Pendl knows what we stand for, otherwise we would have had this security package you wanted to implement at the time. We do not have it because we have asked for certain things that the EIA did not want. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] But I would like to say one thing: Access and solutions have simply been misplaced. Using pictures and video material, ladies and gentlemen, the police can do it right now. You have brought about a change in that you have taken the orders from the prosecutor, the judges and entered the security police law. The other area – Imsi-Catcher, which has already been addressed – was set by the Security Police Act on a judicial level. The problem with this is that the EIA has not been prepared to introduce a so-called legal protection Senate, a higher level of control, so as to ensure that the Sovereign – including the Members here – can carry out control, with similar integration, such as in the case of the Court of Auditors. We held this discussion under the former government; also the FPÖ – Rosary, Darmann – was very similar. Mr Rosenkranz has even said in committee that we need to increase the level of legal protection. This is the point that we are calling for here, so that we can also ensure that abuse can be stopped, a stronger control can be carried out. That is where the FPÖ fell, ladies and gentlemen, completely fallen by! [[Call the FPÖ:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] What she promised she didn't implement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why is there an uncertainty, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Listen, because you're gonna make it!]] The Causa BVT speaks for itself. It is not the competent department in the Ministry of the Interior to deal with this matter concerning the supposedly undeleted data. [[Abg. Neubauer: You harm your own profession!]] The competent legal protection officer has not even been involved – he is responsible under the Security Police Act – in order to be able to monitor the deletion. He has not even been involved, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. And then you ask us as the opposition party why we can't have confidence in this government?- Oh, my God! If such incidents happen in this area?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] [[Abg. Lausch: You are using your own colleagues!]] Justice: This federal trojan is the greatest disappointment, and everyone who is only a little concerned with the subject will be obliged to do so. – colleague Lugar, okay, you've already had a lot of homes, I know. Some people may not have read this intensively and did not discuss it with experts, which we absolutely wanted, that would have been possible. This is an area where fundamental and freedom rights are severely affected. [[Abg. Rosary: Which one?]] We want the police to have the opportunity to get her to be a culprit. However, we have another access, ladies and gentlemen, regarding the area in which investment is now being made. A monitoring measure costs only 1 million euros! 1 million euros! – The solution, Mr Stefan, is that we also think about the EU Presidency, because this problem we have in Austria has not only Austria but many other countries in this European Union. [[Abg. Stefan: So what is the solution?]] [[Abg. Rosary: Ah so, okay!]] [[Abg. Stefan: That's the solution?]] We should stop those companies operating in this area from working together at European level, where the Minister of the Interior would be required to seek solutions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stefan: We have seen what the EU is doing in 2015!]] [[Abg. Haider: That worked wonderfully during the migration!]] Finally, one more thing: Which companies offer this service so that we can also implement this Bundestrojan? – Yes, right, Mr Rosenkranz, some Israeli companies. [[Abg. Rosary: Black Market, there...!]] [[Abg. Rosary: And you still believe that!]] And I have to say quite honestly - - - No, Germany is buying, Mr. former Minister of the Interior, Mr. National Council President! [[Abg. Sobotka: Germany!]] They also buy one. They have put millions in and tried to work it out by themselves – they have not managed to do so. Access would have been here not to open a hole into which millions of euros would be pumped into. Mr. Lugar, you talked about hazards. Risks include those in family disputes. I'm talking about terrorist suspects, and that's about 200. [[Abg. Rosary: We too!]] Mr Lugar used the wrong name, you have to correct that. It is about 200 terrorist suspects, who have to be dealt with accordingly, but not with this access, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Gudenus: In retrospect, then, or what? If a bomb exploded?]] Here a security gap is deliberately left open by the Ministry of the Interior, and the Ministry of the Interior would be responsible for closing this gap. This is very bad, irresponsible and does not correspond to fundamental and freedom rights. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13132	The next item is the speech by Mr Noll. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13153	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I've always been frantic about good testimonies. The only problem is that the certificates issued by Mr Lugar have no special purchasing power in the spirit life. That's the problem. Minister Kickl, who is well represented here – that's all right – spoke to me personally, but then quickly gave me heels money. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] I think that's quite uneducated. If you don't have any manners, you can't really trust him to comply with the law. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] He has assembled that the opposition here takes too few themes. That is what he does, while as a minister he is not limited in speaking time, but of course we are subject to a time limit. [[Abg. Checkout: Read the Rules of Procedure: limited by 20 minutes!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I can promise you, I have at least 113 reasons to be against this monitoring package. At the end of the debate, I want to present two again. If it is said here by the government and by the majority group that the whole thing would be directed against the comfort zone of criminals, terrorists, suspects and so on, then I would ask you – or at least the viewers who look at the whole thing again – to consider § 135a Abs. 1 Z 3 lit. (b) to look at. That's just a lie! [[Call ÖVP and FPÖ:Order call! Ordinary call!]] This federal trojan is also directed against...
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13212	Mr Noll! For the term “loyal” I give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13250	Then it is at least the untruth. It is the untruth, because you all have formulated something in your government template, which means that non-activists can also be implemented by the federal trojans. You can read that. Whoever says something untrue in case and purpose, Madam President, may be called a liar according to the OGH Judicatur and also the Judicatur of the EGMR. A second example that you have dropped under the table: After the end of the suspicion and after the end of the surveillance possibility, the authority is called upon to uninstall the Bundestrojaner from the devices. Why should the Authority continue to enter foreign devices after the end of the suspicion and after the end of all the reasons for the surveillance, ensure that the device is manipulatively processed to produce the functionality, and, although there are no more grounds for suspecting and monitoring, needs to work and manipulate a device again? This is a monitoring package, and you keep the Austrian population unclear about the reasons and causes and effects of this law – at least that.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13290	The next item is the speech by Mr Rosenkranz. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13321	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! At the end of this debate, I am not turning to the representatives of the opposition parties, because there is literally a loss of hops and malts, but I am addressing the people who live in Austria; of course, these are all Austrians and all the other people who are legally present here and are pursuing their legal activities. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] These people don't need to be afraid of dealing with their computers, laptops, phones or anything else – that doesn't interest people! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Dear people you stop in Austria to commit terrorist attacks here, to conduct organized crime, to commit drug crime, to commit crimes that may endanger the sexual integrity of our children, yes, you can fear, and that is good! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] If there is talk here about the restriction of fundamental and, above all, freedom of movement: Yes, I am in favour of restricting freedom of movement where an Austrian court has spoken the judgment and an Austrian judicial officer then turns the cell key around so that the convicted person remains inside. Yes, for that I am – fully! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear Austrians! Dear compatriots and all those who are legally in Austria! A picture will be drawn here that in the future the office of Mr. Kickl's Minister of the Interior will look like when you go to the next metro station and see an officer sitting there from the Vienna lines in front of eight shields that Minister Kickl will have an office with about 1 million screens, 500,000 computer screens and 2,000 speakers where he can then hear and see everything. Dear Austrians! Don't let yourself be fooled by the opposition! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] But you can think of something else. Remember, as a driver in Austria, that you are always filmed every day at Section Control and in monitoring whether you have glued a vignette! According to the opposition parties, this is perfectly okay. But if you are one who wants to make a terrorist attack, if you're a drug courier, or if you want to do some other organized crime, perhaps trafficking in girls, trafficking in women, trafficking in human beings, then that's an intervention in fundamental and freedom rights for the opposition. [[Abg. Rädler: That's the core problem!]] – No, the core problem is that Mr. Kern is never here. This is actually the core problem; also yesterday at the vote on the budget: cancelled. [[Cheerfulness and applause at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs Griss! Thanks to the policy of our Minister of the Interior, your friend in Austria will hopefully be able to go unhindered and alone. It doesn't interest anyone in that state, whether it's alone, too two or otherwise. Nobody! The state doesn't care. However, if your friend is a member of the circle of drug dealers or other criminals, the state may be interested in it. Or what would be much worse for your girlfriend: Should your girlfriend become victims of a crime and the camera - you find it funny, Mrs. Colleague, gell, when we talk about what happens every day in Austria, namely assaults on women! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Cox]] You think that's funny! Shame! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] If it is used to solve these crimes, then the state may be interested in what a video camera accidentally recorded. That's what it looks like. I come to the conclusion: It is about preventing the most serious crime in Austria, and if not prevent it from being resolved. For this purpose only, there is this restriction, and there is no need for you to have any distrust in our rule of law. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] You don't need to have any distrust in our police, in our prosecutor's office and in our judges. You don't need to be suspicious. [[Abg. Kolba: But against you, Mr. Rosary!]] Finally, something personal: Mr Noll has just spoken about the unhappiness of the Federal Minister because he is no longer there and has not listened – although he has not even spoken to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] Mr Noll, University Professor Dr. Noll, colleague here in the House! I respect your performance. You've completed tertiary education, you're an academic teacher. That's a great performance. I respect that. However, one thing, and that's something I just don't know with your human image - - - Yes, you also find that funny. [[Cheerfulness in the list of mushrooms.]] – I can still remember that it was only recently that you accused of this pult from the Interior Minister that he could not actually say so, he is a drop-off. [[Abg. No, no!]] That pride of yours and this human understanding, I reject! Read your own speech in the Minutes if you can no longer remember! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can only tell you one thing: That's unfair, and this pride comes before the case. If you really have human education and education, then you do the act of courtesy and apologise to Mr. Kickl, the Minister of the Interior, who has only one point in mind: to make the Republic of Austria safer! Mr Plessl also said that legal protection should be better developed. If he had read the government programme, he would have seen it also say that this government would also want to improve legal protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] I understand your impatience. You believe yes – and there you are quite right because the FPÖ is also so knitted – we actually bring things much faster, in a few months, over the stage that you did not bring together in twenty years. That's clear. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But still: Have patience with your assessment until the end of this legislative period! Then you'll see what's done. I think you want it much faster. I also see this with some of our voters, who are also impatient with us liberals in the government, but I can only tell them that much is not going to happen overnight, just as you seem to believe it. Rate us before the end of this legislative period! However, I do not think that you will, even if we implement all of this, be free to choose. That's why my appeal is: Dear compatriots, watch us and don't let us in!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13476	Next item is the report by Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13503	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! After this profoundly unsavory speech, it is a need to clarify something here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] [[Abg. Höbart: What's the matter? You're unscrupulous!]] If only 30 percent of what Mr Rosenkranz has said here are voting, it would be very nice, Mr President. But I don't think the people who watch us – who don't believe in us here anyway, but those on the screens – believe all that. That's why I'm wondering that you're trying. Ladies and gentlemen! What is it really about? Mr President Sobotka is sitting here; it is about the fact that under your leadership the Ministry of the Interior has also gotten a huge problem because we have far too few police officers, one of the worst equipped police in Europe. [[Abg. Sobotka: Don't tell such a layer: badly equipped! Where have you been in Europe?]] Now, obviously, it is a matter of deceiving all of this by saying: There's got to be something to improve, the situation is very bad, we need something! And that's the federal trojan we're putting millions into! [[Abg. Sobotka: There you have to laugh yourself because you don't believe it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is so unscrupulous. I don't think anyone can believe that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A few days ago, we all experienced it here: We know that the prosecutor's office needs electronic measures to be able to detect crimes, but within the framework of the Security/Justice budget, the funds for the electronic measures have been reduced by 40 percent, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Plessl: That's unheard of!]] Yes, how do you explain to the people outside that exactly the funds for the electronic measures that are necessary are reduced by 40 percent? [[Abg. Plessl: They have fallen by!]] Then Mr. Rosary comes out and says it's all so bad, the opposition makes it so bad. [[Abg. Rosary: He understood! You really understood that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Homemade is this uncertainty that you are fabricating, and the solution is simply a naughtiness. There you can tell us something with untruths for hours, that doesn't make it any better. I'm satisfied because people aren't so stupid about believing that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13618	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs wish for a final word? - That's not the case. Ladies and gentlemen! I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 8 to 11 of the agenda so that the request for urgent debate can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[14:58:37]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues in the Federal Minister for EU, Art, Culture and Media on “Salvation for World Heritage” (716/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13654	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 716/J. As this has since been reached by all the Members, the reading by the writer is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13864	I now give honourable Member Zinggl as the first questioner to state the reasons for the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13885	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Minister Blümel! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry to have to make this urgent request here today – but just a bit of a bit, I'm saying, so that there's no mistake. Why is this issue of possible loss of world heritage so urgent? – Austria is on top of it and insists on blaming itself in an international pitiful way. In just over two months, in turn, the Congress of delegates from many countries of the world, the Congress of Monumentists and the UNESCO World Heritage Specialists, and Austria has not done its homework to get it done by the Unesco. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] As you know, for years Austria has been on the agenda of this body, which meets only once a year, and on the agenda are the particularly difficult cases – cases that normally arise in crisis areas, in war zones, in disaster areas where the world heritage is extremely endangered, and the Unesco wants to help as well. However, if Austria is one of these problem countries again and again, because it itself does not fulfil the international treaties, because it itself does not fulfil its obligations, then Unesco, ladies and gentlemen, is quite mad at Austria. Mr Federal Minister, you have been aware of this recently, as I have known for a long time: Austria has put itself in distress and is thus at the same level as countries shaken by war, crises and disasters. For this, I believe, Unesco rightly has no understanding, and it is urgent because in two months, this conference, as I have said, will meet again and decide whether the World Heritage Site, the centre of Vienna, will continue to remain such a thing, or whether Vienna, whether Austria will definitely lose this title, because someday the Unesco of the collars will also burst. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wheeler]] For six years Austria has been at the top of the agenda each year with the same theme. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] I suppose you all know what I'm talking about: In the historic centre of Vienna, in the core area of the World Heritage Site, two high-rise houses are to be created, high-rise houses that serve to build a few luxury apartments on the top floors, from which the view of the historic centre of Vienna is particularly good. That's exactly what many people in Austria say: This project cannot be, this project must encounter resistance, this project is just as it is now made possible in terms of land dedication, unbearable and diametrically contradicts the interests of a country that calls itself a cultural nation and that should actually be exemplary in ensuring that what was entrusted to it and what is world heritage is protected. [[Abg. Rädler:... responsibility has!]] There is a legend that has kept itself for years and is still curated, and this is the legend that one can negotiate with the Unesco about it perhaps extraordinarily, or that the core area is being reduced. That's a legend, and I know what I'm talking about, because I've been in the Unesco Commission for years. Unesco doesn't negotiate these things, and not even after six years. The Unesco has very certain rules, it has quite certain guidelines that it has agreed with Austria, with any other State that has signed the Convention, and the Unesco is interested in complying with these rules, and must also be careful that all the states come and do what they want, and that cannot be so sure. But no one needs to suspect something wrong: The Unesco is certainly not reactionary. There are 150 people inside, who know exactly that cities are also developing and that cities and centers of the world heritage must also develop, but with a measure and adapted to the respective environment, to the structure, to morphology, which, so to speak, constitute this heritage character. If the terms laid down in the Treaties were to do so, I would say that they should also be respected by Austria, since the protected core area in Vienna represents only 1 percent of the total area, 1 percent of the urban area – in contrast to Venice, for example, which protected 80 percent of its area. They have much harder, and yet no politician in Venice would tolerate building a 66 meter high tower next to the Santa Maria della Salute or next to the Campanile. 1 per cent means that if you want to take care of your 100 square meter apartment, 1 square meter, i.e. a spot of the size of a sofa. I don't think it's too much to take care of such a thing, even if you want it yourself. There can be no mention of cheese bell or museumization, and no one will say that, despite this seal of goodness, Vienna is not a vibrant and lively city, just like all other world heritage centers in Europe, such as Lyon, there will be no one saying that it is a dead city – like Rome or Prague. Prague is a good example, for in Prague there has been a similar case where a builder with a renowned architect – Frank Gehry – wanted to build a high-rise building with this truly world-famous, famous architect, but ultimately the city has given up the interventions of Unesco, relatively quickly and clearly, and has asked the architects to comply with the guidelines, and here, Frank Gehry has one of the most famous buildings – you will probably know, the two dancing towers Ginger & Fred – built, and it was a master achievement, which is why it is worth going there alone. Now you could ask: What 1% in Vienna are these, and who has determined them? – Austria or Vienna has determined this itself. We have been it, first Vienna and then Austria, who went to Unesco and said: If you come here with your Commission, look at that, that's something that matters to the world, that should be protected! – The committee was there, they have looked at everything, they have carefully examined it, have provided it with appropriate conditions and have said that is worth protecting, please watch it, and they have also made it very transparent, what is going on and what is not going on – and Austria also has a seat in this committee. Then, 2012 with the first plans of this high-rise house on the Heumarkt next to the city park, Unesco Austria warned and said: I can't, it's too high! – However, none of the political leaders were interested, not in the competent ministry, not in the city of Vienna. The city has even put one on it and has removed all its own protective mechanisms that it had and finally, last year, also changed the layout of the land in such a way that buildings can be built. That was a provocation for the Unesco, in my opinion quite rightly, – somehow it must be careful not to follow this example – and it has also placed Vienna on the Red List of Endangered World Heritage Sites. That's very, very rare. What does that mean now? – This means that Vienna and Austria once again have the opportunity to change the course. Austria should report to Unesco to the extent to which these land dedications were reversed. Whatever Austria has done to change the Unesco. It's almost nothing. The Unesco reports have been delivered that we also enter into discussions and make workshops, but I think that is a little too little for the Unesco to keep the status, and I think it can happen that in two months Vienna finally loses world heritage status. Finally, it really means final; once you're away from the list, there's no return. There are also no reductions or anything similar, and a ridiculous scenario for international cultural world public cannot happen to us at all. Interesting is the consequences: Once the world heritage status is gone, a similar building can be built at any time in the centre of Vienna, because there is no reason to deny this to a builder. First of all, Vienna is no longer a cultural world heritage, and second: If one has approved of a construction site, what is the reason why one rejects it on the second? – These are the beautiful prospects, ladies and gentlemen, before whom I am a little gray. For the real estate sharks, for speculators, for investors, for the construction industry, for the construction lions, this may be a great prospect: at last no more annoying obstacles, no more barriers to heights, an Eldorado for the speculators! After that, and this is also clear, however, this city is interchangeable and looks like many others in the world, a city in which the historical heritage between the shoe boxes goes down with holes and disappears, all so that a speculant can make millions of profits or thus a few have a magnificent view of a residential tower in the middle of the city that can enjoy the view of the former world heritage that they destroyed with this building. That is, the owners of these luxury apartments are looking at this world heritage that they have broken. This reminds me of this running gag of the 1960s over the Danube Tower. There was criticism of this building, and then the question came up: In which place is Vienna the most beautiful? – On the Danube Tower, because that is the only place in Vienna where you don’t see the Danube Tower. [[Abg. Shh! Shh! Ah, nice!]] That's exactly what applies to this residential tower on the hay market. It's not built there, it's not built there, it's not building a university, it's not what's of public interest and what you could say about it, it's the city, it's got something of it. No, they have nothing of it, the municipality of Vienna does not even have a monetary profit, as the other countries do, for example Switzerland. Switzerland makes it so that it says: When we move around, then a percentage of the profit – not once, but always, of every profit – has to flow to the city. This is, for example, a relatively high percentage in the city of Basel, while 70 percent of the profits go to the city of Basel. Why is this not happening in Vienna? – I can answer that: because the investors are supposed to make too little money. That was actually the answer I got at a panel discussion. I can only say: So what? What does that matter to me if an investor earns enough? One thing, however, is notable in the whole story and in a really horrific way: Austria thus gives an international example that can also be speculated on world heritage sites. What does that mean? – So far, one has been able to acquire grounds on a world-protected spot, but it could hardly be built anything; build perhaps, but not great, demonstrative, the land-changing buildings, and therefore these plots are not so expensive either, they are relatively lucrative. However, if it succeeds in changing the dedication, then the prices naturally rise enormously. We know that the land up, downland, is always being made around the world, but never until now in connection with a protected area, a protected place of world heritage. Austria is now giving an excellent example, because from now on it is probably also speculated internationally on other world heritage sites – well, one thing or another is gone! That's how it goes: Privatisation of the common public good, dissuadement of the added value created by the Community's care for generations. So that we don't misunderstand: The investors, the speculators are not really the problem we have to deal with here. They simply do what they do and what the shareholders are investing for. In connection with the high-rise project on the Heumarkt, for example, these are partners and speculators who have also made a name for themselves in the Hypo-Alpe-Adria scandal in Carinthia. That's all I have to say, I don't think. Let us return to the things that we can really change, let us return to politics! For example, how can it be that the people around Tojner and himself have received the award in the bidder procedure for the Heumarkt project, although others would have offered more than double? That's a question, it's kind of on the verge, you can say: Yes, that's actually bad, it shouldn't have been, but my God, that's what happened. Where was politics? After all, this was the Vienna city extension fund; this is not a Vienna institution, but was in the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. In 2008 this property on the Wiener Heumarkt was sold much too cheap, for 4.2 million euros, by the public hand, a property in the middle of Vienna – you know it, Eislaufverein – by 4.2 million euros! At the time, the Court of Auditors strongly criticized this sale and said that something like this should never have happened, because at the same time an amount of EUR 9 million was offered – still too little. The problem is responsible policy, and I think it has a duty to stop this development. More and more often, the investors I believe are better called speculators – the Tojners, Haselsteiners, Lenikus’, Soravias, Benkos, whatever they are called – dictate what is to be approved. [[Abg. Wheeler: The NEOS!]] They determine what is to be approved, and not the monument office, and not politics. [[Abg. Rädler: Run like smooth with the NEOS!]] Politics is watching, even helping and making decisions behind closed doors that are extremely dangerous to the common good. It is not surprising, either, that such a powerful medium as the “Kronen Zeitung” is suddenly, although it is always on the side of the citizens of anger and is opposed to anti-citizen projects, in this case it is particularly reticent, quiet, and almost supportive; no cannons are raised. Maybe this has to do with the investor being a good friend and business partner of the Digand family. [[Abg. Rädler: What about the greens?]] I ask you now, Minister: Why to Become You're not working there? Why Come You just have any discussions you want to do with workshops? – First, you can file a constitutional complaint against the dedication of the city of Vienna. Secondly, you can instruct the mayor, he may take care that the dedication of the land is reversed, and in the end – and we have considered this very carefully – you can take legal measures that overrun the city of Vienna and thus ensure that the world heritage is guaranteed. That's why you didn't do that. You don't believe in your efforts. [[Abg. Rädler: What did the Greens do?]] I think you want to drive the red-green city government ahead of you, because if the world heritage falls, you can say: I've done everything and they're to blame! – But you’re guilty if you don’t do what you could do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14021	To answer the question, the Federal Minister for EU, Art, Culture and Media, Mag. Gernot Blümel, to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14042	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zinggl! First of all, this urgent request is a particular one, because we agree in the problem analysis and in many facts to 100 percent on this painful situation. I too believe that it must be worth it and possible to bring the World Heritage Site in Vienna, the Predicate of World Cultural Heritage and the development of the city into a hat. I was very pleased personally when my home city applied for World Heritage status about 20 years ago, and I was pleased to have the Unesco granted World Heritage status to the city of Vienna, namely for de facto two areas, on the one hand the inner city and on the other hand the area around Schönbrunn Castle. Overall, they are – you have already done it – only about 1 percent of the building substance of the city of Vienna, and therefore one cannot say that world cultural heritage cannot be combined with urban development. In this report, we agree a hundred percent. We also agree a hundred percent that it is a certain embarrassment that Austria, together with Vienna, is now exposed to this situation, that the Unesco has put the World Heritage Site on the Red List for the Inner City. That means de facto: Attention, if this continues, will be denied this predicate! It is also so embarrassing for politics, especially for red-green urban policy, because this is hardly happening in this form of de facto worldwide. Of course, it always happens that cultural sites are recognized of the status of the world's heritage, especially if there are civil wars or natural disasters, but not because a red-green city government is unable to adhere to what it itself has granted, what it has applied for. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I have also regularly pointed out in my previous activity as the City Council of Vienna that this cannot be so and that we have the rules we ourselves we have had to comply with what we have applied for ourselves, no matter what city government it was. I have had many conversations with representatives of the Unesco, with representatives of Icomos, also with the investor himself, and it has been repeatedly pointed out that this was now the drop of the red-green city government that has made the barrel overflow. During the last ten years, unfortunately, God has repeatedly been complaining by the Unesco about how red-green deals with the building regulations, especially as regards the 1st century. It's a district. When I got a chance about three months ago to become a Federal Minister for Art and Culture, in whose area is also the administration of the State Treaty concerning Unesco, we immediately considered what possibilities there are. The first thing we did was not go on just as it happened the years before. Whenever Unesco requested a status report from the Federal Chancellery, the city of Vienna was asked. The city of Vienna has delivered an opinion, and the Federal Chancellery has forwarded it to the Unesco. As a result, the opinion of the Federal Chancellery was almost equivalent to that of the city of Vienna. We have broken through this vicious circle by saying that we too want to turn on and see what really is and where we could make a contribution to clarifying the situation. Unfortunately, it is a fact of God that there was no longer a culture of conversation due to various rejections on both sides. Salopp formulated: The Unesco and the city of Vienna were ate at each other and no longer talked to each other. We must break through this vicious circle in order to preserve the possibility that the World Heritage Status for Vienna will be preserved. We have also looked at the legal possibilities and I have also tried to find out some of the opinions you quote in the request. I can tell you that the constitutional action is the Ultima Ratio, which we will naturally apply if the dialogues do not lead to success. But she's the last step. It is the last step, above all, because there are different expert opinions on whether it would have been crowned of success. Before we take this means and then perhaps come to the decision that it is not possible to bring about an amendment by complaint, I would like to try, by diplomatic means, at least by means of dialogue, to bring both sides together and so perhaps to ensure that the World Heritage Site is preserved for Vienna. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I now come to the concrete answer to the 30 questions you have sent me this morning, and I would like to start with the following answers: Questions 1 and 2 and 25 and 26: This procedure was written by the director of the World Heritage Center in a letter dated 22 February. February 2018 expressly welcomed. It is literally noted that, after consulting the proposed route with Icomos International, one is interested in the process of a serious discussion and sees this as the case. This means a deep work of content with all related issues and aspects. This is not done in a few weeks. It is therefore appropriate to wait for the overall result before considering any legal action. Implementation is planned as follows: There are three steps, an expert workshop, a Heritage Impact Assessment and an advisory mission to the historic World Heritage Site of Vienna. The performance has been carried out with a workshop on 14 and 15. ==References== Questions 3 to 5: This question was discussed directly with the representatives of the World Heritage Center prior to the submission of the State of Conservation Report 2018 by the Permanent Representation of Austria at Unesco. The answer was clear: The entry into the so-called Red List is a first step towards the recognition of world heritage status. It is the start of an intensive dialogue. This dialogue has been launched and will continue throughout the year. On question 6: The question of legal proceedings depends on the way in which the city of Vienna takes place within the framework of the process foreseen for 2018 and the opinion it gives on the final results and conclusions. Intensive material work is needed on the case. Expert experts are asked to submit an appropriate assessment and then the Ultima Ratio is to be used if there is no result. Questions 7 to 21, 23 and 24, 28 and 29: Firstly, we need measures and decisions at the political level. Whether legal action is at all necessary depends on participation in the process and the subsequent steps of the city of Vienna. From my point of view, any legal action is the very last option you should choose to impose on you the requirements of the UNESCO World Heritage to deal with the historical center. On the question 22: The people responsible for the World Heritage Site in the City of Vienna were represented in the workshop in mid-March at both administrative and political level. The clear commitment to a serious participation in the proposed measures was made. I repeat, we have to go back to an objective debate on the subject. On the question 27: Key measures are the establishment of management plans and operational world heritage management in the Austrian World Heritage Site, a restructuring of cooperation with Icomos Austria, Icomos International and the World Heritage Center. Question 30: In the interests of preserving the historical centre of Vienna, attention should not be paid to past failures, but to future developments. I therefore take very active action and, as described, I will also take measures to ensure that the World Heritage Centre is preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14190	We are now going into the debate. I should like to draw attention to the fact that according to the Rules of Procedure the speaking time should not be longer than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Noll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14219	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Thank you for the answer. It harmonizes content with our views on this issue. I welcome the prospect of commitment and will therefore not consume my 10 minutes for the benefit of the general public here in the house. I'll just say two things if you allow. My thirty-year experience as a lawyer is a bit contrary to what you have set in store for. The description of the legal path does not mean that one no longer speaks, but that one speaks to one another under other conditions. If you take from the outset the description of the legal path, i.e. the complaint to the VfGH, as Ultima Ratio, You have the opportunity to exert pressure to really talk seriously. This is probably easier if the thing is already pending – you can withdraw everything. The second is a general suspicion – the time is pressing, we have to find a solution by June –: That's what we've heard from Minister Drozda over and over again, we're talking, we're talking, we're talking, we're talking, we're talking, we're talking. One way not only to leave it at the time of speaking, but also to bring into the discussion what you have said to us today, as an effective argument, would be that you, for example, the announcement that you were actually bringing the appeal to the Constitutional Court would also be so ventilating that there are certain ladies and gentlemen who believe it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14249	Mr Gerstl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14271	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Noll, the requirement is that I do not speak much longer now than you do. I am trying to understand that Mr Zinggl has said that he is almost sorry that he has brought in these essentials today, as we agree in the analysis. Austria has many cultural world heritage sites and, I believe, we are all in favour of maintaining our cultural heritage in Austria. I don't think there's anyone who doesn't want to. There is only one who obviously does not want this, and that is the Vienna city government, that is red-green. There is on the one hand a Heritage Alert from 2015, which affected Steinhof, where a cultural heritage of Otto Wagner, whose 100. The day of death we commit this year is in danger, and on the other hand there is the letter of Unesco from July of last year concerning the hay market and the danger that the city center of Vienna no longer corresponds to the World Heritage Site. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we should not have to accept ourselves. It would be a matter of course if the city of Vienna were to fulfil its task. I therefore do not think it good in the sense of the rule of law that, as Mr Noll has said, one threatens to bring an action immediately if we have a rule of law to which one should actually rely. If there is a competence of the municipality of Vienna, it must also comply with it. Where do we come from when we expect people to stick to the rule of law, but a red-green city government does not? It can't be! There is no need for any discussion here! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Today, they have put the rule of law at risk several times in the debate on police powers and warned that the rule of law would not be in order. [[towards SPÖ]] And what do you do with Red Green in Vienna? – You do exactly the opposite! They take people the hope that the city center can continue to be the world's cultural heritage. In Austria, there are many other sites that deserve it the same way, but there are other governments that also care about it – that is the difference. No one's talking about Hallstatt, no one's talking about the Wachau, no one's talking about the Semmeringbahn. There it is natural that the World Heritage Site will be preserved, but at Vienna we need to talk about it. I guess that's only possible with this city government. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The fact that we are even talking about it at the federal level now depends on the fact that we have government members at the federal level for the first time, that the opinions of the city of Vienna do not waver. – Until recently, it was so common: When a request from Unesco, as we see with the World Heritage Site in Vienna, was made whether it was being observed or not, the Minister responsible at the Federal Chancellor's Office obtained a statement from the city of Vienna and forwarded this statement one to one in Paris to the Unesco headquarters. What's today? – Today, there are for the first time two members of the government, the Vice Chancellor and Mr Blümel, who say: We'll take a look at this first. We look at what we can do to secure this world heritage. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these two ministers simply don't send a letter, they don't play mailboxes, they take the matter. They're trying to save what's to save. What Red-Green promises the investor has already made, we will probably only experience in the future. What legal claims may arise from this, we will still see. And then it might be about the damage of the city of Vienna, if we are aware of the world's cultural heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore support Federal Minister Blümel in his activity to secure the World Heritage Site for Austria and in particular for Vienna, for the inner city, then Austria and especially Vienna can only go well! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr Zinggl, you have taken a right step when you left the Green Party because you no longer felt represented by Vassilakou on the issue of land dedication to the cultural heritage of Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zinggl.]] [[Abg. Scherak: Now it’s possible to enter a coalition!]] Now you can support us in your own fight against the red-green city government, then you are on the right path.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14341	Mr Drozda is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14363	Mr President. Federal Minister! - No, it won't be hard. [[Call the FPÖ:It's gonna be hard now!]] To be honest, I would have liked to be brief if Mr Gerstl would not have lured me out of the reserve again and brought me to the idea of coming to this press conference of the two members of the government. I have to say that is basically a classical case of supposed dynamics, of supposed activity. By going here and standing up and saying that we are now protecting and safeguarding the cultural heritage, and then saying to the specific journalist questions, we are discussing this and we are looking at it and we are now calling summits, nothing is protected and nothing is yet secured. In the end, it is the prelude of concrete activity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] I am also reluctant to blame myself for not having done this thing seriously, since that is not true. Furthermore, to Mr Zinggl's address: We are discussing the state of surveillance and security packages today and we have been discussing all-elemential issues. Why this issue is so urgent today, let me put it there. You don't mind seeing that urgency. I personally do not see them on a day when it is about data protection, monitoring and so on. [[Abg. New builder: Isn't that right for you? This is the typical driving experience in Vienna!]] But it doesn't matter, you'll certainly come to terms. Nevertheless, I would like to take this discussion, at every day and night, of course also on the fourth plenary day in a row, and also discuss my attitude on this issue, which you now consider absolutely urgent. If you explain your attitude, you have to say what the starting point is and where you stand. We stand there that we represent a culture country that is gladly conjured in all the speeches. Vienna is one of the most beautiful cities in the world in questions of the way of life, art, culture, architecture. That is why every comparison with Aleppo and with cities in Syria is forbidden. I would really ask for this precision in connection with this discussion. We know about the meaning of the federal museums. We know the meaning of the theatre, the Philharmonic, the Symphonyist, all the traditional cultural institutions in our country. We know about the richness of the cultural heritage. What we know much less about is the importance of young artists and the importance of a creative scene in the field of art and culture away from the world heritage sites. I must say that I would very much like to look forward and look into the future in the art and cultural debate and less at the look into the past, which has so intensively influenced the last three days. Of course, there is always a balance between preserving and modernizing the monument. I do not believe that there is a direct danger that we will have to proclaim the loss of the cultural nation. I can also give the soothing indication that the Vienna coffee house culture is still part of the intangible cultural heritage, as well as the estate of Arnold Schönberg. No question, in the case of monument protection, every case must be carefully examined. I also hold it with Odo Marquard: no future without origin. That is why I believe, however, that we must have a discussion about the city's quality development, especially in the light of the fact that Vienna continues to grow around the dimension of a small town year after year. On this issue of the growth of the city, the Canadianto look, as I suppose, will not give us any information, and the discussion about the Canaletto look will not bring us forward decisively either. I believe that there will be serious discussions and a look at the facts. It would take the framework to present here the chronology of events, but I would like to remind you of four things: First: This discussion has been held for years, and the negotiation process has been completed in the form of a binding plan of land use and construction plan for many years. Secondly, It has been successfully tried to find a balance between the interests of private investment and public interest. This was also recorded in a city-building contract. In any case, I have a different understanding of the development of a metropolis and I also see in the concrete project the public benefit for ice rinks, concert hall and public space. Thirdly, Furthermore, we all know that in the course of the multi-annual discussion, an international architectural competition took place, in which the who’s who participated in the international architecture. This competition has been won by the renowned architect Weinfeld with an outstanding design. Fourth: ==References== In May 2017, there was a unanimous decision of the Vienna Municipal Council – and I quote from it – that “in the inner city [...] no additional buildings and no additions of existing high houses are planned and ordered”. I am therefore in favour of taking myself seriously, I am in favour of taking competition seriously, and I am in favour of policy taking itself seriously and making agreements, agreements concluded and decisions taken unanimously. Of course, you can in principle scandalize everything and problem it all. Why this is happening now does not open up to me, especially since there is also a discussion process. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to a statement by someone who has a first-class reputation in the field of architecture and who has worked in the field for decades and decades, namely the long-standing head of the Vienna Architecture Centre Dietmar Steiner. He says: “And I am grateful to Isay Weinfeld for his design, which develops the typology and modernity of this place aesthetically and urbanally and perfectly further.” I think it is exactly that way, and I do not add anything from my side.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14417	Mr Rosenkranz has been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14439	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! This question, ladies and gentlemen of the Pilz list, is urgent – like many others. They have also made a urgent request to the climate – the climate is also urgent, as is culture. A National Council meeting also offers the opportunity to show so much intellectual flexibility that one comes from one important topic to another important topic. I am already excited whether there will be sometime on the agenda things about which one says that this is not or less important or urgent. That is the life of parliamentarianism, the Rules of Procedure, the possibility of individual mandates! How many times do we have the discussion when asked why a Court of Auditors report should be dealt with so late when it is said that it needs to be discussed earlier? Then why should the one who is in the front be rowed back? – Importances, non-essentials, that's it! Now we are on the question: The urgency is clear to me, because the High House, as a control body, must also have the right to discuss what the Federal Minister has shown when answering the questions here, namely that there is a discussion process that hopefully there is a sustainable and hopefully successful discussion process among those concerned. As far as Mr Noll's remarks on the legal path are concerned, I shall come a little later. Mr Gerstl asked: Why do you just talk about Vienna and not about the Wachau or the Semmering and so on? – Well, it's not that way! I would like to extend the problem of world heritage and its preservation to all of Austria. What is happening to me, in my hometown of Krems at present, is that, as the Lower Austrian Land Gallery in the Old Town ensemble, we are shattering a shattered – the population calls it – flaktower – and it is indeed so! – get, is also worth mentioning. Now he still looks like concrete, but he's supposed to be dressed later with metal plates, so that the small climate in the sun is good. There was only a little different framework conditions, that you were “overrun” there – under quotation marks. – No, World Cultural Heritage is a complicated thing in Austria because of the legal situation anyway. We live in this area of tension, and Mr Drozda, during his term of office in the Committee, has always pointed out: [[Abg. Cashier: Out of service!]] I know I am the Federal Minister, as the Republic of Germany, we are responsible for the implementation of the international agreement, but spatial planning, land ordination, construction regulations, that is all the country matter. – In this field of tension, we are, and it would now be too short to say: To play through all the problems that there may be, let's just look at what's coming out of the hay market. - No! I believe that this field of tension, which has been shown by this example, deserves much greater focus as regards the future of the protection of the world's cultural heritage, the protection of monuments, and later on the question of the preservation of the world's cultural heritage within the framework of building regulations and land-based ordinations and similar. There is even more to us than this – under the quotation mark – “small”, but also known Ding Heumarkt. Yes, city development must not be anything where this famous cheese bell is so to speak, but, Mr Drozda, it would be free for all investors to leave the canaletto look alone, completely and simply and grippingly, and to tell these investors – because now the sea town is being built and is being said – new small cities are added: [[Abg. Drozda: There is no such thing as that, you know!]] On this flat meadow, the best star architects in the world can be extravagant and built great things there, but still leave this area in peace. They should not seek the courage of the gap, but fill the gap in quality, where there is nothing else that may be damaged. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Some do not want to do that, however, because the investment in the sea town is not paying off for those who are then to live there. Now I come to the real problem with particular regard to the hay market: It is not a problem of the general situation in the level building of the Constitution, federalism, the different legislative powers between federal legislation, state legislation, decisions of municipal councils – all of this exists, as we also have a construction site in other things –; in reality, there is a red-green city government in Vienna. That's the real problem. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Otherwise, it would not be possible to do so in such a way that, under very strange circumstances, one who has nothing to do with red and green ideology, namely this much-poored big capital, which one would actually have to put quite insanely under the knead, can switch it that way. These are the super-rich ones you always say are the supporters of Mr. Kurz. So, all of a sudden, red-green? I think that there is already a reason why Mr Zinggl, who has always been a defender of maintaining this world heritage status, acts in this way regarding his home party, the Greens. It is a scandalous procedure when a party polls its members and says, despite a negative decision of the members: That's all we need! – There must be something else behind the fact that the choir masters, Vassilakous, heads and as they are all called fall into a project of an investor, where you hear the story then: Yes, those who can afford apartments in there, these are only the oligarchs from Russia, against which one goes anyway with Boykott. All of this does not fit into the city administration, except in this city of Vienna with Red-Green, there are other laws that we find in no textbook for constitutional law or elsewhere. Otherwise, it can't be explained. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! Vice Chancellor Strache and with him the Freedom Party – not only at the federal level, but of course also the Vienna FPÖ with Johann Gudenus and Ursula Stenzel – say that this project must be prevented. There's this federal government too. We welcome the fact that there is a process in which one appeals first to reason. Now on the question of when this complaint is filed: The Minister has spoken of Ultima Ratio, Mr Noll has said that they should be brought in as a threat scenario. – I think both options have something for themselves. What's important is: This complaint must not be made from jux and tollery, only so that it has the title of complaint, but there is really a field of tension, and if you go the way to a court, you should actually be sure to a certain degree or there should be a high probability of going through with it. That was also the question of the Social Democrats regarding the BAT study committee whether they are going and being rejected with their desire to go to the Constitutional Court; it is not preferable to do so. There are good reasons why such a complaint is also a matter of content. It has also been developed to some extent; I know drafts of it. Mr Noll, perhaps be With your expertise as an expert in public law, we are still at our side, so that the victory of the Ultima Ratio will actually succeed. Of course, we will observe this and we will be very happy to use it for ourselves, because it takes a effort to put this red-green Vienna into the barriers in this project, and there is every help I need.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14525	Mr Michael Bernhard is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14549	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! You may not have noticed it yet, but on the one hand there was now a long debate with colleagues Zinggl and his, as I believe, honest concern about the world heritage of the inner city in Vienna within the urgent question, after which there was quite a lot: Red-Green in Vienna is terrible!, and on the other hand there was a defense speech. Which seems to have not been noticed: So far, the people of the city have not yet happened! No one has talked about citizens and how they can be properly integrated. [[Call the FPÖ:But now!]] Especially the topic of hay market is one that would be excellent for this. The conflict we have as the Republic, both in the spatial order and in the urban development, is one that comes from the understanding of the 20th century. ==References== We want, and I think this is very correct, to consider also what new formats there can be in society, that we can jointly develop public space, that together we can develop our cities and together our countries differently. The NEOS have proposed in Vienna – and this has been what I have to say, unfortunately, in the case of the red-green city government, of course, trying to stop it, or was successful with it – to use citizens' councils. What would such a Council of Citizens be like? – If people living in the immediate environment or at a greater distance, for example, when it comes to sight axes, who are affected, are involved representatively. People of the city, chosen by age, by origin, by sex, by education, by decision, are invited and can be dealt with very specifically for one to two days with a topic, according to which they can articulate their views, their advice to politics and their advice to the administration. [[Abg. Rosary: And at the same time abolish the jury jurisdiction!]] Nothing like that happened in Vienna. What is also very exciting is that the Heumarkt – and there you have to be very clear – and other major construction projects of the city of Vienna in the inner city and in all other areas of the city in the award, in the dedication and in all parts of the agreement are completely opaque. This transparency is a major problem in the Republic, because it is not limited to the city of Vienna. Wherever the ÖVP represents the majority, a similar transparency can be found. It is a problem that we in all nine federal states have far too little control that, while the federal states are drawing from the fullness of the country, they are able to throw away the tax money, but they are indignant with any form of control and participation – both by the federal government, as we have just discussed, as well as by the citizens. Therefore, from my point of view, the hay market is actually not a causal problem – of course, it is now very urgent because of the status as an unesco world heritage – but in reality it is only a symptom of misguided federalism, it is a symptom of a party rule and it is a symptom of the fact that people, citizens and citizens from our country no longer speak. That is what it is all about, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14596	Mr Zinggl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14618	Just a few little things to correct. – First of all, to the SPÖ: So I have to say that this paternalist access, which we have just heard from the ÖVP and now from the SPÖ, we do not know when anyone who can bring in any urgent ones, is really a snorkel to me if I can say it so clearly. [[Abg. Drozda:... the snorkel is, but no one said that!]] As a small group, we can determine very well, and we know what is needed, and that is what is needed. [[Abg. Drozda: That's today...!]] It is really highest railway to talk about this in Parliament before the train leaves. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Maybe the train already left. It may be that this is unpleasant to you, Mr. former Federal Minister, but this is really a wound job that you cannot simply ignore. And if you come with the old arguments – Aleppo, Sanaa and crisis and war zones cannot be put in a series with the errors in Austria – then I can only say: This is precisely the point, because the Unesco must negotiate it at the same time. In some cases, they have to consider how they can save what is still to be saved, and in other cases, in the case of the Austrian case, in the case of self-destructive cases, one actually does not know what to do. The only thing you can do is you can say: Not fulfilling the Treaty, we no longer need to, let us leave! and that is not necessarily what I expect from a party that has a cultural understanding, as you have just said. To Dietmar Steiner: This is the only one on a long, long list of intellectuals, of monument protectors, of artists, of architects, who once said so, he also signed against the project. [[Abg. Rosary: Right! Right! What he has already signed in Lower Austria and in Krems! They're ruins!]] - That's it. And now there's something else. In the council, it's crumbling! In your group and also in the Greens there are already people who realize that this was a mistake, and now they can take the step back. [[towards SPÖ]] Talk to colleagues in the Vienna Council before it's too late! One is already threatening – and now I am speaking to you, Minister Blümel – that the ÖVP is driving the SPÖ and the Greens ahead. It may be that the World Heritage Site does not fall now, then we have the discussion another year and another year, in which the Red Green does not object, and another year in which the Minister says: We'll try and we'll talk to them, but it's all too late anyway. Mr Minister, if you want to save this, before it's too late, you have to take these steps! You can't say on the one hand, it's already too late for contentious discussions!, and then say: Now we're going to make an objective discussion and use all the options, Ultima Ratio are then the legal steps. - No! Create You're justifiable! This is very important in this situation, especially when you say that an expert says so and the other experts may say something else. I can't, but You can do that! [[Abg. Rosary: The Federal Government!]] They can entrust and instruct the Constitutional Court to clarify this and to make decisions, also in the interest of other speculators, investors or whatever their name is, so that they know what is going on and what is not going on. That must have been clarified once! In the meantime, you probably also know, at the latest because of our parliamentary request, that there are other legal possibilities. Article 16 of the Federal Constitutional Act: Both paragraphs 4 and 5 provide you with the opportunity to submit instructions, and give you the opportunity to submit legislation to Parliament if a country does not comply with international treaties, state agreements. That is enough for an opinion of the parliamentary legal, legislative and scientific service or of the constitutional service, and then you could do it. In my opinion, if you only threaten the last two things, you should take the step to the Constitutional Court immediately, otherwise you will not be credible in my opinion. How long do you want to wait? Until it's too late? – If you did, that would also be the Unesco. The Unesco would see something happening, there are a lot of people who don't want it. Anything else, I think, goes in the direction: The red-green government in Vienna is to blame. – Then you lose world heritage, then it is even more to blame; then you will be allowed to build the elections and your colleagues in the construction speculation industries. – Then you were all right, everything was successful, only one was lost, namely the historic centre of Vienna as a cultural heritage. I want to avoid that. That's why I'm doing the urgent, and I don't really care about the state of party politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14706	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I should like to welcome the students of the School of Kalksburg quite cordially before we enter the vote. [[General condolences.]] [[16:00:09]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14739	I will resume the negotiations on the agenda. We now come to a number of votes. The necessary presence of Members of the Constitution is fulfilled for all points. First of all, we are voting on points 8 to 11, which I make separately with each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Draft Criminal Procedure Change Act 2018 including title and receipt in 92 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever again gives the consent, I ask for a sign in this regard. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Draft federal law amending the Federal Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, the Criminal Code and the Federal Law on Cooperation in Financial Criminals with the Member States of the European Union, including title and receipt in 66 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Third reading: Also? – The draft was adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Draft Federal Act amending the Safety Police Act, the Road Traffic Regulations and the Telecommunications Act in 15 of the Supplements. Mr Herbert, Mr Amon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled a total amendment. I shall therefore immediately vote on this draft law as amended by the amendments as a whole. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this draft law, including the title and receipt in 15 of the supplements, as amended by the amendment tabled by Mrs Herbert, Mr Amon, Mr President, to give an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I shall come to the third reading immediately. Consent? – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Abg. Jarolim holds a red poster with the inscription “Kickl Free Zone” and a picture of Federal Minister Kickl. - Abg. Wittmann presents a white poster with the title “Private Life Without Kickl!”]] [[Abg. Laimer holds a white poster with the inscription “No to the Trojan” in the height, on which a ban sign is pictured with Trojan horse. - Abg. Margreiter holds a white poster with the title “Private Life Without Kickl!” in height.]] We are now voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee Report 88 of the Supplements on 'Use of the cameras provided for in Section Control by the Security Authorities'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 11) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: The Committee's request to take note of its report 89 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority. Accepted. [[Abg. Jarolim: (in the picture of Federal Minister Kickl on the said poster) There's something attached, Mr President!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[16:03:34]] Vote on agenda items 1 to 5
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14823	We shall come to the vote on Agenda items 1 to 5, which I shall make separately on each of the Committee's requests. [[MEPs Laimer and Margreiter keep the said posters up to date.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Please remove the posters!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – I ask you to keep your peace and quiet! We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft Data Protection Act 2018 in 97 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment by Members Gerstl, Stefan, colleagues. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Scherak. I am therefore going to vote first on the parts of the proposed amendment and on the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Gerstl, Mr Stefan, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning the amendment to the table of contents. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the approval to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 73 to 100, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Members Gerstl, Stefan, colleagues. Whoever gives the consent, I ask him to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Gerstl, Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning Articles 101 to 128. I ask those Members of the House who agree to give a positive signal. - That's the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Members Gerstl, Stefan, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. I shall come to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree at third reading to a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. This was accepted at the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft Data Protection Deregulation Act 2018 in 98 of the Supplements. The following additional or amendments have been tabled: Amendment tabled by Mr Himmelbauer, Mr Herbert, Mrs Scherak, Mr Wittmann, Mr Noll, Mr Colleagues, and Mr Wittmann, Mr Noll, Mr Scherak. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Wittmann and by Mr Noll. Since both the present draft law and the above-mentioned supplementary or amendment amendments contain constitutional provisions, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. – This has already been done. First of all, I will put to the vote the parts concerned by these supplementary or amending proposals, taking into account the request for separate vote and finally vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The Members of Parliament, Herbert, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning the amendment to the title, the withdrawal of the table of contents, the withdrawal of Article 1 and the resulting amendments to Article 2 and amendments relating to Art. 2 Z 1 and 2. Whoever is here for, I ask him for a sign by hand to have a sign of consent. [[Abg. Arbitrators: By hand?]] - That's the majority. Accepted. Mr Wittmann, Dr Noll, colleagues have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 2 Z 3. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now come to the amendment tabled by Members Himmelbauer, Herbert, colleagues on the withdrawal of the species. 2 Z 3. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Himmelbauer, Mr Herbert, colleagues on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 2 Z 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Committee's report and amendments to the following points. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall be voting separately on the additional amendment tabled by Mr Himmelbauer, Mr Herbert, and others on paragraph 9 of the new paragraph 7. Consent? – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Wittmann, Mr Noll, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment concerning the withdrawal of the species. 2 Z 8. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Himmelbauer, Mr Herbert, Mr De Keersmaeker, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 2 Z 8. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it to be a sign of confirmation. – That's the majority. Accepted. Mr Wittmann, Mr Noll, Mr Scherak, Mr President, have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of paragraph 14a into Article 2. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. The Members of Parliament, Herbert, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of new paragraphs 15 and 16. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. Members of Parliament Wittmann, Noll, colleagues have an amendment concerning the withdrawal of § 30 para. 5 in Art. 2 Z 15 ingested. Who's up for it? – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Members Himmelbauer, Herbert, colleagues on § 30 para. 5 in the new paragraph 17. Consent? - That's the majority. Accepted. [[Vice Chancellor Strache: That's what's called moving parliament!]] – Yes, the exercises do well when you sit so long. I can't get up. [[General hustle and bustle.]] Mr Wittmann, Mr Noll, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of paragraph 18a. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Mr Himmelbauer, Mr Herbert, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 2 Z 25, 30, 31, 33 and 34 which deal with the absence of constitutional provisions of the draft law and the resulting amendments to the terms of reference. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. I ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – The draft law has been adopted at third reading as well. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft Federal Act amending the Data Protection Act, including title and receipt in 99 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. - That's what happened. I now ask the ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by the majority. I clearly note that the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes is also given. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is again the required two-thirds majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law which amends the Federal Constitutional Act, the Federal Administrative Law, the Administrative Court Act and the Constitutional Court Act, including title and entry into 100 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains an amendment to the Federal Constitutional Act, I may, in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall determine the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. - This one is given. I now ask the ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft law to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give them the approval at third reading, to give a sign. - That's what happened. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft Data Protection Adjustment Act 2018 – Science and research together with title and entrance to 68 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. – This is also the majority. That is why this draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Niss, Mr Povysil, Mr Povysil and others on ‘ELGA data protection provisions/research organisation law’. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 10) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kucher, colleagues and colleagues on ‘corrections of the Data Protection Adjustment Act – Science and Research’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[16:14:47]] Agenda item 6 vote
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14950	We are now moving to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft law in 48 of the supplements. Mr Schreak, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional request. I shall therefore first vote on the supplementary proposal mentioned and then on the draft law. Since the present supplementary request contains a constitutional provision, I first note that within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall determine the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. - That's what happened. The Members of Parliament have tabled an additional request for Article 1 and Article 2. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority. The two-thirds majority was therefore not reached either. The additional request is therefore rejected. Finally, I come to the vote on this draft law and its title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. – The majority again in third reading, so the draft law was adopted at third reading. [[Abg. Wöger: Wonderful!]] I am particularly grateful to Parliament's Directorate. [[General condolences.]] You see that it was necessary to carry out this postponement, so that we can do very, very correctly and for everyone very clearly and transparently, just as the vote is going on. Report by the Sports Committee on the motion for a resolution by Mr Petra Steger, Mr Mag. Stefan Schnöll, colleagues on the submission of a sports report from the Federal Minister responsible to the National Council (95 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15000	We shall now proceed to item 12 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Steger is speaking. I can give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15027	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, of course, I would like to give our President a fair word and say that it is quite good to do so occasionally. This has at least made sure that we are now all fit for the last items of the agenda, which are still coming today. Four long plenary sessions tend to end slowly, and just before the end there is another highlight on the agenda; a highlight because it is – at least for me – a small premiere. For the first time in my almost five years as a sports speaker, a sports proposal is not only accepted in plenary, but is also expected to be adopted unanimously, as we have seen in the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point I would also like to thank all the political groups very much for having this agreement. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Some spectators or some of the new Members may now wonder a bit: Why the first time? – Quite simply, in the last four years, there has been a principle in the Sports Committee: the principle of drawerization. It was postponed and postponed. The discussion was apparently not desirable. I have often criticised this process, because it was certainly not an upkeep of parliamentarianism, and above all it was not an expression of self-confidence and pride at the sports policy of the past. Years. With today's day and with today's request, thanks finally change. What is the point of this motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schnöll and me? It concerns a regular sports report to Parliament, which should include, among other things, the new sport strategy. This is a multi-annual framework which will cover all areas of sport promotion, from school to performance sports, and also all levels of sports administration, from the municipality to the federal government. It is precisely this report that reflects this strategy. For example, it also reflects strategic objectives, support priorities and their impact orientation. The sports report is also intended to show the developments in sport, such as the development in the field of performance and competition, the pre-allocation of athletes to high-performance sports, the establishment and operation of professional associations, the training of trainers, club sports, wide-ranging and health sports and, of course, the sports venue infrastructure. We also want to invest more in the future, and we also want to implement a sports venue database and also a sports venue master plan in the future. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This sports report should, of course, include women's sport in Austria. Speaking of women's sport, Mr. Krist: I came across your homepage – linz-land.spooe.at – where you accused me of having said the untruth because I dared to criticize SPÖ for its past sports policy in the area of women, the federal sport promotion in principle. For example, you have listed the 100% sport project and some national funding in women's sports. Dear Mr Christ! If you blame me for the untruth and bad search, please answer me a question: How much of the federal sport promotion has flown into women's sport? How many criteria have there been in the area of federal sports promotion, which have made sure that women actually have more financial resources at their disposal? . Dear Mr Christ, I can answer this: You don't know, and you can't say it either. Do you know why I know that? – Because I asked exactly the same question to your former Federal Minister Doskozil six months ago, and he answered me in the committee that there were no surveys on it. You do not know how much money actually comes to our athletes in this country – and that is your missing sports policy in the area of women! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The report should also, of course, include many other points, such as social integration, inclusion. The report should include, for example, sports science, medicine, technology as well as the fight against doping and much more, and of course it should also provide an overview of the organisations in sports, for example about Bundes-Sport GmbH, the ÖOC, also the section Sport is to be included. So summarized: a comprehensive report that will finally provide full information and transparency in the field of sport. Now some will ask themselves: Why hasn't there been that in the past? You might actually think it should be a matter of course. – Ladies and gentlemen, it was not. 2012 – six years ago – there was the last report on sport promotion in this country, a report that was not sufficient in content, and unfortunately it has not been prepared regularly. At the beginning of 2014, I applied for the first time that there was a report the new Federal Sports Promotion Act 2012, which entered into force in 2013. At that time, a new disbursement agency was created with the Federal Sport Fund. To this day, there was no report. In the meantime, there is even a new Federal Sports Promotion Act 2017; the BSFF has not been available for a long time, and there is a new Bundes-Sport GmbH with a new payout site – but there is still no report. This will be changed with today's proposal, and I can only say that it is very time-consuming. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This will also implement the first measure – from many others that will come – from the black and blue government programme. At this point I would also like to thank both the ÖVP-College Haubner, with which there have been very good and constructive government negotiations, in which we have already agreed on this sports report, and of course also the ÖVP-College Schnöll, which has given rise to this report and thus has also made the first request possible. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say that this proposal – and this is particularly important to me – strengthens parliamentarianism in several ways: Firstly, we are now once again allowing a debate on sport in this Parliament for the second time in this plenary week, and this report will also be discussed in Parliament in the future in order to be able to provide a bigger stage for sport in Parliament. Apart from the stage that sport gets, Parliament's control rights, the Members' rights will also be strengthened by being fully informed about the sport in Austria in the future. This, ladies and gentlemen, is living parliamentarianism, and I am pleased that we will decide unanimously on the first change in the field of sport, and hope that many more will follow.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15133	Mr Krist is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15155	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister of Sports! Mrs. Steger! Thank you, I'm glad you looked by on my homepage – that's nice, I like that. In the discourse we are conducting – which I like to conduct, and I think we are always halfway on the road – please do not mention that I said the untruth – otherwise I have to invite everyone to look at my homepage now – that I would have blamed you for the untruth! I just wrote – and this can be read by everyone – that you criticized the SPÖ ministers because they had done too little for women's sports, and I still wrote that this is badly researched. – I don’t think that’s something really dramatic right now, and you can say that, and I’d ask that we leave it there, too, because I don’t think we need it in sports, just that we somehow set up mutual friendships. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the sports report itself: Yeah, I like to admit, I never understood why the sports report hasn't been published in four years. We have often called him in, but you do not always get through with your own minister. [[Abg. Rosary: We already!]] - I'm so sorry. I believe that this report is important because, on the one hand, it is constantly saying that sport is not valued enough, there is too little recognition for sportsmen and for volunteers, but on the other hand I believe that many people in Austria do not know what the 60 recognized sports organisations, the five roof organisations with special tasks every day in Austria, do – the volunteers, the officials and the athletes anyway. That is why I think it is good for the Minister to issue this report. I believe that this will be a monster work, given what Mrs Steger has included in this report. I wish you good luck. I definitely think it's a good thing we're doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15197	The next item is the speech by Mr Schnoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15219	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! I would like to thank you for this. I think it is right for us to bring this sports report to Parliament, because I believe that sport is also of great importance in the government. Everyone who reads the government program immediately recognizes it. Not least is the fact that sport is located directly with Mr. Vice-Chancellor. I think that's a good sign. Perhaps just a short addition to what Mrs Steger said: Why do we need this report? The last report was presented over ten years ago. In between, 2012, there was once a sports promotion report, but I think we really need a comprehensive report to have a proper basis for discussion in this Parliament. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] There are three goals that we pursue with this: One is, of course, a statement of the subsidies and subsidies that exist in sport. I believe that this is urgently necessary so that we, together with the Court of Auditors, also support it and ensure that every euro really comes to the athletes in sport and does not simmer into any structures. The second point is the insight into the structures of sports in general. These have become very complex. I believe it is also important for the citizens that they have an overview of what is happening here, not least of course – as Mr Kristi mentioned, I would like to thank him – as far as the volunteers are concerned. We have 570,000 volunteering hours of approximately 2.2 million. I think this is great and deserves our recognition, including in this sports report. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The third goal is the documentation of sports in society as a whole. The sport is a cross-sectional matter, and as such it must also be understood. One might think of the relationship between sport and health, but I would also like to mention the field of sport and the economy: Sport contributes 4.1 percent to GDP – this is really unique, and we have a unique position in Europe – which is almost twice as much as in the EU section. Not least is our tourism involved, because we feel 58 percent of the nights behind it. They can be sport-relevant. I think that's a great number. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I too, of course, am pleased that this request, which Mrs Steger and I have initiated, has been unanimously adopted in committee. I am of course also pleased if he finds broad approval in the plenary. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15282	Mrs Bißmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15300	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House and at home! Estimated Minister of State! A regular sports report to Parliament is a good thing. We have had such a one already in 1980 to 2007, and a re-introduction is to be welcomed. We also voted in favour of this report. However, this request was not what moved me at the last meeting of the Sports Committee, at which Minister Strache was also present. Rather, it was the end of a successful, important and award-winning project: Kicking without boundaries. “When I play football, I feel strong,” says young Frahnaz from Afghanistan. She is a player at the team Birkenwiese in Vienna. Federal Minister! The Sport Initiative Kicking without Borders costs no more than the sum of 12 000 euros per year. With this for you, Mr Minister, the initiative strengthens 120 young people to become self-confidenced, democratic, integrated and committed citizens of Austria, who, by means of sport, learn better, find easy work and will later pay more taxes and will pay longer into the system. [[Abg. Martin Graf: They can go to any club!]] [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] They justify the removal by the fact that integration projects like this are only initiated by your ministry, then they are left to themselves or the Ministry of Integration must take over them. Yes, the Ministry of Integration is responsible for integration. Yes, the Sports Ministry is responsible for sports. With your ministry, you are also pursuing the goal of training more top athletes for Austria. Do not consider that integration sports projects such as kicks without borders are just there to discover potential for future top sports. That is why it must be in your mind to support this project from your ministry's resources! With the removal of this project, you not only counter your own goals, but also the voluntary commitment of many citizens with feet. The honoraryness in the sports sector is an important topic for you, Mr. Strache, you keep mentioning it. The voluntary service in the Integration sports is all the more important. Finally, the great and important task of integration is not taken over by your ministry, but by civil society. Your ministry only needs a small basic funding to maintain this project – 12 000 euros. With what right do you fail projects like Kicken without Borders? I am not talking about the legal basis, but about your self-righteousness, with which you are sitting here on your 15 million euros of basket money and detesting the voluntary commitment of many Austrians. [[In the case of the Pilz list, the SPÖ and the Agg. Griss.]] Mr Sport Minister – very briefly, I am at the end, that is the last sentence – I hope that in the course of your exercise as Minister of Sport, you will visit some kind of integration sports tournament and then I hope you will understand that you will not start the Rotstift with young girls like Frahnaz from Afghanistan, because perhaps – now only half a sentence will come, please Contenance! – you will then be responsible for avoiding Austria from a future women’s football tip sportsman. [[towards Federal Minister Strache looking]] [[Deputies Rosenkranz and Kitzmüller: He hears eh!]] [[Abg. Haider: But with every club! Every club's doing this!]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: Every club in Vienna is only about integration! With every club in Vienna!]] [[Cheerfulness to Members of List Pilz and SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15398	Mr Vice-Chancellor has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15419	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you for this proposal today, because it was rightly stated that the last sports report reached this House ten years ago, which is a very, very long time, and that we should simply live more transparency in this area. We should also, above all, be able to find and discuss the successes and developments in a measurable way within the framework of a report that we are presenting, because our claim is, of course, to get better and to be more successful in this area, especially across all political party borders as a sports nation. Even though the moving Parliament has already done a good exercise at least before, it is necessary, as it were, to raise awareness in the population; there we have to put in place and, of course, intensify it. In the context of the sport strategy, which we have discussed several times in recent weeks, we have chosen this approach. I have invited many, many athletes and we will also invite the public to participate in this process. I deliberately say: It is nice to experience that sports policy is obviously being lived across all sides of the party and is a concern to everyone, for that is what it should be. We are dealing here with an area which has an incredible value in social policy and which, unfortunately, has not completely experienced this value in political implementation in recent years. We support the around 15,000 associations of organized sports in Austria with the Zig thousands of volunteers who work in the honorary office with the sports promotions we ensure. And: Sport, Mrs Collaborative – that was very polemic what you did – is generally integration. All that has to do with sports is live integration! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Zig thousands of clubs we promote and ensure their work, and the volunteers who engage there live this integration every day – and you do not pretend to have them! This is daily reality up to the smallest angle of all communities and places! That's exactly what it is all about, and that's why you have to see it much, much wider – and not somehow take out a project as you did. We also have some specific projects, whether the Mamanet is in the park, and this also has to do with integration and sport. Of course, this should always be an additional start – and not the main task of a sports ministry. When it comes to social work, and when it comes to integration work in the real sense – in addition, away from sports – the relevant ministries should do so, too. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We in sport live in integration in all areas, and therefore I do not let what you have done to the best of Poland. And yes, there are tens of thousands of volunteers who have shown an incredible commitment – and who have not deserved it to be so wrong – that they are committed to movement and sports. From wide-ranging sports, we also recognize many, many talents that are available in good time for young people. They are specifically promoted and led towards top-ranking sports, so that today in Austria, top-ranking performances are given to an incredible extent in many, many segments. The new sports report should, of course, also be a valuable reference work for sports-fine people, with which we, I say quite consciously, have measurable criteria and can also document measurablely for the future – that is our claim –: What's gotten better? What have we made possible in addition? We have many ideas that we now want to implement step by step. This is a proof of performance for sports in Austria, and of course it is about many relevant areas of social policy, cross-cutting, which also overlap. We have already heard, the sport has an incredible force in Austria: 17 billion euros of value added, there we are European champions. Other countries in the European Union are unable to keep up with this force, which is behind sport and which naturally brings to the economy something to tourism, but also to the social area, which brings something to integration and, above all, works in the field of prevention when it comes to health. Every euro invested there saves us 5 euros in the health system. That is why it is so important to become more successful and sustainable and to document it. That is why this sports report should also, of course, include an outlook for future projects, including impact assessments for future social policy developments. In this way, the sports report is an appropriate and proper basis so that we can then talk on the basis of the facts, conduct a discourse, evaluate there or there and get even better. That is why it is so important and gratifying that there are wide sports debates here in the Hohe Haus. That's something you unfortunately had to miss in the past. There and there one already had the impression that the sport was treated stepmotherly, and it was not given to him the importance he has in our society. It is my concern to change that, and of course we need the support of all sports-fine people. On the other hand, the sports-fine people also expect us to support them more strongly, up to the top athletes, who simply deserve more appreciation in principle, and whom we also serve as a testimonials, namely the best Sense should be used as a role model for our society, for our children. In this regard, there is rightly criticism that in some associations or associations there may be a functional policy, in which one unfortunately does not resort to the really successful sportsmen and in which one has the impression that there is not a living sports policy there, but perhaps party politics. This should be done there in the future. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I should therefore like to thank you here in the House today for this request. This is a task addressed to the Minister of Sport, and I accept it joyfully and gladly, because that is the right step. I would like to thank all those who have been very positive in the debates of the Committee on Budgets, but also in the previous debates in the Committee. I take every criticism seriously, if it is justified, no question; it is also welcome, but where it is not entitled, I will also make it clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15526	Mr Antoni is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15547	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! I do not support the sports report, which we will support. I would like to draw two areas out of the request, since they are of particular importance. This is point 9, when it comes to "bringing more people to exercise and sport to strengthen health", and it is also the following point 10, which concerns the "provision of sports-specific offers" in order not to bring so active people closer to the sport. – I think that’s exactly where the big challenge lies, because those people who do performance sports are increasing all day by day and don’t need to be asked to do sports, but all those people who are currently out of the way to get closer to sports will be the big challenge. Unfortunately, in today’s time, we already know the diagnosis of obesity, diabetes, motor conspicuousness and so on. These are all the consequences of a motionless everyday life, and I therefore find this point particularly important. If the sports report helps to improve this, the better. Finally, I would like to mention: Although there has now been no sports report over a longer period of time, I would like to point out that in many other areas, from education to health to tourism, there have always been measures to get people to move and convince people of a healthy way of life, even in the recent past, where there would have been a possibility of non-smoker protection law, but in which the government parties still have different opinions. In conclusion: All those people who have smoked once, but also those who smoke, know about the danger of this addiction, but also know that this addiction inevitably also leads to poverty of movement, because one simply lacks the breath by smoking. If this report now also offers an opportunity, perhaps faster than you recently decided to come to a smoke-free area, we will support it all the more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15584	Mrs Diesner-Wais is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15605	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! Austria is a sports country and of course we strive to continue to do so, because more than half of the Austrians practice sports at least once a week. We have more than 500,000 dedicated volunteers in sports. That is why we are required to make good choices and conditions for sport, and of course we need the necessary basics. That is why I very much welcome the fact that we are taking this proposal together today, so that there will again be a report on the situation in Austria in the future. Sport has a lot of social tasks; if I think only of youth: It is motivating and community-promoting. We all know that in the age of digitization and modern media it is not quite easy to inspire young people for sports; most young people do not move enough, and this also affects their development. Measures and investments are therefore very important, as today's deficit in sport will later cost the health system. Every euro invested in sports saves us 5 euros in the health system. Breeding is very important, and there would be a need to introduce daily gymnastics and the search for talent, simply to motivate the young people to make sports and movement, because it is very important for their later life course that they have a healthy lifestyle. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Much of basic work, motivation, integration is happening in our associations, so I really want to thank all sports clubs for what they do great things. In order to support them well and efficiently, information is really important. Of course, it is also necessary to provide the right sports venue infrastructure for top sports, and ultimately, sport is also an important economic and tourism factor in our country – at billions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The sporting successes of our top athletes and also the sporting big events simply have radiant power and also motivate our youth and all other people to engage in sports. In two days the Wienmarathon takes place here, and this is one of these big events that appeals to both the width and the top sport. I therefore welcome the fact that we now have a regular sports report in Parliament, because we want to make every effort to ensure that Austria remains a sports nation and can achieve success in all areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15663	Mrs Grünberg has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15687	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! “We are responsible for what we do, but also for what we don’t do,” Voltaire said. This applies to so many things in our lives, especially how we deal with ourselves, how much we pay attention to ourselves, our physical, spiritual and emotional well-being, or not. Sports and exercise are very important factors in preventing physical and mental diseases and staying as fit as possible at age – easier said than done. We all probably have our inner pig dog, to which it is necessary to swim, to ride away or to walk away. On the one hand, this requires a portion of personal responsibility, but on the other hand also appropriate framework conditions and offers to keep the population in motion in the truest sense of the word. As already carried out in the budget debate of the past few days, Austria is doing a lot of things, starting with the youngest with fast-acted units of movement in kindergartens and schools, up to club sports or special movement programs for seniors. There is already a lot going on from the healthy community to the professional framework. In my opinion, however, there is no comprehensive overview. A regular sports report to the National Council would ensure this overview, which is why I consider this proposal to be very supportive. In addition to data and facts on the legal basis, on research, on associations, on the promotion landscape and on top-notch sports, my particular concern is that we also focus intensively on how to motivate less active people into sports activities and how to make sports offers inclusive, so that people with disabilities can easily participate in them. I would like to close with a quote from Hippocrates: “If we could give each individual the right amount of food and exercise, we would have found the safest way to health.” I wish everyone a sporting weekend! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15727	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We now come to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 95 of the Supplements on the proposal for a sports report from the Federal Minister responsible to the National Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 12) [[16:50:42]] 13. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Christian Kern, colleagues in a federal law amending the Labour Market Policy Finance Act (6/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15776	We're coming to the 13th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate in a moment. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - I can give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15809	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! This SPÖ proposal by Members Kern, Stöger, Muchitsch, Members of Parliament deals with the 50 plus employment group – a subject which we have discussed over and over the last few days in the course of the budget debate. The group 50 plus – you all know – is a group that is particularly difficult on the labour market, especially when it comes to unemployment and appears daily and weekly negative newspaper reports, such as those about the company Roco Modelleisenbahn in Gloggnitz, Lower Austria, or about the porcelain factory Frauenthal in the West Styria. In these regions, where there is no blessing on many jobs, it concerns mostly people 50 plus, which then have to go the way to the employment office. We know that it's 50 plus it's really hard because half of the people over 50 who are looking for work are out of work for more than 12 months. In addition, you too are very much insecure this group. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, it's good that you're still here: You are insecure this group because you delete employment measures because you stop them because you just want to let this group work longer, example age part-time. They insure this group with the whole topic of unemployment benefit New: If the emergency aid gets away, does it not get away, then do they get into the minimum security? These are all the issues that concern this group. They cause a great uncertainty among these people, but I say: These people deserve our support. That is why we are making this request. This application deals with a guarantee of employment for those people who have been on the labour market for 30 or 40 years who have paid contributions that have been service providers and who are to become service providers. Therefore, our request to all parties to this plenary session is to support this request. As SPÖ, we want to give these people more security with this request, that they have a chance to get back into the labour market. Especially in a time of high-economy, especially at a time when there is a shortage of skilled workers, it is important to give these people a perspective. In conclusion: They know that these people have an effort of EUR 17 000 per year due to unemployment support and the administrative burden on the AMS. We want to use this money differently by creating incentives for the economy so that these people get back into a job. It is our goal to invite you to discuss this issue together with us, and perhaps it will also succeed in doing something together. Before you accuse us as SPÖ of communist methods again, two messages on this: They know – and this has also come out quite clearly in the evaluation report – that most of the ÖVP communities use the action 20,000 and have used it, so it is not a communist method. Apart from that, I think it's important that we help these people. In this sense, we invite you to support our request. We will discuss this adequately in the Committee, because you all know people outside, you all know anyone who writes 50, 80,100 applications and has no chance of returning to the work process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15864	Mr Gödl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15885	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! Yes, Beppo Muchich, it is always the same excuse from your side, and I remember that in recent times we have amended this very law, namely the Labour Market Policy Financing Act, namely last on 22. March in this House. – It’s amazing: You as SPÖ did not agree at the time. We have, as I recall, amended the law in such a way that we have reduced unemployment insurance contributions for low incomes, of which 450 000 people in Austria will benefit at an average of 311 euros per year. [[Call at the SPÖ: For the workers!]] [[Abg. Music: It's about the job seekers!]] This is a very important measure, including for the labour market. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We decided on the budget yesterday, ladies and gentlemen. In order to clarify one thing, perhaps for all ladies and gentlemen in front of the television screens that could not always listen: We use half of all the revenue we generate as a state in the field of work, social affairs, health and care. We also decided on the AMS budget: 1.4 billion euros total budget for the AMS. The Board of Directors in the AMS also adopted this budget unanimously with the votes of SPÖ trade unionists. [[Deputies Keck and Krist: It's about distribution!]] [[Call to the SPÖ: They say the untruth!]] To make it clear: This year, 2018, for labour market policy, more money is available for every unemployed person than we spent in 2017. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further call at the SPÖ: They deliberately say the untruth!]] Of course, all of us are at the heart of those who don't have a job. Of course, it is our task to support them that they find jobs in the form that they are made so fit that they find a place in the labour market. If you travel through the country today, go to businesses or social institutions, you can notice the following: The Social Medical Care Service in Styria, for example – I am an volunteer there – employs more than 300 people, mostly women, in the field of domestic health care and the entire social care in the communities. Do you know how hard we find new servants despite advertisements in the “Small Newspaper” and in other media? We employ more than 30 percent of people over 50 years of age. It is not the case that there is no job opportunities. We need to make it possible to qualify people with the labour market service in this area, so that you can accept these jobs. What you are planning with your application, that is to say, supported work programmes with which the State gives a guarantee, will not work. You probably remember the Bonmot of an honorable chancellor from the 1970s, who then said – if I can quote him so correctly – that: “And if one asks me how the debt is, then I tell him what I’m saying again and again: that a few billion” – Schilling he meant – “may less sleepless nights be prepared than a few hundred thousand unemployed people would be able to do more to me.” – That’s basically true, just what was the result? – Years later, the employment offices were filled again and the public debt were also there. This is also outstanding for this government, and we stand for it – because in your request, you did not mention it, the explanations also state that you appreciate that about EUR 1 billion more is needed for this State employment guarantee: What we don't want is to make debts, because it's the most unsocial for the next generations. I tried these metaphors yesterday and I want to bring them again today: At the time when the sun shines outside, we need to re-cover the roof. – For this we have acted: To re-cover this roof in the house of Austria and make it stormproof as well. There will again be times when the economy will not run so well. There are times when we are likely to have to spend more temporarily than we take. Now, if the economy is running well, we need to make targeted programmes and, above all, put our budget in order. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We do not agree if you repeatedly demand to overrun our bow without regard to the next generations, namely to spend more than we take. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Therefore, my dear friends from the SPÖ: Get out of the opposition basement and get up to the roof with us to re-cover it to make it stormproof! The roofers stand up, these are chancellors and vice chancellors. Come along, help to make this roof stormproof! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Of course, we will discuss this request intensively, but one thing is clear: What we have already decided, especially this budgetary path, that we are saying that we are not leaving any new debt to the next generations, we will by no means give up.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15994	Mr Muchich. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16018	Mr Gödl has stated here that the AMS Board of Directors has decided on the budget. I'm correcting: The AMS Advisory Board cannot decide on a budget, but only this High House. The AMS Management Advisory Board has the task of distributing these funds, and he has done so. Although it does not belong to the correction, I would nevertheless like to get rid of it: What really distinguishes us, Mr Gödl, is: We're taking care of this group, we're 50 plus those people who don't have a job, not you. That's the difference!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16061	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16082	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! Between 2008 and 2016, the number of jobseekers in generation 50 plus more than doubled and rose to around 100 000 people. This is not a pipifax, which are 100,000 people over 50 who are long-term unemployed. As mentioned above, people of this generation are increasingly unemployed, and the reasons are varied: underqualified, overqualified, too expensive, too inflexible, not healthy enough. But the biggest and most mentioned argument is: too old. Action 20 000 and the employment bonus could have helped if it had been approved. The current Federal Government, however, is more subject to the motto that the supposedly free market will already judge it. [[Abg. Gödl: We spend more money than last year, Mrs Colleague!]] At present, a policy is being pursued that does not in any way focus on people over 50, but does not perform deletions without adequate replacement. These cuts are the victims of many extremely successful projects, and many people are therefore losing much hope for a future job. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] As the Upper Austrian, I would like to give you some examples from my federal state, such as BIS Mobil in the Salzkammergut, about which much has already been reported medially. This project has given older workers, namely 16 people in this concrete project, a valuable job. There has been an urgent need for an addition to public transport for rural areas. A transport model has been introduced which has also been awarded the mobility price last year – and this project will be deleted by the government this year. Another project that has been successful for years from my home region is the Gasthaus Zur Brücke, in which nearly 700 employees have received an education in gastronomy in the past 21 years, have found a job and have also received some stabilisation, qualification and personal strengthening through this project. A project that has been successful for more than 21 years is being deleted by the current government. After 27 successful years in Lower Austria, the Asinoe project has also come to an end. This also affects people who have been unemployed for a long time or who have fewer opportunities in the labour market from the outset, concrete people with disabilities, but also alcohol problems. Alois Huber, one of the co-founders of the Asinoe initiative and project, told me last week how these people are now and what the removal of the project means for these employees. There has been a man who has participated and who, despite alcohol problems, has found a way, thanks to Asinoe's work, to share in social life again, and has also found a sense, a sort of root. What Alois Huber also told me was what this man is doing now: Now he is sitting at home completely drunk, because this very sense has fallen away, this possibility to be able to take foot again, to be valued and to have roots again. This situation of unemployment in old age leads to mental but also physical diseases. Alcoholism is only an effect of it, of course also age poverty. As a list of mushrooms, we have dedicated ourselves to the fight against poverty, starting from child poverty to poverty in the older age. I really have to say, Before you trample around as a black and blue elephant in the porcelain shop and destroy such important projects, go out, talk to these affected persons and see that you will find a solution to give them prospects again! [[He-Rufe at the FPÖ]] It's not too late, we're only at first reading today. I really ask that we take this issue seriously in the committee responsible to ensure that such important projects as those mentioned above are not financially impacted and destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16128	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 6/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[17:07:11]] 14. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Andreas Schieder, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Care Fund Act (11/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16167	This leads us to the 14th place. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Johann Höfinger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16198	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This request, which has already been submitted to the committee in this or similar form, has been postponed. So he shouldn't have been brought in again. That was not necessary, but it is legitimate to bring it in again and discuss it. On the content, it should be noted that it calls for increases in the care fund sector, but that – and this has already been discussed – cannot be financed in the current form. That's nothing new either. You can demand something again and again, that's not difficult. It is also unacceptable in this form that a financial burden which is outside the Stability Pact should be imposed on countries and communities as well. So far, it has been very common for us in the country that the Federal Government, the Länder and the local authorities have composed themselves and have jointly agreed and agreed on a financing path on these delicate issues, and that Parliament has not simply made rules or passed laws, which has made it possible for the others to pay. In addition, there is already a fixed financial plan and path, which already increases from 366 million to 400 million euros. Wür- We would simply agree to this proposal in this form, and we would turn the costs over to the next generations. This would be a further increase in the debt of this country, which we cannot agree to and will therefore simply discuss this request in the form of the Committee again. There are certainly interesting points in it, but in this form that has now been introduced, I think he will not find a majority in the Committee again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16237	The next item is the speech by Mr Alois Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16258	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! In Austria we have a very, very good care system, and it has just experienced a great improvement in recent years. I remind you: It was Federal Minister Hesoun who started to introduce the care allowance, and we started teaching the care fund in 2011. You will remember – I am now deliberately saying this to honourable Members Hoefinger – that we introduced a bank levy in 2011, and with this bank levy we have relieved people, namely those people who take care of older people. We have managed to make 350 million euros available to the people in need of care and have therefore relieved families and those affected. This care fund has been set up to assist the countries, communities and has done excellent work. I would like to thank the local authorities, the mayors, the affected persons, the care homes and also mobile workers for their activities. We need to think about the future now. Funding by the care fund is guaranteed by the old Federal Government until 2022. It's about further developing this care. We have implemented an increase in the care fund by 4.5 percent from 2018 onwards, and it is about facing the new challenges. This is about demographic development, as it is about other requirements for care, we are also concerned that we have a reasonable balance between the federal government and countries in terms of funding, and that is also about supporting the nursing staff accordingly that we activate the work force of the nursing staff. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have therefore proposed improving the care fund in the following direction: First: The teaching should not only take place until the year 2022, but also beyond. This creates perspectives and security, and it is also easy for the Federal Government to make the appropriate decisions in this direction. Secondly, The care fund is to be valorised by 6 percent each year. These are important additional resources that we can easily afford if we want to. I think that the care fund for the people of Austria, after the withdrawal of the care rule – which was again an action that allows us to give people more opportunities – can also do well. I would be pleased, ladies and gentlemen, if we could discuss this in the Committee on Social Affairs. Think about it: It's about the older generation and it's also about the younger generation, because if we don't do anything, the loads only carry the disciples. The quality of care must not depend on which daughter-in-law you get. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Why is this supposed to do the daughter-in-law?]] It must not depend on how the income is, but we need a good, organized care system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16301	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Peter Kolba. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16325	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stöger, the former Social Minister, says that the care system is quite excellent. If he had today looked at the broadcasts of the mobile care services that have come across the APA, he would know that the mobile care services are crying out and saying that they are underfinanced. We're talking about the job of the caregiver who wants to upgrade the caregiver. If this is not only to be beautiful words, but a real appreciation is to take place, then it also means that you have to pay better for these forces. That's not exactly what happens. We have certainly taken a step with the absence of the Pflegregress, but in my opinion, in particular with the relatives, it is an incentive for you to send the grandma home. I think this is a completely wrong incentive. It would therefore be important to invest in family care at the same time – this is still the strongest group, and the support of family members are mobile care services from Caritas, auxiliaries, and Volkshilfe – money if you want to talk about it being a decent and functioning care system. Finally, we have the problem field of 24-hour care; since – you have to say that – you have obviously agreed at the political level in the past that you say: We all close our eyes, and these caregivers – I correct myself – these caregivers, who come to us from Eastern European countries, are self-employed, are supposed to insure themselves, to organize all of this themselves, and those who are to be cared for are those whom they are commissioned and who may even be deprived of benefits if, for example, the caregiver does not discharge the social charges. It's an absurd system. Caring to organize properly costs a lot of money, much more than is available only by increasing the valorization. We will, of course, agree to this valorization, but one thing I say to this Federal Government: You're talking so much about security. I already said that yesterday and I repeat it today: Security is more than equestrians or slippers as they have decided today. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] Security is the prospect for those who work hard in this country that they can grow old in dignity and with good care in this rich country. I therefore believe that you will have to do much more than raise the valorization. We will discuss this in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16377	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 11/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[17:18:06]] 15. Point Report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure pursuant to Article 33(2) of the Rules of Procedure 6 GOG-NR on the request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry pursuant to § 33 GOG-NR on political influence on the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism (BAT Research Committee) (3/US/109 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16413	We're going to the 15th. Agenda item. According to § 33 para. 9 of the Rules of Procedure I expressly propose the establishment of the BAT Examining Committee as amended by the Committee's report 109 of the Supplements by Friday, 20. April 2018, 5:18 a.m. There was no oral reporting. Mr Werner Amon is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16446	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the second run, the Social Democracy has succeeded in submitting a constitutional application together with the other opposition parties. [[Abg. Jarolim: Well, you have something to do with it too!]] You had some support from the Legal and Legislative Service, which, at the time of our first request, was of the opinion that your request is not in conformity with the Constitution. [[Abg. Jarolim: That's not true!]] The present is that, even according to the statements of the legal and legislative service. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that we – above all our clubman August Wöginger – have kept our word. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] We have promised you that if you submit a constitutional request, we will, of course, give your consent to this without delay in so far as we take a joint decision of proof in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] Yesterday, after the end of the National Council meeting, there was an immediate meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, in which we took the decision together, and today we have the Examining Committee on the agenda here in plenary. I think that is decent, that is a proper parliamentary behaviour, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We set up an examination committee with 18 members, which is particularly important to me for ensuring the technical requirements, including the safety of the committee's hearing. We discussed this yesterday at the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, because it is undoubtedly a delicate committee of inquiry which will deal with issues of state security and, ultimately, with the cooperation of different services. Logically, not everything in all the details is intended for the public. That is why these conditions are also very important, ladies and gentlemen. We should also take this seriously. We have agreed and agreed in the decision on the procedural and procedural lawyers. This committee of inquiry is no longer in a position to do so. The Parliamentary Directorate will ask the competent authorities to deliver the relevant files – a wealth of files, because this is already a broad subject of investigation, which the opposition has carried out with us. I hope that all of this can be done logistically in these eight weeks, because for so long the authorities have time to deliver the tricky files. As has been said yesterday at the Committee meeting, we explicitly asked the Parliamentary Directorate to ensure that we had a committee location that provided the necessary conditions. It must also be borne in mind that, if we were to choose a committee location, which is also used permanently by other committees, we would have to create the technical conditions after each meeting of another committee. It's not that easy. I believe, however, that the Parliamentary Directorate is in any case prepared and will achieve this in the appropriate way. The subject matter of investigation is a very broad, many different authorities and ministries will be affected, of course also the prosecutor's office as an extended arm of the Ministry of Justice. We will deal with a number of reservations thematically. I assume that we are doing this in a constructive, reasonable and relevant climate. My group will do this in the good tradition. We will see that political responsibility is clarified accordingly in a series of holdings. – Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16518	Next speaker: Mr Kai Jan Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16553	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is good that the Enlightenment can now begin, because the Enlightenment is also necessary. The accusations or suspicions in the room are serious and large whether an ÖVP-nearly network in the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs has misused the BAT for party policy purposes; that the BAT has not been lawfully treated with data and information, but has been passed on to third parties; that, despite judicial orders, data has not been deleted; the question whether the BAT has been properly followed by the important task of observing right-wing extremism in Austria and can still be followed by changes at the head of the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wheeler]] We have already found here yesterday the fouls, which have been on the way to this Committee of Inquiry from the ÖVP and the FPÖ in the last few weeks. [[Abg. Wheelers: Your inability!]] I can also expressly hold on to what has been done. Even from this point of view – and not only in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure – many thanks to the President – even if he is not here – that he has provided us with the legal and legislative service to discuss this new desire together with the experts. A warm thanks also to August Wöginger that he has made his promise true and we can use this investigation committee very quickly. However, what I heard yesterday and today makes me a little bit bold again, that is, this question, as if we could only negotiate everything in the third basement – with the exclusion of the public – in this committee. That's certainly not how we imagine it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We have always seen in the other committees that it was always possible – even if judicial proceedings are under way, even when it is about delicate information and even if there are a number of Stage 2 or 3 files, which were available in all investigation committees – to ask 90 to 95 percent of all questions in public meetings. We assume that this will be the case this time too. If there is an attempt to make electronic blackouts through secret rating overreactions or the like, then we will know how to defend ourselves. Enlightenment can always only take place in the public. Mistakes can only be resolved if there is a public. A committee of inquiry, which takes place in the third basement, is not an investigation committee, it is a cover-up committee – we will not participate in it. [[As a result of the SPÖ, and by Mr Krisper and Mr Zadić.]] In any case, I assume that there will be good cooperation. I can already say to my group that – and I personally too – we are looking forward to working with the other leaders of the political groups who, if I may believe the media reports, are Werner Amon of the ÖVP, Hans-Jörg Jenewein of the Freedoms, Stephanie Krisper of the NEOS and Alma Zadić of the Pilz List. In any case, I am looking forward to working together. We have a lot to do. We've got a lot in front of us. It's good that the reconnaissance can begin. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16618	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Walter Rosenkranz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16657	Madam President. High house! Yes, the white smoke rises at a record pace. We would have had four weeks after the request to hold a meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Now there was the Committee meeting already on the same day and one day, not even 24 hours later, this BAT study committee has been set up. It is the second committee of inquiry during this legislative period, and we will now hold it parallel to the other committee of inquiry. It is a truly exciting topic. To Foul Well, let's really use it today. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] But they can't cheat on it: It was very simple and gripping a bad desire, you can't press all eyes. – Mr Jarolim has already prepared something again – a red Taferl. [[shaking the head]] Anyway, I do not want to pour any more oil into the burning wounds of the SPÖ at this hour. There will be an exciting committee. An important question will in fact concern the files. Mr Krainer, an objective objection: Despite pending court proceedings, we have not received certain documents in the area of Eurofighter. These were in particular the documents that really interested us, namely those documents of the prosecutors in the European field, which were about the openings of accounts that took place across the continent. We didn't get it. We have not only blackened them or got them in Stage 3 or Stage 4, but we have not got them at all, even though they have made them more clear about the corruption, bribery and similar accusations or some things that we absolutely do not have within the framework of parliamentary control, which we would nevertheless have been interested in. From the point of view of the subject, I think it will certainly not be a major problem that many things will be publicly negotiated. However, there will also be many things that we need absolute confidentiality, especially when it comes to information we have received from foreign intelligence agencies or similar bodies – this is also concerned with the subject matter of investigation. We will have no difficulties, for example – and this is already in the decision of proof – with the presidency office, which is also an institution that we are dealing with. I do not think it will be very difficult to get the President-in-Office and the President-in-Office of the Federal Republic of Germany into the committee to question them – the President of the Federal Republic of Germany appoints high-ranking officials, and that is also a subject of investigation – with what political influence they have placed their signatures among the various appointments during the investigation period. This will certainly work publicly. All in all, whether public or not, I expect parliamentarians to be aware of what actually happened in the BAT in these ten years. In addition to the points which have already been mediated to the public, some of which have already been discussed in the non-public committees of the Parliament or here in the form of urgent questions, there are still a few things to be found – also there They say that the suspicion is that this is the tip of an iceberg – then we parliamentarians must be pleased to air, shine and penetrate the rest of this iceberg, which lies below the sea level. I have reported myself as a substitute for this committee, because it is a great concern for me to see a lot of things there and to see what has happened.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16715	Mrs. Dr.in Stephanie Krisper is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16736	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that we – SPÖ, NEOS and List Pilz – were together successful in introducing a request for the setting up of this Committee of Inquiry. A common approach has been very important to us since the beginning, because we consider this important in order to ensure successful information. It was important not only to light the Causa BVT, but also to the Ministry of the Interior, that is, the question of how people from the upper Hierarchies in the BMI were treated with the BVT and the police body as well as with data. For us, it was therefore important that the subject-matter of the investigation should cover these issues and that we look back ten years, until 2008. This is, of course, a long time, but it is important for the Enlightenment. It is therefore about examining the existence of a black network and the use of data for parties. One of the most important wiredrivers has left the network that erodes the system. However, we do not want blue nepotism, which we then entrust to our data, especially with regard to the fact that we – not NEOS, but the majority – have today blessed a monitoring package. I am therefore pleased to begin with the Enlightenment to put an end to the power play and to ensure security in this country by making it clear to the U Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16775	Next speaker: Mrs Dr.in Alma Zadić. Ladies and gentlemen, you only have two minutes to speak, which is the rest of your group's speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16794	Madam President. High house! I am also pleased to have the honour of speaking here as the last speaker in this long plenary week before you. I'm going to keep it very short. I am pleased that the representatives of the ÖDP and the FPÖ have given the green light to this Committee of Inquiry. Our desire was formulated legally and politically precisely. It was waterproof – this is what some constitutional judges have called. [[Abg. Rosary: That's it!]] That is why I am pleased that all Members of this House are together ready to clarify in this BAT study committee what political influence has taken place over the last ten years. In particular, three points are important to us: It is about carefully examining the shackles of the ÖVP network, especially in the case of the animal protectionists, in the case of Lansky and in the case of Maurer. Of course, it will also be a question of investigating the questionable house searches and clarifying what they had to do with the protection of the Constitution and why a police unit led by a FPÖ man was responsible for them. That's all very exciting. The next weeks and months will be very intense. I look forward to working together very much. I am also pleased that we will free the constitutional protection of party political interests and make it a constitutional protection of the Republic of Austria and all Austrians. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16828	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. The agenda is exhausted. [[17:35:40]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-20-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16858	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 218/A(E) to 228/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 5.36 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
