ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e9925	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear staff! I'm allowed to do the 38. The European Council held a meeting of the National Council. I'm glad to welcome you again today. We start the autumn work with an extraordinary meeting. I hope you had a good summer to recover a little; and that the hot temperatures have now turned off the cooler autumn temperatures, we all do well. I am pleased that you are well-preserved back that there has been no accidents or anything special. [[09:02:00]] Meeting of the National Council at an extraordinary meeting 2018
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e9956	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has the National Council with resolution of 3. ==References====External links== 28 para. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act on the basis of a request from more than one third of the members of the National Council for an extraordinary meeting of the XXVI. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The official protocols of 34 and 35. Meeting of 4. ==References== Meeting of 5. ==References== Meeting of 5. July 2018 are present in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. As prevented, the Members of this House are reported today. Wolfgang Gerstl, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Dr. Maria Theresia Niss, Claudia Plasolm, Johannes Schmuckenschlager, Walter Bacher, Dietmar Keck, Christian Hafenecker, MA, Dr. Jessi Lintl, Ing. Robert Lugar, Stephanie Cox, BA, Dr. Alfred J. Nollund Mag. Bruno Rossmann. [[09:02:47]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e10029	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Dominik Schrott has renounced his mandate and Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.(FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller was appointed to the National Council. Since the election permit is already in place and the said person is present in the house, I may make the fishing immediately. After the reading of the vow formula and the name call by the writing, the mandater will have to do her fishing with the words “I vow”. I can now ask the author, Mrs Lueger, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e10068	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e10090	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e10114	Thank you. You're not familiar with the new ones in this circle, and so you're familiar with the use of this house. Welcome! [[09:03:59]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e10138	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is represented by Vice Chancellor Heinz-Christian Strache. [[09:04:09]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e10175	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[09:04:20]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e10504	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question submitted at the beginning of the sitting 1590/J by Mr Krainer, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for the Interior concerning ‘Inland Minister Kickl Drätzker in the case of illegal Razzia in the BAT’. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 12 noon. I can announce that today's meeting of ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and ORF III will be broadcast live in full length. I am now allowed to interrupt the sitting properly until 12 noon. I wish you good advice.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e10547	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'm allowed to start the interrupted session again. I warmly welcome the audiences on the gallery and in front of the televisions at home. [[12:00:48]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues to the Federal Minister for the Interior on ‘Internal Minister Kickl Drachskeker in the case of illegal razzia in the BAT’ (1590/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e10584	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 1590/J. Let me give you a brief introduction. It is now the third special meeting of the National Council on this very delicate subject. I know that the discussions are natural. Very different, often very hard, often also in a way that does not satisfy the protection of some people, but I think that we here in the House have a special scale to apply, namely that we always have in mind the dignity of this House. Much has already been done from a parliamentary point of view with the launch of the Committee of Inquiry in this case. This urgent question today is another parliamentary process for dealing with this issue, and I would really ask you to do so very urgently, also with regard to the overall picture that we are giving – this is a causa that is essential for Austria, and it is very essential how we, as parliamentarians, deal with it – that we do not lose sight of the necessary seriousness despite different points of view and views and the fact that it is a matter of national interest. Since the corresponding document has now been received by all the Members of Parliament, reading by the writer is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e10852	I should like to ask Mr Krainer as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling under § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes, give the floor. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e10873	Mr President. You mentioned it earlier: Yes, this is the third time we're inviting to a special meeting to the entire BAT scandal. The events on this issue simply overlap, and the information that is coming to the public is becoming more and more. The real reason for today's special meeting was that the Upper Regional Court of Vienna found that the search for the house – other words about robbery or Razzia – was illegal in the BAT, which took place at the end of February, that it was simply illegal and could not have taken place at all. This is the reason why we invited us to this meeting today. It must be said that this BAT scandal is becoming more and more a scandal of the Interior Minister, a kickl scandal. It is very, very important to keep an overview of what happened, and that is why I should like to remind you at first of how this house search came about, to this attack on the BAT. More than a year ago, a convoy of accusations has been circulated; many journalists have received it, I think, all the political parties, and even the current Minister of the Interior Kickl has already received it about a year ago, then still in another function. It is important that the allegations listed in this convoy are clarified. It is important that the public institutions – the prosecutor’s office – examine these allegations and, if something is true, clarify the matter. That is a good thing, and that is the case in a rule of law, and we are 100 percent behind it! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] Several investigations have also been initiated, because there are various accusations; they have been partially discontinued, partly they are still being persecuted. The rule of law goes its way, determines – that is all right. But what has happened again is that at the beginning of this year, the Secretary-General, i.e. the poorest employee of Interior Minister Kickl, announced this convolut at the Public Prosecutor's Office. – That’s perfectly all right, too. He himself said that this is not only his duty as an official, but it is also his civil duty to bring such things to light when it becomes known to him. – I believe that according to these standards of his Secretary-General, the Minister of the Interior has not fulfilled his citizenship duty, because he has not made it known, although he had it for half a year at the time, but the two will make up for it. [[Federal Minister Kickl, with the fingers of the right hand, points out a tickle under the left arm.]] Now, however, something that is not common in a rule of law is beginning, namely that the office of the Minister of the Interior – its closest staff – is taking investigations, without the order of the prosecutor. They meet with potential witnesses for weeks, listen to them. At this point, Mr Krisper of the NEOS is to say thank you: She has revealed by a request that the office of the Minister of the Interior, his secretary-general and staff of his office have met five times with witnesses over a period of several weeks. We do not know exactly what they have been discussing with them, but what we can say about the act is that there has not been any information to the prosecutor at any time. They did not have the task of holding these talks, they did not have the task of carrying out these hearings, and they did not inform the public prosecutors at any time of what was said at these hearings. This was so long until the office of the Minister of the Interior – and this is a very essential point – apparently built up this so-called investigation pressure. Even the Minister of Justice now allows the public prosecutor to examine to what extent the office of the Interior Minister, himself and his closest staff have built up an investigational pressure on the public prosecutor's office and what information the prosecutor's office had at what time. What we see is that they said first of all: ==References== On March 1, we have to secure evidence because of the fact that they are the first to be seen. March be destroyed! – It has to be almost before the 1st. But something happens. Then they call, 20th. February, three weeks after they first met with the first witness, and tell the prosecutor: It's the first witness to report to us now! Not of three is the talk, nor is it: We've been talking to them for weeks! The first witness has now reported and would be ready to make a statement! An employee of the cabinet invites them, on a certain day, namely the 21. February to make their statement there at a certain time. But not only that, he also accompanies them, is sitting next door all the time, and we also know that this employee, a close employee of the Interior Minister, was announced to the prosecutor's office because it was important that he was there because he could bring their statement to the right connex. Some of the statements made by him are also in the Minutes. They were then deleted again, but he also made information there, which a trusted person normally does not do. - That's what we see. At the end of this first witness consultation with the Procuratorate, the employee of the Minister of the Interior says: A second witness reported, and he'd have time tomorrow. And again he accompanies him as a trusted person there and therefore knows exactly what information the prosecutor receives. The whole thing repeats the next day with the third person. Then comes a weekend, Saturday, Sunday, then the fourth witness comes there, and the next day the preliminary meeting to the Razzia is already taking place. In the case of the Razzia, it is not those police units that normally do so, but a non-competent unit, namely the deployment group to combat street crime. By chance, the head of this group is a FPÖ politician, a councillor, a member of the FPÖ. He learns on the day the first witness is loaded at the prosecutor's office that something is being prepared. That is, he learns about the planned action, even before the prosecutor's office even heard the first witness. We find no documentation on the fact that the prosecutor knew anything about the fact that already a week before this police unit was scheduled to carry out this house search, this Razzia, under the leadership of a FPÖ politician. It's not documented at all. The information provided there has been given to everyone, to the public prosecutor and also to the judge, as a reason for the urgency of this house search, namely: It's a danger in default, because important evidence data could be deleted remotely! That's what one of these people says, one of these witnesses. By the way, the office of the Minister of the Interior – and he knew about it – had already been heard three weeks before, not even, but twice. That is, for three weeks now, the Ministry of the Interior and Kickl's office have had the information that there could be remote erasures. The investigative committee has shown that this is a perfect humbug. Data can not only be deleted from three persons, but it can theoretically delete individual data from 200 people, but it would be precisely logged who deleted when, and most of the files could be recovered. That is, this reason for the urgent need to do a house search has simply been lifted; it was wrong. I couldn't have said it better than a person who meant: Whoever claimed this, has watched too many TV films or movies, apparently some James Bond things. – This also explains these absurdities that it was also very important to take away not only the mobile phones for all staff, but also the keychains, because this witness apparently believed that the keychains were any secret buttons that could be used to jump any hard disks, so obviously someone who has seen too many movies. According to media reports, the journalist also says that this pretext of possible remote deletion was the reason that he granted the approval from the desk at 22.30 a.m. orally. – The remote deletion could never have existed, and if someone had erased something remotely, you would have known exactly who it was. This was a proposed argument, which is not valid and has in the meantime proved to be false. How has this house search been performed? – In this house search, one thing is notable: she was simply brutal. We have also heard this in the Committee of Inquiry; those concerned have spoken of the brutality of the procedure, first of all those of Mr Preiszler, the FPÖ politician, who led this house search, this Razzia. There is also already what is completely new to us, investigations by the prosecutor's office against pricing agents as a person for necessity. After this house search, an internal investigation was carried out, and a lawyer who had worked as a prosecutor for years said that there was a clear need. That means that this house search was insanely brutal. Secondly, she was completely overwhelming. As we learned, they went in there and wanted to take everything. For example, they wanted to reduce the entire server landscape, i.e. take all the computers of this office with them. When they realized that this is not a computer, but that the 50 are computers, they have distanced themselves from it. However, they have collected completely overwhelming data that have nothing to do with the investigations that exist; for example, a file contained some exercises with a seat cushion. It was completely absurd things that were taken away, but this data collection has caused a damage to all of us, a damage to the security of the country – and that for a very simple reason: Data was taken from investigators, i.e. from sources, that is, from persons who feed the domestic secret service in Austria with information. What do you think about how secure sources from the inside of the police are when, as I say, the activities of the chiefs on information about criminal organizations, mafia organisations and so on still feel when they have to expect data about their person or data to allow conclusions to be drawn to their person to fall into the wrong hands? Who else will do that? That is to say, you have put those police at risk who make the hardest and most difficult work you can do in Austria, who work for our safety every day using their lives. Their data has come into the wrong hands – we know that because the clear names of our hidden investigators were partly in the act and because of the fact that they are no longer in control of who in Austria knows the names of the hidden investigators of the domestic secret service. Of course, it is your responsibility, and indeed your responsibility as Minister of the Interior, to protect your police, and you have not succeeded – on the contrary, because of your action, they have only been threatened. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and list of fungus.]] Next: You have to ask: What is the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism for? – It has several tasks, for example, it has the task of protecting us from terrorist attacks. This has also been very successful in the past. Although there has been terrorist attacks in many European countries in recent years, there has been no terrorist attacks in Austria, and this also has something to do with the good work of our police officers, both in the BAT and outside the BAT. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and list of fungus.]] However, for this work to work well, international cooperation is needed, and it takes place informally in the so-called Berne Club or in the Berne Group, which is a combination of all the intelligence services of the European Union plus Switzerland and Norway. They all work together, for example, in the field of anti-terrorism. But they also work together in the field of the fight against right-wing extremism, also in the field of espionage defence, that is, in whole, very important areas, in the very, very important tasks that this office has. There have been long media reports about the problems with cooperation. A basic rule, if you exchange information, is that you can be confident that the information really stays with the others and not gets into the wrong hands. The result of the house search was that we obviously stood in front of the outrage from this Bernese group, from this Bernese club or at least at the end of June. This has been revealed by Mr Pilz in the committee of inquiry that it was exactly that way. I have the act here, no one will be able to dispute this act. This must be broken on the tongue: A few days before this act was written, the Minister of the Interior here said from this point of view, thus informing us Members and the entire Austrian population: Cooperation with the other partner services is good, there are no problems! – Almost at the same time, the employees of your home, Minister Kickl, write that a suspension of the BVT is in the room by the Bernese group, and in order to be able to oppose it – that we will not be thrown out of this association, where information is exchanged – we have to produce a damage report, namely, about what all the information has left our house. – This is a letter from the prosecutor’s office, the authenticity will not challenge anyone; I would never come to the idea. [[Keeping a document in height]] You can also see from the list how much the damage is. I am not going to list exactly what documents had to be reported as damage with such a high level of secrecy in this report. You can no longer deny that this damage has been caused. If you say again today, there's no harm, I have to tell you: I don't think you're a word! [[Consistency with SPÖ, NEOS and list of fungus as well as the Abg. Bißmann.]] That has a simple reason: Three months ago, you claimed this too, but we see exactly the opposite: We don't know how much he is. And if the FPÖ comes now and says: But the Italian Minister of the Interior, Mr Salvini, has issued a personal license, even he says everything is fine!, then one must say: All right, that's one of your right-wing friends, your political partner in other governments. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hauser and Mr Lausch.]] But you should have just taken a look at the constitution of Italy, then you would have insisted that Mr Salvini is not just not responsible, but cannot be responsible for any intelligence from the Constitution. This Persil license from Salvini has the same quality as if Mrs. Hartinger were to say here, in the Army News Office everything is fine. [[Abg. Rosary: No, it cannot be assumed by the Minister for Social Affairs!]] He is worthless because he cannot and must not be responsible for the intelligence services. Look into the Italian Constitution, then you will notice: He is excluded from jurisdiction! [[In the case of the SPÖ, the representatives of NEOS and List Pilz and the Agg. Bißmann.]] These dementis you've been bringing for weeks, these allegations that everything is all right, are wrong! It's all right. It is not all right if all of us are safe when the security of the citizens in this country is no longer guaranteed because you are destroying this security by the house search. [[In the case of the SPÖ, the representatives of NEOS and List Pilz and the Agg. Bißmann.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The damage is undisputed. But of course the question is: Who is responsible for this damage? In fact, there are two areas that you need to look at. One is the judicial sector, i.e. Minister of Justice Moser and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The political responsibility we can always do here – we are not investigating legal responsibilities but political – is, of course, on the one hand with Minister of Justice Moser – he is not here – and on the other hand we are looking at Minister of the Interior Kickl. Now I ask you all the question: Who is responsible for the damage caused by this robbery, by these razzia in the BAT? The Minister of Justice, who at no time was informed of the investigations on the search for the house, but who had only learned about it in the post-amendum – perfectly in accordance with the law! – or the Minister of the Interior, who was informed at any time of the investigations, whose office belonged to witnesses for weeks, and who gave notice to the prosecutor who was sitting next to it? [[Abg. Mr Belakovich: Mr President! Final word!]] They really have step by step – step by step! – decided on which day the prosecutor gets information at what time! [[Abg. Belakovich: Talk time!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e10999	Please say the closing word!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e11014	I'm asking: Who bears the political responsibility? – That can only be Minister of the Interior Kickl!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e11041	To answer the question, Mr Kickl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e11063	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is not quite surprising for me that, in much of what Mr Krainer says, it is not quite at the height of time, just as I am not surprised that some of you seem to have not completely internalized the fine but very important distinction between opposition and inquisition. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] It was certainly true that some time ago, when this special meeting was convened, a big event – as you have now tried – was hit in connection with the threat to the security of the Republic: The people in Austria are now suddenly completely helplessly exposed to any terrorist attacks. To this day, even with the help of some media, they have tried to draw the most dramatic picture possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] The interesting thing is that this issue is no longer at all in the light of your urgent request today – which I find in writing – at all. You've cleared it a little bit, because some kind of thing happened to you, which obviously doesn't fit you into this directorial plan. On the one hand, there is the witness you have always presented, a certain Mr. Hanning, a BND-pensionist who has been behind his best years for a long time, who, in the “image” newspaper you otherwise very much valued, which you like to quote, has said something about the fact that he somehow suspects that there are problems in cooperation with the German intelligence service in particular. A few days later, however, Mr Hanning also sat down in the “ZIB 2” and there he asked the question of where he was going, he actually didn’t know that he had read it in the newspaper. – The information thus comes from the newspaper, and the newspaper reports are not so small a part of what you say – let's call it – of the related and shortened information to the public. I don't think that's responsible. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So it didn't work so well with the witness Hanning. Now I don't know, Mr. Krainer, whether you've missed it today: There is someone in Germany who is responsible for the intelligence services – a look into the German constitution will be sufficient to establish that – and that is the German Chancellor Helge Braun. I visited him on Tuesday. He told me what I always say: that cooperation works perfectly. He was obviously also interviewed by the APA. There is the following news today – I quote the German Minister responsible for the German Federal Intelligence Service from a report from the Austrian Press Agency –: “Austria is and remains an important partner of Germany in the intelligence service cooperation”, and: “We want to continue the good cooperation of Austrian and German services together.” – That doesn’t fit into your plan, ladies and gentlemen, but these are the facts. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And that shows above all one I'm right, and you're wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim]] Who are your witnesses, Mr. Jarolim? We have already heard of Mr Hanning. Then there is the second group of witnesses, these are those who are anonymous. This has the pleasant side effect for you that no one can confirm if there are any. [[Abg. Wittmann: Take responsibility!]] And then there is a third category of witnesses, which are those who somehow hang in it themselves as a victim or in the context of criminal proceedings. These are then called witnesses by you, but the folk mouth would probably say: Yes, but these people are quite caught! - Or? Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing today the third special meeting of the National Council on the so-called BAT-Causa, which in fact is nothing but a criminal case, as a investigation procedure directed against a handful of employees. By the way, don't pretend, Mr Schieder, as if there had been no such thing in the past, and don't pretend that in the past there would have been no such thing in the BAT! [[Abg. Arbitrators: You see it right: a criminal case!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mrs Wittmann and Mr Knes.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] At the time, stop was a red-black government at work, because you didn't even care about it, because you tried to keep things under the spell. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Yes, get order!]] Then we had a urgent question in the Federal Council, and there were meetings of the secret subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior and meetings of the National Security Council. Then there is a committee of inquiry on which I heard from the leaders of the opposition that he should last about a year. – The interesting thing is that after two days you already know everything and have publicly expressed your judgment! [[Abg. Arbitrators: With your... Chaopolitik Austria is going down!]] That is why I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because it is important for me to say that, despite the great effort you have put into doing here, you have not succeeded in proving to me and to the people responsible for my house an illegal course. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] I have to let you down: You won't succeed in the future either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I take the law very seriously, and I take it very seriously in implementation, where I, as the executive body, am responsible for ensuring that things are implemented in the way they need to be implemented. Whether you like this personally or not, I really cannot take this into account, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, but we are not only entitled to act in the area of criminal proceedings in connection with the criminal cases referred to under the legislation. We are also a criminal police force, and you have to deal with the special structure of the Ministry of the Interior for you to understand. I don't know how you actually imagined that. When people come to the police and say: Please, I have a perception of a criminally relevant approach!, then, according to your idea, it is apparently so that one should tell the people: I'm not interested, I'm going to the Salt Office or somewhere else, we're not interested in it at all! – I can only say: Good night, rule of law, good night, Austria! We have another access. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Greiner and Mr Knes.]] Anyone who deals with matter a little, everyone who knows the basic building blocks of our constitution and takes them seriously, everyone who only deepens a bit in the paragraphs of the criminal procedure knows that. Everyone knows we're right and you're wrong. If you are looking for a political person now, you are basically looking for a political officer to ensure that there has been a rule of law correct implementation and a rule of law correct procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] After that, I'd like to be responsible! That's a nice compliment you're giving me! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Somehow I find it quite strange that we now meet again and again here so that I can justify before you that I comply with the laws you have passed in this House. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You will have to explain sometime why this is such a strange process when a minister does what the law tells him. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Would you just do it!]] I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, your experts know this very well, because they can turn every acting lid around instead of twenty times a hundred times. That makes you so unrounded, and that's why you do something quite different than contribute to the education: They're telling stories. [[Abg. Loacker: “Unround” is a projection!]] You do this medial, you do this here, and this Whole works according to the following principle: You just put things on your head. In today's explanation of your urgent request we find all the building blocks you use to put things on the head. First of all, they act as if there were no separation of violence in Austria – they are simply not there, they are not, they are ignored by you, they are simply taken aside – but the simple fact that you yourself have quoted a statement from the Supreme Court shows that we are dealing with a jurisdiction that falls within the field of justice, because otherwise the Supreme Court would not be responsible. When it came to the interior, an administrative court would be responsible for it. I think that's what a jus student learns in the first or second semester. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: Please don't give me any credit.]] With absolute and sustainable consequence, they ignore the relevant provisions of the criminal code. In the Criminal Code, it is clear and clear – by the way, after another VfGH recognition in 2010 – that there is a clear division of tasks, that the prosecutor is the master of the trial and that the prosecution of the criminal police is buying, rather than the criminal police of the prosecutor. – It’s so simple, but you ignore it in permanence! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Then you come with the construction of the investigation pressure. Do you know who's actually carrying out investigational pressure? Do you know who's carrying out investigation pressure? – The legislator exerts investigational pressure, namely on the criminal enforcement agencies, and these criminal enforcement bodies are the criminal police, the prosecutor's office and the courts, because it is a matter of clarifying crimes and criminal offences. So the investigation pressure is being carried out by the legislator, which is good, and that is also the reason why the institutions I have mentioned are coordinating themselves and cooperating as I have told you before. That's how it's laid down by law. Another building block of your wrong world is that you make assumptions, feelings, rumors, as if it were empirical facts, as if it were facts. Then suddenly the system administrator of the BVT – certainly a very good specialist in his field – becomes your exclusive source when it comes to whether international cooperation with other services works. He doesn't have anything to do with this, but he's interested in it. You apparently don't, because it doesn't fit into your story. Then – including another building block – you take things out of context, quote incompletely, as well as You have also done it again at the saying of the Supreme Court. They simply take out certain building blocks, do not say that the initial suspicion is, of course, justified that the investigations are justified, that even all the house searches have not been declared lawful, and so everyone can make a picture of your selective perception and your selective communication in this causa. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Then something else comes along, something you should think about in a quiet minute: They work with accused persons in criminal proceedings – these are the people who would actually be said to be normal consumers – they must somehow be a bit biter in their own case if they are accused in a criminal proceedings – to get prosecutors against the investigative authorities. This is something very interesting. Have you – you so much like to talk about damage – ever thought about what damage you do with it? [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Those who are persecuted by the criminal justice are those who are your witnesses against the investigators, that is, the police who are supposed to protect you, and the prosecutors. – This is a really interesting access! There is another building block in your strange, wrong world, namely that those who are witnesses and investigators in a trial are consistently pushed into bad light, while those who are accused of having the status of a suspect or even an accused person are the poor victims for you. These are for you those who are in need of protection. They assume that there is nothing behind this anyway, because the media have already found it. – I have always thought that justice is responsible! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is an interesting access that I find more often with you. This is the same with regard to the asylum system: There are also those good people who want to hide an asylum title with false information – these are the good ones, these are the poor ones – while those who consistently work on the implementation of the rule of law are the evil ones, those to which you have to point with your finger. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Do you actually press ahead with the answers?]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Ah-noise at the SPÖ.]] It's always the same model you're working with. For this reason, I would like to say to you: This wrong world, that's my opponent, and I'm going to fight against this your wrong world. [[Abg. Arbitrators: What about the questions?]] [[Abg. Krainer: What you do is unreasonable!]] I do this today, and I will do so in the future – in the interests of the truth and in the interests of protecting our own people. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Your stories have an advantage: They all sound very exciting and spectacular, but it's not about whether you might be a good criminal author or whether you're suitable as a conspiracy theorist. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] That's not the point. This is about the review of facts, and it is about whether the paragraphs that require the legal order of this Republic have been complied with. These questions need to be clarified. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Then I'll tell you something more about it To check out what you're talking about, you just have to see what's left of the stories you told in the past, and you can't really find something that's out of a lot of hot air. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Are there answers, too, or not?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Don't be so nervous!]] So the comparison, ladies and gentlemen, makes sure. I am here to answer your over 50 questions in total. Question 1: ==References====External links== February 2018 without any mention of any application details informed of any use. It was only explained how much time was needed to provide 30 to 40 people for a possible use. There was no reference to a concrete act of office. No documentation was required. Questions 2 and 3: ==References====External links== ==References== Questions 4 and 5: The information was given in the context of the meeting on 27 February. ==References== Questions 6 and 7: Planning, specific assignment, implementation and follow-up of the house search fall within the competence of the Federal Ministry of Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice. Question 8: ==References== January 2018 from about 4 p.m. to about 5.30 p.m. in the BMI's premises; on 12 February 2018. February 2018 from about 5 p.m. to about 5.45 p.m. in BMI's premises. On the question 9: No, there was no reason for that. Each was a formless conversation that was desired by Witness person 1. Question 10: No. On the question 11: The person was not invited, but appeared at her own express request to the conversations. Question 12: In the course of the talks, the responsible specialist representative of the Secretary-General of the Federal Ministry of the Interior was present alongside the Witness person 1. On the question 13: The prosecutor's office was not previously informed by the talks. There is no reason to understand the prosecutor's office in advance of finding informal talks. ==References====External links== The BMI's Secretary-General's responsible expert representative agreed on February 2018. Question 14: There was neither an inquiry nor a consultation within the meaning of the StPO, so the creation of a protocol was not necessary. Question 15: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On the question 16: The Secretary-General of the Federal Ministry of the Interior was informed of the talks by word of mouth the following day. I myself was informed on the next occasion by the Secretary-General. No information was received from the Federal Minister for Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice and the Secretary-General in his office. On the question 17: ==References== On February 9, 2018, from around 10 a.m. to about 12 p.m. in the BMI's premises; on February 9, 2018, from around 10 a.m. to about 12 p.m. February 2018 from about 4 p.m. to about 7 p.m. at the request of Witness 2 in a Vienna restaurant. On the question 18: No, there was no reason for that. Each was a formless conversation that was desired by Witness person 2. Question 19: No. Question 20: The person was not invited, but appeared at her own express request to the conversations. On question 21: ==References====External links== In addition to the witness person 2 of the responsible specialist representative of the Secretary-General of the Federal Minister for the Interior, February 2018. ==References== In addition to these two, the Secretary-General of the Federal Ministry of the Interior was also present. On the question 22: The prosecutor's office was not previously informed by the talks. There is no reason to understand the prosecutor's office in advance of finding informal talks. ==References====External links== The BMI's Secretary-General's responsible expert representative agreed on February 2018. On the question 23: No, there was neither an inquiry nor a consultation within the meaning of the StPO, so the creation of a protocol was not necessary. Question 24: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On question 25: The Secretary-General was appointed by the meeting on 2 February. It was notified orally on the same day on February 2018. ==References== ==References====External links== I myself was informed on the next occasion by the Secretary-General. No information was received from the Federal Minister for Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice and the Secretary-General in his office. On the question 26: The conversation lasted from about 10 a.m. to about 11 p.m. and took place at the express request of the Witness person 3 in a Vienna coffee house. On the question 27: No, there's no reason for that. This was a formal conversation that was desired by Witness person 3. On the question 28: No, no, no, On question 29: The person was not loaded, but appeared at her own express request for conversation. Question 30: In addition to the witness person 3 the responsible specialist representative of the Secretary-General of the Federal Ministry of the Interior was present. On question 31: The prosecutor's office was not previously informed by the talks. There is no reason to understand the prosecutor's office in advance of finding informal talks. ==References====External links== In February 2018, the Secretary-General of the Federal Ministry of the Interior agreed by the relevant expert. On question 32: No, there was neither an inquiry nor a consultation within the meaning of the StPO, so the creation of a protocol was not necessary. On question 33: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On question 34: ==References====External links== February 2018 orally informed of the conversation. I myself was informed on the next occasion by the Secretary-General. No information was received from the Federal Minister for Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice and the Secretary-General in his office. On question 35: The question cannot be answered, since the employees are not aware of the fact that other persons with whom talks take place have since been accepted as witnesses in the Causa by law enforcement authorities. On question 36: In the absence of a concrete definition of the concept of Causa, it is not possible to answer this question. Discussions between the staff of the Cabinet and the General Secretariat as well as all other organizational units of the BMI with third parties are part of the daily business. On the question 37: ==References====External links== February 2018 by telephone to the relevant specialist of the Secretary-General of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. On the question 38: Immediately after the WKStA had been ordered, the witness person 3 was informed by telephone of an appointment. Law is the case of the Consisting Procuratorate. Question 39: No. On question 40: Cooperation between partner services is based on trust. There was therefore a need for confidence-building measures based also on the presentation of the facts, the external impact, on structural measures to be taken. That a suspension would be the last consequence was to me on 26. It was notified on 1 June 2018. Question 41: My statement from the 11th century. June 2018 was based on numerous discussions at different levels confirming that cooperation with international partners continues to work. On question 42: ==References== August 2018 in the course of a press conference by Federal Minister Moser in Alpbach. On question 43: ==References== May 2018. In addition, I can inform you that the case is on 3 March. It was sent by the Directorate-General for Public Security for Criminal Assessment to the Federal Criminal Office in May 2018. On question 44: The head of the EGS was appointed on the occasion of the telephone call with the Secretary-General of the BMI on 27 July. On 27 February 2018, he was informed of the forthcoming operational meeting and informed after this meeting in the course of the operational planning process on 27 February 2018. On 1 February 2018, the EGS executives were appointed to the EGS. ==References== From 5 a.m. on, the team members were informed by the respective team leaders of the EGS and by the prosecutors. At the end of the operation, an attempt should be made to prevent the destruction of evidence as far as possible. On question 45: The house search was carried out on behalf of and under the direction of the WKSTA with judicial approval. All questions relating to planning, commissioning and conduct of the house search must be addressed to the Federal Ministry of Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice. On questions 46 and 47: Executive staff have been subject to a secret security check in the course of the admission process until the stage since 2008. Question 48: No, no, no, Question 49: Planning, specific assignment, implementation and follow-up of the house search fall within the competence of the Federal Ministry of Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice. Documentation obligations within the meaning of the StPO have been fulfilled. Question 50: ==References== September 2018. On question 51: The employee of the cabinet is also responsible for public relations. Participation in the Examining Committee, which also deals with key issues relating to the BMI's public relations, is therefore at least compatible with the employee's area of responsibility. On question 52: Yeah, it's known to me. The regular publication of information and performances is in any case a medium within the meaning of § 1 para. 1 Z 1 of the Media Act. Question 53: Yes. In addition, I can point out that the employee has a press card issued by an authorised body. It has duly legitimated itself when entering the U Committee site and has been controlled by the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! All that I have said may sound a little less spectacular than your martial vocabulary of robbery, first bout, file robbery, wire drawing and preparation, and what has all come about in the last days and weeks; but it has an advantage, my dear Ladies and gentlemen: It corresponds to the facts. I think it should be precisely these facts, and that is what the people have a right to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e11580	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Leichfried is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e11642	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr Federal Minister, it is already amazing, I must say how much time and energy you use for polemics and how you have betrayed the answers to this House – that is not how to deal with it! [[Call to the FPÖ: This is what you do!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Lack of scruples, little respect for the rule of law paired with incompetence, what this mating can do, ladies and gentlemen, we have experienced in recent months and especially in recent days. [[Abg. Stefan: So much for polemics!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I listened to a police officer on Wednesday in the investigation committee, one of those you have now qualified, Mr Kickl, and what he reported was depressing, yes, more than depressing. [[Abg. Belakovich: You wouldn't have to write the speech the day before!]] He said: I was a police officer all my life, I worked for many years in a so-called problem district in the field of foreign service. He also said: I believed I'd already experienced anything bad that you can experience, but I've been fooled there. A person who always adhered to the law, a person who dedicated his life to complying with the laws, who spent his life ensuring justice and order, a person who was often in danger of himself in order to take care of our security, this man had to do on the morning of 28. February 2018 experience that his ideals, his belief in the rule of law, were broken to equality before the law. – This is unacceptable, Mr Kickl, and you have caused it! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have the responsibility to do so. [[Call to the FPÖ: This is inconceivable!]] This responsibility will be: You must not only agree with your conscience, no, Mr Kickl, we here, this Parliament will do all it can to make you politically responsible for the breach of the rule of law, for the breakup of the division of power, for the violation of equality before the law! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the MP Pilz and Zinggl.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: You only trust to say that under the protection of immunity!]] I can already imagine what your motive was to do this: on the one hand, this so-called black network in the BAT, which nobody knows exactly whether or not it exists; on the other hand, I can imagine that you may not have been so concerned with the investigations on the issue of extremism. But what you did not think of, Mr Minister, was that you, Mr Krainer, have already mentioned it, caused immense damage. In times of great danger, you have made sure that the Austrian intelligence service was essentially no longer operational. [[Abg. Jenewein: The BAT is not a secret service!]] You have made sure that our Terrorist Capabilities were minimized in the time of the Austrian Presidency, and you have made sure that our BAT is viewed in the Western intelligence group. [[Abg. Belakovich: Do you even know what you're saying? That's not a secret service, you should know!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Belakovich: This is inconceivable!]] Do you know, Mr. Kickl, what the officials in the BAT are talking about? – They say: Yes, we still get information from other intelligence services, namely about how the weather is there, but nothing else! That's what they tell us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] But it's about much more, and that's the true scandal. [[Abg. Belakovich: If you're talking to BAT officials, then yes!]] What has happened, what you have initiated, was an attack on two pillars of our democratic system, an attack on the division of power and on the rule of law, and that, Mr Kickl, we do not allow this House to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Jessas!]] Scrupulousness, disregard for the rule of law, incompetence have led to this situation. Like the Federal President, like the once again absent German Chancellor, who seems to be not interested in how this House will react to this situation, will show how it is about our country, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope you all will be on the right side when that is to be shown! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e11855	Mr Amon has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e11877	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated Federal Ministers! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In my opinion, I do not quite understand, even if the justification of the urgent question and the question I have raised are quite factual, which is urgent on this urgent question. It is only this week that we have just begun the political investigation of the matter and two days with intensive surveys of the people behind us. These questions of today's urgent question could have been put in a written parliamentary question or within the framework of the Committee of Inquiry. I do not understand why you are calling the entire National Council. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would like to expressly say that the deliberations in the Committee of Inquiry were factual and informative, and I would like to thank the President-in-Office for their objective leadership and over-participation. I believe that in this way we can ensure very, very well a political Enlightenment, ladies and gentlemen. What we heard in the committee is essentially what was confirmed by the Supreme Court, or vice versa, in the committee, we received confirmation of what the Supreme Court found in its decision that the house searches were overwhelming. There is a statement from the Ministry of Justice that there should have been a certain amount of investigation. I believe that this political investigation can be carried out in the Committee of Inquiry in all its peace and in all its substance along this border, because it is ultimately about clarifying the question: Is there a political responsibility for this overwhelming behavior or does it not exist? – This is the question, and we will deal with it in the Committee of Inquiry. I therefore do not quite understand – I think I said the same thing at the last special meeting – why, after two days of political investigation in the Committee of Inquiry, you again threaten the Federal Minister for the Interior with a distrust request. Either there is a political investigation within the framework of the Committee of Inquiry, which we take seriously, and we now have a total of it – do not nail me! – 45 days only finished two days, but you already know what political responsibility is – I mean, then we can let the investigation committee be the same if everything is clear anyway – or you do not take it sufficiently seriously. You will still have to answer this question in today's debate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We also have a discussion on the decision on proof, and I believe that is already a matter that is of interest to the plenary, since we have also decided to set up the committee here. Those bodies that have to deliver files decide for themselves what files and documents to deliver. They decide for themselves which parts of the file, which files are covered by the decision of proof. They themselves suggest to us what classification these files should have. This is also brought by the Ministry of Justice in its letter of 5. In September of this year, it reads on page 2 in the first paragraph: “The file template was based on the basic decision of proof because dealing with the so-called “Lansky data” in the investigation procedure of the public prosecutor Linz against lawyer Dr. Lansky and others – in concrete terms in the field of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism – is explicitly an subject of investigation by the BAT investigation committee and therefore there was no margin to abstain from the investigation document (as part of the investigation procedure in the Causa BVT). It is therefore absolutely clear, and I think that the legal basis of the lawyer is clear that there is no possibility of providing these documents, even if now – of course, the legal path can always be followed – at the Constitutional Court. However, if it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that one of the essential reasons for the house searches is the data which is unlawfully deleted in the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection, then it is justified to check whether those files that may not have been deleted correspond to the actual files – because otherwise the basis would not have been given at all. That is why, in my opinion, and also our decision in the light of these acts of course includes evidence of the decision to prove it, ladies and gentlemen, and it remains. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Finally, I believe that it is necessary to examine this in peace – and I would like to stress this once again because today there was another discussion on how cooperation with the partner services and the like is going on. The more discussion we have about it, the worse it is, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, such services are used to working together in peace. This is about reliability, it is about trust, it is about cooperation, and it is ultimately about the security of our people, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore one really has to appeal that this matter is being examined and dealt with in peace and security here – in the interests of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e11954	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e11975	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister of the Interior! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! When I read through this urgent request, I already feel a little reminded that it is really a witch process that is being carried out there. This has nothing to do with reality in truth, if I read through the diction as to how brutal this has happened – yes, exactly, facts, Mr. Krainer – you write about an attack. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] [[Abg. Krainer:... Materiality speaks!]] [[Further call to the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] We have now had the opportunity to hear witnesses for two days, and all have declared unisono that this was not a robbery, but that it was a correct official act. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] As is then seen in the post-judgment, there is another leaf. However, the official act itself has been done correctly, and there is no reason at all to doubt that the orchestration of this house search, the management of this house search, of course, has taken place through the prosecutor's office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] So stop with these conspiracy theories, you don't think you're human anymore! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think it's only interesting that you already know after two days – and that's what you write in the reason for your urgent request, there's inside –: [[keeping a copy of the urgent request in height]] ‘Political responsibility’ for this attack ‘may only lie with Minister of the Interior Kickl and his Secretary-General’. . So you already know where political responsibility lies, so I wonder if we should really do it for a year to conduct a committee of inquiry, which costs a lot of time and money, binds up a lot of resources. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] You called him, after two days you know what's going on, so everything's clear anyway. That's the legal requirement, that's what you understand by the rule of law, that's what the SPÖ under control means by parliamentary control: [[Abg. Rosary: That's little!]] For two days we hear some witnesses, and then we know what happened! – That, ladies and gentlemen, will not work! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you're talking about a robbery, Mr. Krainer, think about what actual robbery are! Look Once you're looking at the pictures, when your socialist youth moves through Vienna with red flags! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] They're on the way with storm hoods, they're black-dressed. These are those who regularly place Vienna in Schutt and Ash when they protest against dissidents. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – These are robberys, and businessmen see this as robbery. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] But what is essential - - – – yell now [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] You're not always around, that's an excited chicken hop over there! [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] You are happy when your gladiators become pampy...
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e12118	Excuse me, Mr deputies, ‘Hungarians’, please, is not all right. [[Abg. Those wines: Well, I'll take back chickens!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: They're excited!]] In this discussion, I ask you to ensure that we do not violate the dignity of the House – and this concerns everyone, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e12174	I hope I'm back to the floor now, and I hope you can listen to me again. It's remarkable: You are pleased when the gladiators of the SPÖ come out and pour a single dirt bubble over this house, shake over the Interior Ministry, and you don't put up with it when you get the answer. [[Hello call at the SPÖ]] That's also remarkable. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Mr President, we are Members, not Gladiators! What are you doing?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Interestingly, the two speakers of SPÖ have not addressed what has already been achieved in the last two days. [[Abg. Arbitrators: A shame!]] – Do you know what a shame is? [[Abg. Arbitrators: You...!]] Their appearance is a shame! Your appearance is a shame, and your dealings with the control rights of this House is a shame. This is a shame, Mr. Arbitrator. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It seems essential to me that what has already become apparent in the first two days. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of Parliament, Knes and Arbitrators.]] [[Abg. Rosary: But this is really...! I can't! I can't do that, my colleague. I can't!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] In the first two days it became apparent that the BAT has a real problem with data security.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e12279	I'm sorry, it doesn't use anyone if they're emotionalized. “Fucking on the stick” is not possible, please take it back! Moment, honourable Member, I think it does not correspond to the dignity of the House that we are emotionalizing this debate. [[Abg. Arbitrators: And “Gladiers” goes?! What kind of president are you?! You're sleeping in the cuckoo clock!]] I had a statement taken back earlier, I now ask you to take back “thinking on the stick”, for which there used to be permanent calls for order. I am very, very reluctant here anyway. [[Abg. Arbitrators: “Schutzt and Ash ”?- Oh, my God!]] – “Schutzt and Ash” is not orderly. [[Abg. Arbitrators: “Gladiers”...! What are you doing?]] - If you want, I'll interrupt the session. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e12333	It's actually remarkable: So far, it has been customary for parliamentarians, when they go to the speaker's desk here, not simply to be yelled together and not to be permanently disturbed by intermediate calls. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl]] As you can imagine, perhaps it can happen in a People's Democratic Parliament; in a free Parliament, as I imagine it, such a thing is not possible. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact is, in terms of data security, we have an obvious problem in the BAT, we have heard that. There has been working there for nine years with a computer system that is not certified, employees have not been trained in dealing with secret documents, and that is actually one of the basic evils. I would like to return to something that Mr Krainer said, namely that partner services are totally uncertain. Do you know why partner services are uncertain? – You have a record knowledge, just like I do, or you should have a file knowledge, then read it: This problem has been known for years, you can read it in the files, and this problem is one of the reasons why Austria has a real problem on this issue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] To sum up, you have to say: This house search, and this has been discussed in detail in the last two days, has been done correctly, has been carried out correctly by the EGS. What Mr Krainer said a few days ago on television, namely that the suspensions were illegal, was also explained: That's not true. It's done correctly. By the way, this was the only criminally relevant accusation he formulated against the Minister of the Interior in a TV discussion a few days ago. Whether he takes it back, I don't know; I don't know if he's staying with it. That's also irrelevant, fact is: It was clarified that they were legally okay. I would also like to say a word to Mr Pilz, who sees this as a great stage, in order to perhaps clean up his not entirely impeccable Leumund, whom he has now acquired: I can already imagine what's coming back, probably something similar to what we've heard over the last few days: that he personally, as he said in a television discussion, spoke to BAT employees because he met them. Mr Pilz, we know what this is like if you want to get information from ministries. We have knowledge of files, there is also this in there: if you call in an office and the opinion, only the name Peter Pilz triggers a thunderstorm there, everyone goes to the knees and gives you everything you want. But you also know that only the insinuation is the incitement to a criminal act. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'm very excited about your delivery. The fact is that when you did that and apparently wanted to carry out any personal investigations as a private person, Peter Pilz, you were not protected by parliamentary immunity; I believe that you must be delivered. We'll take a closer look at this. The record note is quite clear, and I assume that this is something for which you – if you don't get sick again – have a tape disc incident or a sniff – will have to answer in court. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say something about the occurrence of the SPÖ, the two SPÖ-redners: The one was very hard because he apparently still wants to make a career in the SPÖ – it is also clear that the top of the party is almost on the way and is just ahead of the replacement – he sees himself as a young, emerging politician already in the place of Mr. Schieder. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] And the Lord Lightenfried has unfortunately done all the honor to his name today. – They spoke of incompetence. I wonder how anyone like you could ever hold a ministerial office in this country. This question has to be asked once again. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Apparently you were in a different survey than I was. [[Abg. Arbitrator: What about the name?]] Independent of: It is remarkable and it shows itself once again: The Socialists, and this has once found a Soviet dissident, make their way home by protecting criminals and all the others who are not criminal... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e12418	Mr Jenewein, that is unacceptable, I give you a call for an order. I can't! – Mr deputies, the downgrading of a Member here in the House or others through quotations is not possible, nor is it through a quote! [[Abg. Jenewein: I quoted social media, and that has been more often in this house...!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e12463	It is only interesting, I was of the opinion that in this House there are only social democrats and not socialists. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Martin Graf and Mr Rosenkranz.]] It's also something new that I learned again today. I always hear from the Social Democratic Party, but I like to take this up and notice that I cannot have a political party in this House because there are no socialists here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e12512	Member Krisper has been reported to speak. [[Abg. Jarolim: Such a inferior speech!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Why do you rate this speech before it was given?]] Excuse me, I ask all the Members: If someone is at the speaker's desk, it must be possible to show him the appreciation of letting him talk.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e12596	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of the Interior! We convened this special meeting because of the decision of the Supreme Court, which made it clear that, apart from one, all the house searches, especially those in the BAT, were disproportionate and therefore illegal. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] The day of this decision was a good day for the rule of law in Austria and for our democracy because the rule of law has resisted attacks. The rule of law is vulnerable. Who took advantage of this vulnerability, a potential arbitrariness of the prosecutor? - You, Minister of the Interior! [[Abg. Rosary: This is an unheard-of submission to the prosecutor!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] You have the absurd argument again today...
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e12636	I also ask you here: a “willfulness of the prosecutor”, that is not possible. Take this back, please! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call: Incomprehensible]] Please take back the term arbitrary prosecutor, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e12672	I'll take it back and look at the record. [[Abg. Cashier: With what unfrozenness the institutions of our Republic...!]] Mr Innenminister, you have today ventilated the absurd argument that there would have been an advertisement of the Secretary-General. Why did the Secretary-General go to the prosecutor? – Because he knew that a criminal procedure is already pending with her. There was nothing left to show. It was only to act with the authority of the office at the right moment in order to trigger what Justice Minister Moser called “exploratory pressure. ” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] For the most part, FPÖ is now saying that justice itself is guilty. The opposite is clear: If the witnesses had not made these statements, there would not have been a search for the house. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] The statements of those burden witnesses with whom – as you said today – the meetings are not recorded – your employees and partly your secretary-general also met in the inn, very serious. If your Secretary-General is already acting as an official, where is the documentation about these meetings and about these talks? [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] And: If ad is mandatory, why were these burden witnesses not then sent to the prosecutor so that she could agree, without preparation? However, the accusations made by the witnesses were by chance entirely in your interest, Mr. Interior Minister. They burdened BAT chief Gridling and were a pretext for urgent house search. In order to duplicate the statements made by the witnesses this week in the investigative committee: The idea of remote deletion, with which one would destroy proof that data has not been deleted as required, comes from one of these load witnesses. With regard to this idea, it was important in the investigation committee to a surveyed BAT staff member from the IT field to finally get rid of what is a – quote – “weakness”. It was important to him to say that out loud once. The dramatic about this misinformation of the witness, which was prepared by your employees: The witness, with this supposed danger of remote disposal, deceived the prosecutor that there was a danger in delay. What we have brought to light this week as an opposition in the Investigation Committee: It is quite clear that any deletion is logged. So you can understand who deletes data, the evidence of late deletions does not disappear. But the witnesses prepared by your employees did something: They accused BAT chief Gridling of not having commissioned the erasure of data, and thus freed the way because they had just discredited BAT chief Gridling and thus prevented the path of official assistance and opened the way to house searches. So without teaching these dubious witnesses, it would not have been for the suspension of Gridling and not for the search of the house. Our suspicion was that you wanted to paint here with the brechstang. They were more important to them in the BAT than to the security of our citizens – for what has the house search done? This brings us to the EGS, the unit that your Secretary-General, Mr Innenminister, offered to the Public Prosecutor's Office. I would like to stress here once again: The prosecutor can't choose which unit is used, the police propose. I asked the investigation committee this week: According to all the information, the EGS has never been used by an authority or by the EGS in the case of a house search. This was the first time in the BAT that this unit was used, under the direction of a FPÖ municipal council. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] This unit was made up of the prosecutor. And how did this unity come about? – The people we heard this week were dedicated BAT employees who could finally air their anger. [[Abg. Duzdar: Horrified! It's unscrupulous!]] The first person confirmed that Colonel Preiszler was threatened with suspension and violence. We've heard today that he's been charged for this. And, Mr. Minister, from the prosecutor's point of view, Master of the trial. – An information person who works at the security centre also stated that it had been pricing agents, who were the active part in the house search, not the lawyer, and it had been pricing agents who demanded and handed out the central card with which to access all the premises of the BAT. [[Abg. Rosary: Yes, and?]] How did Colonel Preiszler prepare his unit for the house search? – The second person described that highly sensitive data was taken in open cartons and plastic sackerls, which were available on site. The EGS official questioned confirmed that they did not receive any containers. – So much to prepare: Ikea-Sackerl for the most sensitive data in the Republic. [[Abg. Rosary: So what now? Now they were not prepared!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] The BAT employee said that the EGS-lers had gone without control at lunch break, and there are not only large hard drives there, but also sticks and DVDs and CDs. Also about the establishment of the entire server landscape in the BAT, which according to a BAT employee would have completely paralysed the Landesamt and the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism Control, was still laughed with galgen humor in the BAT for a long time. Besides these inconceivable risks to the data of the BAT, what is the damage caused by the house search? – One BAT employee told us that, as a result of the house search, colleagues in the intelligence service joked that it could continue to the pension, because the BAT was apparently so damaged after the house search that there was hardly anything to do for the intelligence staff. There was only more exchange about whether the weather was just beautiful or not. - Quote. This brings me to the sustainable damage that was done. We now know, and not as you have said today, Mr Minister, of hearing, but of a letter that we discussed in the Committee of Inquiry that the BAT was on the verge of a suspension itself as a result of the house search, namely from the Bern Club, the main merger of European intelligence services. Mr Minister, I was criminalised for this by your party colleagues, when I made it clear that they presented your prayer mills, that in cooperation with the partner services, everything would be fine, according to our record knowledge, would be simply wrong, and therefore you would lead the citizens around the nose. [[Abg. Höbart: Who prescribed this to you?]] I now ask you, Minister: When do you actually take the consequences for repeatedly telling people the untruth? That alone would be reason enough for a resignation. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] In your case, however, it is extremely difficult to believe that you are not only a false security, but also the reason and author of this uncertainty. – So two reasons, each of which would be taken for himself more than sufficient for a resignation. [[Congratulations on Members of NEOS and SPÖ.]] I am therefore speaking for all those who rightly demand that there be an interior minister who takes care of their security, and who want political misconduct to have consequences if I explicitly demand your resignation.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e12807	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Pilz for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e12838	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I think Mr Amon is perfectly right; he has said something important in the debate. The Committee of Inquiry has also been set up to clarify the political responsibility of several members of the government, not only of the Minister of the Interior but also of the Minister of Justice, and final clarification and assessment of political responsibility is not possible at the beginning, but only at the end of the Committee of Inquiry. It's perfect! [[Abg. Obernoster: Why do you do it before?]] It's perfect! Why we still need this special meeting today has something else to do with. We do not prejudge the work of the investigative committee, but – it has already been referred to by colleagues Krainer – it is a document from the criminal record with order number 413. There is nothing in it about the BAT affair, about the house search, about possible illegal actions, but there is in it: A person from the BAT – I quote – said that a suspension of the BVT in the Bern group is in the room. In order to face this, the BAT would need a damage analysis which could be presented to the partner services. So, and now I'm saying something about this document. – This is a document from the BAT-Strafakt of the Public Prosecutor’s Office of Economics and Corruption. This document should be available to the Committee of Inquiry. The publication of this document refuses the Minister of Justice. We haven't gotten it from the Ministry of Justice to this day! I therefore personally presented it, because it is a crucial document for the Committee's work and because it makes one clear – and there was a reply from the Minister of the Interior today very instructive: [[Abg. Rosary: How every answer!]] ==References== In June of this year, the Minister of the Interior was personally informed that 27 EU Member States plus Switzerland and Norway were about to exclude Austria from the Bernese Club. What is the Berne Club? – The Berner Club is an informal meeting of the most important European intelligence services such as BVT and forms the so-called Counter Terrorism Group. This is the only association at European level to coordinate joint actions against terrorism at the intelligence level. There's all the information. In this way, Europe protects itself from jihadism, from right-wing extremism, from terrorism and many other threats to public security. [[Abg. Rosary: And left-wing extremism!]] Now imagine: In June of this year, due to the activity of an existing Minister of the Interior, Austria was almost opposed to being excluded from international cooperation to combat terrorism, because the partner services were rightly concerned that the Minister of the Interior and his party were a dangerous leak in relation to the most secret findings of intelligence services in the fight against terrorism. [[Call the SPÖ: Unbelievable!]] [[Abg. Rosary: That's incredible because it's not true!]] [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] This is an extraordinary situation. Test You once thought of something like that! This does not concern us as Members of Parliament, it is not just the Ministry of the Interior, it is about the security of every individual person in Austria! If the international intelligence services, if our partner services, because of the activity of the Minister of the Interior, announce cooperation, then we are blind and deaf in the fight against terrorism, then we learn nothing more, then we are isolated, then we no longer know the dangers. And those who don't know the dangers can't fight the dangers either. That is why it is important that there is this special meeting: because danger is in delay because each day Herbert Kickl as an interior minister continues to damage the Constitutional Protection. [[Congratulation with the list of mushrooms and with representatives of the SPÖ]] We will look very closely at the Committee of Inquiry as it was under the EIA and whether there has been political abuse of the Constitutional Protection by the EIA. Some of them suggest that. But even though the EIA has damaged the protection of the Constitution, the EIA has not threatened to destroy the protection of the Constitution. That's something completely different. For the first time in the history of constitutional protection, all constitutional protection is at risk in its importance for the public security of Austria. And that's why we're here! That is why one thing is not only necessary, but also a matter of course: a request from Mr Krainer, Mr Krisper and myself, which I am submitting with it; it is very short and indispensable: motion for a resolution by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, Mr Stephanie Krisper, Mr Peter Pilz, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Minister for the Interior is hereby approved by the Federal Minister for the Interior of the Federal Republic of Germany in 74 para. 1 B-VG by express resolution of the National Council failure to trust. “ There is no alternative to this mistrust! [[Abg. Rosary: Oh yes!]] If the Federal Chancellor is unable to make it clear to the Minister of Justice that he is no longer in a position as a security risk to the Republic of Austria at the head of the Ministry of the Interior if the Federal Chancellor is no longer able to fulfil his political responsibility for the sake of coalition loyalty, there is only the Austrian National Council that can protect public security from Herbert Kicklschütz. [[Abg. Stefan: This is intellectually unreasonable!]] That is why it is necessary, as soon as possible, today as possible to remove Internal Minister Kickl from his office by a resolution of the National Council. There's no alternative! [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] I now turn to the colleagues from the Austrian People's Party. I take it seriously that you call yourself a security party, but take You yourself, too, seriously! Look, S', let's talk up! [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Höbart: But now it's gonna be funny!]] Many of you know and say it in personal conversations that Herbert Kicklauf is not sustainable. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's a fool!]] It's just a question of the time when he has to step back, and it's just about keeping this time as short as possible. [[Abg. Rosary: Who are you talking to? You don't have a mirror with you!]] Now I'm coming back to the whole affair. [[Abg. Gudenus: The joke affair or what?]] We will examine very carefully what has happened in the Committee of Inquiry, and we will start with a speech by a liberal council of states before the AfD in Thüringen. We will start where State Councillor Podgorschek has declared before the AfD: In the Austrian Constitutional Protection, cells have formed, and these cells must be dried out. – The political intention of the Freedom Party before the National Council election was clear: drying out the cells, drying out the cells in the constitutional protection. And what has happened since the takeover of power of the Freedom Party in the Ministry of the Interior is exactly that: the drying out of those forces that stand for the rule of law and the Republic of Austria, and the replacement of these forces by officials of the Freedom Party. I do not have to explain to you what this means when a party that is rightly in the vision of the constitutional protection itself, which is open to right, to right-wing extremism, which must fear that constitutional protection is very much invented by these top officials of the Freedom Party and which may also be handed over to the criminal authorities, you know what that means when a party that itself must be in the vision of the constitutional protection takes over power in the Ministry of the Interior. There have been many who have warned. In 2000, Jörg Haider wanted the Freedom Party to receive the Ministry of the Interior. Wolfgang Schüssel refused to do so at the time. One and a half decades later Sebastian gave in to the same desire and placed one of the most irresponsible acts in Austrian government history: to hand over the central security ministry of this Republic to a party with an open margin to organized right-wing extremism. [[Abg. Haider: Naughty! What are you thinking, you joker?- Oh, my God!]] That's not responsible! [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haider: That's miserable! That's incredible!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] There is only one way to ask the Federal Chancellor to do this! This is Germany's chancellor Shortly guilty of any individual person in the Republic of Austria. It is about our constitution and it is about our security, and that is why Herbert Kickl must resign as Minister of the Interior and be brought to this resignation. [[Abg. Gudenus: Stop these verbal jokers!]] We owe it to Austria! - Thank you. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] [[13:34]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e13211	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Next item is the report by Mr Duzdar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e13235	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators and spectators at the gallery! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, imagine you turn on the TV and there's a crime going on right now. To be seen is an invading house search in a building, an important authority that protects people from terrorism and extremism. This house search is carried out by police officers who usually use roads or fight drug crime. The crime continues: The order is from the prosecutor's office. The fact is, however, quite thin: Someone's writing an anonymous file, someone's taxing anyone, anyone's accusing anyone. And that alone is enough to just march in there. Ladies and gentlemen! This film is not only a bad crime, it has become reality in Austria, it has become unimaginable reality in the middle of Austria. In the middle of our country, political power is used to break down, destroy, destroy and unlovingly remove the most important security body in the state, namely the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism Control. This is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] A few days ago, the Oberlandesgericht Vienna found that these invading razzia were not lawful in the area of constitutional protection. These house searches were illegal, because there would have been other reliefs. These house searches were arranged on the basis of witnesses who had apparently never been checked for their truth content. One has not even made the effort to check, research, let alone find out. That's what employees of the Constitutional Protection have said. Apparently the pressure from the Ministry of the Interior on the prosecutor's office was so great that it was easy to get a house search. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This was not about a small house search, but about our constitutional protection, which protects us from terrorism and extremism. Now I ask you: What else does this have to do with the principles and standards of the rule of law if, on the basis of nullities, the Austrian Constitutional Protection is so disastrous that it is treated by colleagues in such a way that it is so in the face of the head, and then it is so irrantious to deal with the most secret information in our country?- Oh, my God! This is really a shame for our Republic! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I spent two days in this investigation committee, and as a lawyer I am quite used to, but that the staff members of the Constitutional Protection Committee in the surveys describe this incident so unscrupulously and horribly, I really would not have thought so. And they kept saying that they didn't think that possible in our rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's be honest: After this Rambo action, no intelligence in this world takes us seriously. We have not only become a salmon number in the world, but I even go so far as to say that we are actually cut off from important information. What was it for, the Minister of the Interior is still here today? – Only so that you can show Muckis with your FPÖ friends, only so that the Constitutional Protection ceases to monitor your right and right-wing friends! I ask you: Who pays the price for this political madness, for this rule of law disaster? – The answer is obvious, ladies and gentlemen: [[Abg. Hauser: Who pays the price for your het? Unbelievable shit!]] It is the Austrian population that cannot in fact have comprehensive protection and safety of draft protection through the paralysis of this important authority. And the most absurd thing for me is that this government, which apparently tolerates this, has the word security on its flags. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! You have the insecurity of Austria to answer, and if you, Mr. Interior Minister, have only a minimum of trouble, then you will be relinquishing today!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e13286	Please take back the expression ‘political madness’, Mrs Deputies! I would ask you to withdraw the expression ‘political madness’. [[Abg. Duzar: It's a political madness! I won't take that back!]] [[Abg. Hauser: Please? She's not taking it back!]] [[Abg. Rädler: That must be an order call!]] Mrs Jachs is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e13344	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is a bit surprising in a way that some colleagues stage an extra special session just to get enough media attention. I would also like this zeal at normal plenary sessions in which we pass laws and vote on those that really bring our country forward. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] To the Committee of Inquiry, which started this week and in which we conducted the first surveys: I think that both of us from the ÖVP and all the colleagues from the other political groups have proved that we are interested in real education, and it would be desirable that this Esprit, which was also presented in the media at the beginning of the week, should continue to exist. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As members of this Committee of Inquiry, we should be aware of the responsibility we have in dealing with sensitive data, because it is about the personal security of the individual persons we are not allowed to play with, it is about public security and it is also about the basis of trust with all our international partners with whom we cannot play. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I would also like to thank Mr Werner Amon, our group leader, who, in a case of unauthorised transmission of documents, immediately brought together all the leaders of the political groups so that they can be properly dealt with in the future and maintained accordingly. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Thank you also to the chairman, Madam President Bures, for she too has this week set an example for the importance of dealing properly with sensitive data. Ladies and gentlemen! Even though we all work for different parties, we have here sworn an oath to the Republic and have been praised to the Republic. That is why it is our duty not only to pass laws but also to comply with them. That is why it is a bit troubling for me to simply pass on sensitive documents from private files to media. You have experienced here today, as Mr Pilz has quoted live from these court cases. It seems to me personally too cheap to make political little money on the back of our secret service, only with you polish up your own image a little. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I have also noticed that questions that should have been asked in a confidential session would rather not have been asked, because a confidential meeting would mean the exclusion of the media and could not be used in the media. But, well, I take note that some of the colleagues here just need the big management. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] A word to search the house, which is also about today: On the first two hearing days, we were also able to find out a few more, and the first impression as well as the OLG decision have been confirmed. There have simply been some critical questions such as how to plan for use via Google Maps, how to transport the most sensitive data in plastic sackerln or a prosecutor who has justified the urgency of the house search, with these reasons immediately dissolved into air. That is clear, and we will do so, because 40 days of meetings are still ahead of us. Only then will we be able to make a final picture of political responsibility. Until then, ladies and gentlemen, one thing applies to us: that we clarify any irritations quickly and prevent them in the future. In addition, we also have to make a contribution ourselves, and I believe that this contribution should not always mean that we constantly criticise our BAT and not constantly make our constitutional protection worse than it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e13440	Since you do not take back your statement, Mrs Duzdar, I give you a call for order. Mrs Steger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e13469	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Honestly, I don't know exactly who to start with now – at Krainer, Krisper, Pilz or others. It is inconceivable for me, with how many untruths and allegations You're acting here in this house! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You have no interest at all in any kind of reconnaissance! You have shown this clearly and clearly here, not only today, but also in the past, you have shown it in the Committee, and this shows you with the mistrust request. You have no interest in education! What I wonder about it is: What are we going to do about this committee of inquiry? For what? You seem to know the result anyway in advance! The oppositional Triumvirate Court has already spoken its judgment – without hearing the witnesses, without really reading the files, without respect for procedural and human rights. That's all you want. They're just about one thing: You are talking about removing a minister who does not fit you politically, and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Pilz! Has You remember your own withdrawal press conference when over 40 cases of sexual harassment were accused of you? There you are completely dissolved daily eating, have complained of how unfair They are being treated, and have criticized this media and political prejudice. I was sitting in front of the TV and I thought: Thank God he understood! He has understood what such medial het campaigns can trigger. – But no, wrong thought! They flee to immunity, are back in Parliament and withdraw your political show as in the past. Nothing you have learned from your own history, Mr. Pilz! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to tell you one thing, and it has already been mentioned a few times: Your handling of sensitive files is more than scandalous. [[Abg. Vogl:... Plastiksäckerln...!]] I've been wondering – and so many in this house – for a long time: How do you always get to these secret files? How could it be that you always have all the secret files? [[Cheerfulness of his empty palms moving up. Pillow.]] The largest irony in history is: You're making yourself here today with a letter that was on and on, and for yourself, secret where it was specifically pointed out that it was secret, and say that the public was already made anyway, because you've previously played it to the public! Then make yourself up and argue that the letter says Austria is standing in front of an exclusion from the Berne Club because, you say – you at least admit that the house search was not to blame –, information, secret information, come to the public. That says just that person who plays any secret information to the public?! - I mean, that already has some irony. [[==References====External links== Pillow.]] That is absolutely absurd, Mr Pilz. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] When I look at the whole story, this exclusion from the Berne Club may have quite different reasons. Maybe they belong once? Perhaps you should really look more closely at how you always get to your secret files and whether that really really is – and not on other reasons you claim there in your layer printing. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's not the only claim you're making here untruthfully. They say, for example, Mr Leichtfried, that the EGS had come to realize that it was an attack with storm masks, heavily armed, that they had done with violence and threat. - Wrong! The witnesses clearly confirmed that it was a normal house search like any other. It's not a threat when an official says: Leave your fingers off the phone, or we'll have to use force! – This is simply an information about the legal consequences of resisting state power. A reconnaissance has nothing to do with threat or need. Every single witness has confirmed this! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the false claim that everything was illegal in the search of the house She also likes to point out that something has actually come out that there is really a fact substrate that now there is more information that the suspicion of crime against the accused has hardened through the search of the house. You're welcome to leave all of this out. But above all, because you know that you are wrong because you know that everything has been done correctly, you are now trying in some way to represent the Ministry of the Interior as the competent body. That too is just wrong. They act as if the Minister of the Interior simply needed to cut his finger and the EGS would storm into the BAT itself and forcefully carry out some house searches there. It's all so realistic, ladies and gentlemen! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Because you know that, you say now, the Minister of the Interior has put pressure on the prosecutor's office. [[Abg. Scherak: No, that's what the Minister of Justice says!]] [[Abg. Rosary: No, the Minister of Justice does not say that! Investigate! That's different!]] Please explain to me how that should be possible at all! Explain to me how to put pressure on a team – this is not a single poor, new prosecutor – to put pressure on five people who work in it, who are not only prosecutors since yesterday, who are all absolute professionals who have been working in this field for years, who specialize in official and corruption crimes, who are also specifically trained to deal with pressure situations – including political ones – who have no extra reporting obligation to the Ministry of Justice to exclude any political influence! Faith You serious that it's so easy to put these people under pressure from experts? That's where I have to ask you seriously: How strange are you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition? [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Minister of the Interior has already said it: What you're doing here is printing glass, it's a scandalous perpetrator-offering conversion that no human can understand at all. [[Abg. Rosary: That's it!]] You mix skills, you seem to have no idea of any constitutional division of competence! Overall – summarizedly – the only damage that Austria is causing has been caused by your statements and not by the perfectly correct conduct of our Minister of the Interior, who has kept to the laws on the spot. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I know the population knows, everyone who thinks, knows what's behind it: The only reason why you're holding this show here is that there's an interior minister here who doesn't ideologically fit into your world picture, that there's an interior minister separating asylum and immigration, that there's an interior minister who finally provides for law and order in this country, an interior minister – and this is particularly disturbing to the Reds – who shows with his actions what you've been missing out on in recent years! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: (in the direction of ÖVP wise) The Interior Ministers are...!]] He shows like a mirror image Your mistakes in the past are bothering you and that is why you are holding this show here! There is no other explanation for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e13648	Ladies and gentlemen! At this point, I would like to welcome the President of the National Council of the Swiss Confederation Dominique de Buman, who took place on the visitor gallery. [[General condolences.]] [[The said person and the two accompanying mandates shall rise from their seats.]] With him came national councillor Walter Müller and stand Alex Kuprecht, who had already sought the exchange of views with the parliamentarians yesterday and today also attended our extraordinary National Council meeting. – Welcome, Swiss colleagues! [[New general appeal.]] We are continuing the debate. I call Mrs Griss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e13693	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say to my previous speaker: So the search for the house was not normal, because there is an investigation procedure for the need against the head of the EGS. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] – You’ll see what comes out, but I wouldn’t say “all normal”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] This Razzia in the BAT, which has already been described in detail today, has not only damaged the BAT permanently, but, in particular, I am sorry, it has also been disputed by the economic and corruption prosecutorship, an institution which is of crucial importance to the rule of law. [[Call to the FPÖ:We have heard: Arbitrary prosecutors]] In 2011, the WKSTA was set up because it wanted to carry out major economic procedures and corruption procedures properly, quickly, efficiently. Two major changes have been made to the WKStA – compared to other prosecutors – for this purpose. One is that reporting was restricted, and the second is that WKStA employs experts, economic experts and IT experts. This should enable it to identify faster and more efficiently. Unfortunately – and you can see that now through these Razzia – you have stopped half way. Then: What does this Razzia show? – This Razzia shows that the expertise in the WKSTA does not exist to the extent that it would have been expected. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Rosary: That's cool! That's cool: that the expertise does not exist to the extent!]] Otherwise, it would not have been possible for the danger of remote deletion of data to justify the urgency of a house search, a reason that experts – it has already been quoted today – have called “weakness”. I'm not an IT expert, but when I heard that, I thought: I don't understand. It is about the fact that data that should have been deleted has not been deleted, and every click on the computer is recorded in minutes. Where's the problem then? If the data had been subsequently deleted, only the condition that should have been made in itself would have been created, and one could have tracked when and by whom was deleted. Unfortunately, I also have to oppose Mr Amon, because of the correspondence and the emails that have now been sent to the committee of inquiry. I do not understand at all what the committee of inquiry needs these documents. No human has ever claimed that the BAT would rightly own any data from the Lansky firm. That is, all the data of the Lansky firm, which is located there that are not deleted, is wrong there. This does not mean that what is the content of this data. [[Congratulations with the NEOS, as well as with representatives of SPÖ and List Pilz.]] NEOS will therefore continue its efforts to ensure that these data are not available to the investigative committee but are resold. A second one has also shown these Razzia: The Public Prosecutor's Office needs its own investigative unit. It is probably not far off when one says that at least the deployment group to combat street crime was not ideally suited to carry out this house search. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It was about ensuring data, but as we have already heard, the officials of the EGS have not even included the necessary containers in order to be able to transport the data media. [[Abg. Jarolim: Urpeinlich!]] However, what the economic and corruption prosecutor's office does not need is an extension of the reporting obligation – because no one knows whether history would not have been exactly that way, the Ministry of Justice would have known before. Why did it go wrong? – It has gone wrong because, apparently, there was not enough expertise in the economic and corruption prosecutor's office and because, in order to quote the Minister of Justice, a "exploratory pressure" was created. [[Abg. Rosary: This is actually unheard of! That's really unheard of!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: With all appreciation, but that's already violent what you're here now...!]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, it can be said that the prosecutor should have resisted this and perhaps even the judge should have inquired again. But this is easier said than done in the circumstances as they are with us. The WKStA and the public prosecutors are still generally subject to the Minister of Justice, a member of the government. [[Abg. Belakovich: But? But go?]] But what we need is an independent state attorney. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Stefan:... completely independent! As independent as the ORF!]] We also need a correspondingly equipped prosecutor's office – not only the WKSTA. It is absolutely unacceptable for the rule of law that investigation procedures should last indefinitely or be discontinued despite massive suspicions, because too few prosecutors have to deal with too many Causen. For the rule of law, for the security of the population, these investments in the prosecution are absolutely necessary, the run police are certainly not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e13883	Mrs Zadić is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e13902	Mr President. Estimated representatives of the government! High house! And again we are gathered at a special meeting to talk about the safety of Austria again. For the third time, we're sitting here together, and that's a single reason: The Committee of Inquiry finally brought light to the dark this week. [[Abg. Rosary: But is the committee already done? Is he out yet?]] We have finally been able to clarify what actually happened during this illegal house search. We have gathered here to finally clarify your political responsibility in this regard. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Minister of the Interior, you like to stage yourself as someone who takes the concerns of the citizens seriously. Your party also calls you the best interior minister in the Second Republic. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's right! You're right!]] [[Abg. Stefan: Bravo!]] [[Abg. That's right!]] But do you really care about the security of this country or do you not rather put your party policy objectives ahead of security? Are the objectives of the FPÖ more important than the security of this country? [[Abg. Stefan: The objective of the FPÖ is the security of this country! It's covered!]] I would just like to say once again what it is about: It is about the constitutional protection of our country's most important security authority. The core competences of constitutional protection include the fight against terrorist and extremist networks and the fight against organised crime. Constitutional protection is essential for the security and reputation of Austria. And you have been at risk of this security and this reputation, Minister of the Interior, over the last few months. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] We were able to clarify the danger of security and the reputation of Austria after two meeting days in the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, then let's stop, then we already know!]] We – we and the public as well – have finally received answers to the questions you, Minister of the Interior, have refused us for weeks. We finally get answers that are quite different from what you've told us in recent months. At each special meeting you have confirmed that the Secret service super-cooperates with all other intelligence services and intelligence services in Europe. However, it has already come out after two session days, that this is not the case at all. Since February of this year we have asked you to know what damage the security authority has done by this illegal house search, which damage the security authority has done by the house search initiated by you and your ministry. We hear again and again: No, there's no harm. At the last meeting of the Examining Committee, we found that the Bern Group was in a position to exclude our BAT from cooperation. What does this mean for Austria? – This means that the most important security authority in our country no longer gets all the information, it means that we can no longer resist extremism and terrorism. I would like to say three things briefly because, in reply to the urgent question today, you have given quite different answers than we could get them in the Committee of Inquiry: The house search was illegal. The Oberlandesgericht has clearly stated that the search for the house has largely been unlawful. The independent judicial system has found that, and you ignore this decision here. They even publicly referred to the decision as foreign to the world. [[Abg. Belakovich: You will still be allowed to say your opinion!]] They consider the decision to be foreign to the world and therefore take a decision on independent justice. You also repeatedly deny that you have commissioned this search at your Secretary-General. After the convoy handed over by your Secretary General to the Procuratorate has not led to the success you wanted, employees from your cabinet have contacted witnesses. They've been talking to witnesses from your cabinet. You first presented a witness to the prosecutor's office after it failed, you presented a second, and after that you did not reach out, you presented other witnesses, but you did not choose the actual service route – contact with the Minister of Justice. You simply ignored that. A third point, which is very crucial and which has also led to the fact that this search for the house has expired as it has expired, is that an entirely inappropriate unit has been drawn up. It was not switched on the Cobra, nor was it the Federal Office for Corruption, no, you have stimulated, so your Secretary-General has encouraged an entirely inappropriate road unit to carry out such a sensitive house search. Why, then, was this unit so unfit for this house search? – Staff in the Investigation Committee have publicly reported that they were completely scared and scared during this house search. BAT employees have reported that they have never experienced such a house search during their many years of experience, and they have not been able to imagine that such a house search in a rule of law is still possible. [[Abg. Rosary: Yes, thank God!]] [[Abg. Worm: Then you can get used to house searches!]] But after you've seen that the house search might have been a bit overwhelming, now you're trying to clean up at the Minister of Justice. [[Abg. Belakovich: Who was responsible for the house search?]] During the last two meetings, the Examining Committee has shown that the BAT is at best limited in its capacity to act and that international cooperation with the partner services is simple and is not working decisively as you have sold it to us over the past few months, Minister of the Interior. That is why we have tabled this motion of censure today, and I ask all of you and ask you to protect us from the greatest danger to the security of this country and to agree to the motion for a reluctance against the Minister of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14069	Mr Werner Amon spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14093	Madam President. Mrs. Dr. Griss said that the Committee of Inquiry did not legally possess the so-called Lansky data. I am actually correcting the fact that investigations against Dr. Lansky have been conducted for § 256 StGB, that is, because of espionage to the detriment of Austria, and that this file stock is available in Upper Austria. It states in the decision that files and documents to the extent of the subject-matter of the investigation must be made compulsory. I quote from the letter from the judicial body that Lansky’s data ‘expressly a subject of investigation of the BAT investigation committee’ is ‘and therefore there was no margin for the investigation document (as part of the investigation procedure in the Causa BAT) to be retained from the investigation committee’ – therefore it is also clear that the Committee does not have the files unlawfully in its possession, but that it is fully in conformity with the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14123	Mrs Dipl.-Ing.in Bißmann is the next speaker to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14163	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! Dear Members of the Federal Government, I appreciate that you have appeared so many! Federal Minister Kickl! Ladies and gentlemen! Why are we all here? – To ensure freedom, democracy, security and rule of law in Austria. Now I am more free than I have dreamed of, as a citizen and as a Member of Parliament, neutral, party-free, without a club, but with rapidly growing citizen group. It grows and thrives, not least thanks to the work of my very team. – This is here today, most of which are voluntaryly active due to the circumstances. Thank you! What about the new freedom in Parliament? I am looking forward to further great cooperation with colleagues of all the political groups, so that we can make a breakthrough in real democracy and the ecological transition in this country. So and now on the real topic of today's session, the BAT scandal, to which Members and experts contribute in the U Committee, in particular, by trying to bring light into the dark in the sweating of their faces. Most of us know the facts about the BAT affair – which are not in the U committee like me – only from the media. Let's be honest: None of us know the whole truth. But you don't need to be a security expert to realize that something has gone very wrong here. What do people in this country think about the BAT scandal? I have already announced several times, as neutral Members from now on, that they will be the voice of civil society and that their voice will be heard by me here in Parliament. The first citizen's word message reached me on the post office, a very old-fashioned letter with a postage stamp from Ireland: To citizens' vote MB, for handing over to Federal Minister for the Interior Herbert Kickl, citizen post box 1, Bißmann, 1010 Vienna, sender: your cousin Daniela. "#Brieferl No. 112 – A frog and a scorpion’: “Dear Cousin Herbert, what were we as a family quite proud of you when you were praised in December. Goa just bad, some thought. At the time, however, I felt that the confusion with you as the Minister of the Interior of Joy would do a very short break." [[Abg. Rosary: Is this now part of the Bachmann Prize?]] “If you were then, 9th. November, in the speech of Christian Kern at least the form would have clap in half, perhaps I would never have started with my letters. But not even having the propensity to hypocrite, that was already the first sign of the upcoming indifference. Your past-time idea of the roded police may seem amusing at first sight. But I looked at it extra. The horses are not planned in the sacred government program! Your FPÖ, the so-called ‘party little man’, produces one crash and one case after another. However, what nobody is surprised about – because of the intellectual weight class. But let's just leave it all aside and we'll rejoice at the good news for the employees of the BAT: the next few years could be calmer than is good for our country. Because the other intelligence services have no confidence anymore and do not give us anything, except irresistible weather data. Yeah, I know what you want to say again. 'Don't vote everything! These are certain media that... let’s say very incomplete representations of the actual facts.” – Quotat Herbert Kickl in the “Report” with Susanne Schnabl on 26 May. June. [[Abg. Ries: Does that belong to the matter?]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Let's write our own letter!]] “But these media are also annoying with their intrusion, aren’t they? Above all, the Washington Post seems to me to be a particularly ‘know’ medium. These are probably no longer even valid rumors that have been published there. But in spite of the whole mess that is now being transported to the light by the investigation committee, I have to protect you explicitly. You can't do anything for it. It is like the parable of the frog and the scorpion. The frog doesn't really want to carry the scorpion over the water on the back, because of fear of being stubbed. On the first occasion, the scorpion nevertheless rises and explains to the frog: "What did you think? I am a scorpion, that lies in my nature.” “So I wonder as an interested citizen: could or did the frog, in our case the patron saint of all route closures Sebastian Kurz– could – or did he not want to know which nature is a scorpion? [[Abg. Belakovich: This is not a reading exercise in there!]] Non-Cans testify to inability, non-will of Amoral. By the way, both are not an option for a chancellor.” [[Abg. Lausch: Is this an application for the SPÖ?]] “In this sense, I wish you a cheerful philosophy of whether the nature of the frog and still a lot of fun in the ministerial saddle – as long as you can stay. Greetings, cousin Daniela’ [[Congratulations on SPÖ Members and Pilz List.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Kindergarten!]] [[Abg. Lausch: (in the direction of SPÖ) That would be great for you!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister! I leave the letter of your cousin uncommented, but a picture appeared to me while reading in front of the inner eye [[Abg. Haider: There’s laugh g’ get while reading!]] There's never been a scorpion that turned into a frog. However, they could remove the poison from the stem and transform it into an antitoxic fluid of human, right-wing politics and state masculinity.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14325	Next item is the report by Mr Maurice Androsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14346	Madam President. Government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the TVs and listeners here in the hall! ==References== This year, a house search was conducted in the BAT, in the intelligence service of our Republic, where the most important intelligence activities are carried out. This one has aroused great attention. Mr Amon has said that he is evaluating this search for the house and the use of it as superfluous. There we are d’accord, that was overwhelming, but we have to ask ourselves why this house search was actually overwhelming and what the previous story is about it. The history is that the Minister of the Interior with Mr Goldgruber along a party axis has found a leader – in the EGS – who obviously insists on carrying out such missions. The EGS is a unit of action that does great work that protects us every day on the road from organized crime and from addiction crime. The fact that the officials are doing great work must also be underlined here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ries: Look!]] These are ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, who have clearly been pushed into this house search without knowing how sensitive this area is, without knowing what they will find. The investigation committee even noted that they did not even know exactly what to look for or what to look for, because a suspicion has been constructed with remote extinguishings and stories that were told that had neither hand nor foot. This has led to the last end of the house searches, all of which have been declared illegal except one. In reality, these officials are also victims in this situation. Mr. Interior Minister, you have instrumentalized them to get into the intelligence service, according to BVT – not sensitive, but loud; not what you are saying now: it's about intelligence, and there we have to be very careful and sensitive – in order to get information for an investigation process. – It is important that there is this investigation procedure, that is true. You are involved, and I also blame you for the fact that there has been this dynamic outside. They bear responsibility for Austria's reputation on the ground in the intelligence sector. That's your responsibility! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This applies to all civil servants who are classified and serving, as far as I know so far, except for Mr Oberst Preiszler. The public prosecutor, as we know from media reports, is clearly opposed to the finding, because he has acted in a special way, which normally does not correspond to a house search; that is what I have to look at separately. But the essential thing is that officials had to find out against their own police colleagues, without having been sensitized for it, without knowing what really is at the heart of the matter. [[Abg. Rosary: The next time the German army is supposed to come so that it is not its own colleagues!]] They have been politically instrumentalized. That's the fact. Mr Amon! You said today that you did not understand why this session is so important here today and why we need an urgent session, a special session. – I tell you why we need them: because you are actually inactive, dear ÖVP. You've been watching this Minister of the Interior for months, and we don't want to. If this special meeting was not available today, it would continue to do so. You won't be active. They gave him an advance of confidence. I also agree with you to give the colleague of government a confidence advance, to give the partner an advance of confidence and to say: We hope the work has been done well. It may be. But they have been warned of what is going to happen, dear ÖVP, and that has happened. And you watch it every day without any reaction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The investigation in the Committee of Inquiry is important, which will also go on and cover many issues, but: Get active at last! This Minister of the Interior must be removed from office today to prevent the threat of the Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We do not have a minister, who is the chief state minister, we have a minister who is threatening this Republic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14425	Mr Gabriel Obernosterer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14449	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and at home in front of the television screens! We have already heard that it is today the third special meeting on the subject of BAT, but I also know that in plenary we have decided on the course of this committee of inquiry, the time frame. And how does the time frame look? – Next year in September, today in about 12 months, the final report of the Committee of Inquiry should be presented and discussed. And now, a year before, after two meetings, after six of them – there will be about 40 meetings, there will be about 100 people coming to this committee – there is already a very clear assignment, which was going on, who was guilty, who was not in order and who had to step back. Now really tells me: Do you know what you're doing with this procedure? It is not a matter of us sitting there for a whole day now, but of hearing what the people outside of this committee of inquiry, which is a serious committee, which is also important, says when it is put into ridiculous: [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] He's unbelievable. They say outside, that's nothing but a political theater. This is the opinion you have produced with your process in the populace outside. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] About the Much has already been said about the content. Two days ago, on the second investigative committee day, I stayed in the press foyer and listened to each group leader, what his opinion on these two days was, and that was exactly what I said earlier: SPÖ, Pilz: whoever is to blame, why who is to blame, all of this; so basically, when it happened after these reigns, we no longer need to sit together at all. During these two days a person said that part of these house searches served to secure the Lansky data. And all of a sudden, since yesterday or yesterday, the discussion is high, that there is no justification for these Lansky data being there. – I am talking about the discussion; on the content we have heard Mr Amon, who has already explained the legal person. – They have to be sent back, and this of course supports the SPÖ, the entire opposition. And here, yesterday at 5:15 am I get – I know Mr. Lansky, that I tell you very honestly, personally not; he has always accommodated me in the investigation committees, in whose fourth I am already sitting, therefore I know this name, so he is relatively strong, this name – the first time by Dr. Lansky an e-mail: Mr Obernosterer, I turn to you with the urgent request that the illegal state regarding my data be returned - and finally there is: In the sense of the Austrian rule of law, I ask you to follow my concerns as soon as possible. – This means that the data should be returned. What is so important about the data? Why did they get such a value at the moment? Why does the SPÖ defend the need for these data to be returned? Why are these Lansky data covered by the Investigation Committee? I once again Googleed yesterday, but it has already been known: Lansky was a candidate for the SPÖ three times during the National Council elections. At the time, he was the head of the staff committee for the chancellor and probably also legal adviser to SPÖ. Now, when I listen to Dr. Pilz from the Pilz Party and Dr. Krainer from SPÖ, and when I know how important it is to them that all the data must be provided, which there is a shout there when a line is too much blackened – and that is also true, we need all the information – and if the same persons now say to the data of someone who is named so that his data is secured in the search of the house: [[Abg. Belakovich: Krainer is less doctor and more cranes!]] We do not need this data, we are sending it back again, because that is correct!, I ask you, Minister of State, one: Look You can also look at this precisely why it is getting such a value at the moment! And something I say to you very clearly about the safety of Austria: The fact that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world is not a matter of course. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That is what our past governments are responsible for. It's not by itself! Let us be proud that we can live in such a secure state! And I know something, too. I am not afraid that Austria will not remain so secure under this government and under this Minister of the Interior. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14521	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Markus Tschank. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14546	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ and ÖVP.]] – May I start, or do you have a word, Mr. Collegue? [[Call the FPÖ:College Jarolim does not know where he is yet!]] High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! Mr Leichtfried, perhaps at the beginning for you: A Minister of the Interior of this Republic does not lead to house searches. De lege lata is really a nonsense what you're trying to do here. Apparently, the opposition here in Austria has only one objective, namely that laws no longer apply, that suspicious facts are no longer displayed, that the prosecution ultimately no longer fulfils its legal obligations and duties. We already knew about the SPÖ, because you were not willing and unable to comply with the relevant asylum laws and to stop illegal migration in the last government. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call at the SPÖ:Who was the Interior Minister?]] Once when one eye pressed, one looks away: People in this country simply don't want that anymore. This state – and that's what people want! - it's supposed to work. Suspects should be investigated. It is intended to clarify possible crimes, especially when it comes to the BAT, ladies and gentlemen, because this is about the security of Austria, and that is why we also need to maintain a high level of sense of duty. And then, if a seemingly poorly informed parliamentarian in the ORF claims that the house searches are raid-like acts, an attack on the BAT, and it is mainly about imagining against right-wing extremities in the FPÖ, I can only tell you, Mr Krainer, that you are imagining. Their fantasies are no longer bounds. The allegations you make in media are inconceivable and simply false. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have not only distanced ourselves from any form of extremism, whether it was right-wing extremism, left-wing extremism or the danger of terrorism, we strongly oppose it. You can't let that sit on you. I would also recommend that the Minister of the Interior take legal action if such things are articulated in such a large media forum. The topic of compulsory notification: Those who show an injustice are today defamed by the united opposition to the worst. The Secretary-General was obliged, as representative of the Supreme Security Authority, to involve the Procuratorate as soon as possible, to hand over the documents and to appoint substantial witnesses. He has done this properly, and I am more than grateful to him as a parliamentarian for showing such incriminating facts and handing over to the investigative authorities and not looking away. What would have been the alternative, ladies and gentlemen? If the Secretary-General hadn't shown this, what would you have accused him of today? – You would have accused him of abuse of office, he would have failed, and that would have been right. So please read § 78 Criminal Procedure! These are the legal bases that were used. Today, investigational pressure was also the subject of investigational pressure on the public prosecutor's office. This term of technician is not at all available in this relation. This is a legal term that does not exist. It doesn't exist! It's just an invention that comes from your mind, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If anyone has a suspicion or a suspicion of a suspect, if any citizen has a suspicion and goes to the police and shows this, has he put pressure on the police because he asks them to start investigation? [[Abg. Krainer: Ask the Minister of Justice!]] The BAT-Causa and above all the house searches have been properly processed by many prosecutors, approved by judges, one has to say. I can't recognize any pressure to investigate, and above all I can't see that the prosecutor's office or jurisdiction had shown a lack of professionalism. In my entire career as a lawyer, I have not yet experienced at all a public prosecutor and no judge who has been put under pressure by an onslaughter, ladies and gentlemen! There's only one thing like that in your imagination, and that, I think, belongs to it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Gretchen's question has already been discussed today: Is there a chain of instructions between the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of the Interior and the Public Prosecutor's Office? – Of course there are not! There's no precept. This is a fairy tale that you give the best here, and you must honestly say, from separation of violence, from division of violence, Mr. Colleague, you have never heard anything. At the next Sunday you will probably claim that the Federal Minister has given an OGH judge an instruction and the OGH judge has therefore so liked the judgment. – That sounds like it in my ears. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Still on these decisions of the Oberlandesgericht concerning house searches: In almost all decisions a initial suspicion was established, and the initial suspicion is the basis and condition for a house search. Of course, we can talk about proportionality. If the courts then decide – and I am not happy with that – that the procurement of the evidence sought should have been carried out on official assistance, I must say: This is not particularly close to life, because, as you know, the director of the BAT has also been involved in these topics and also the BAT's senior authority. If this had been done by means of official assistance, of course this would have meant a very likely suppression of evidence or a loss of evidence. So it is required of an accused person to voluntarily follow him out of defamatory evidence. That this is a bit too much, ladies and gentlemen, I do not, above all, need to explain to the lawyers among you. Finally, I would like to say: This U-committee has the objective, and that is the only political goal, and this must also be said to the people to throw a impeccable Minister of the Interior with dirt, which has nothing to blame for on this matter. The investigations of the judicial system do not fall within its competence. - You know that. The Minister of the Interior does not lead to house searches. - You know that. The Minister of the Interior does not approve of house searches. - You know that. And yet you are constructing a special class slander campaign and want to achieve one: the political damage of the Minister, who finally implements the laws properly, who increases the safety of the population step by step, and the negatively determined or criminal asylum seekers – and this is particularly hurt to you – is also the task of the Minister of the Interior. [[Objection to the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can't deceive the population, the population is far too smart and will also see through this game. In this sense, we will be meeting further meetings in the U Committee exactly with this line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14660	Mr Krainer spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14684	Madam President. Mr. Tschank has just claimed that the accusation that an investigation pressure had been put on the public prosecutor's office by the Minister of the Interior or his office would have escaped my mind. I'm actually correcting: This is the spirit of the Minister of Justice of Moser. He has also commissioned the Public Prosecutor's Office to carry out such investigations. Just to remember: This is the former club director of the Freedom Party in Parliament, also known as “Plastiksackl-Joe”, because he always the - -
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14705	I believe that this is no longer in connection with the actual correction. [[In the case of the SPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Krainer.]] Mr Nikolaus Scherak spoke as the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14738	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Obernosterer, perhaps very briefly: I appreciate you for your tourist expertise, but if you ask here the question where the problem is when 500 000 emails from a law firm are lying around somewhere, I have to say: We have a massive problem with the rule of law, and this should also be considered by the new EIA. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] That is why the President of the Barbarella has spoken. Ask your colleagues who are lawyers! That's a massive problem when such emails lie around somewhere. I'm not with God a friend of lawyer Lansky, but this is damn dangerous to the rule of law. Why are we here today, and why is it so urgent what we are discussing today? The question is to what extent confidence can still be given to the Minister of the Interior. Mrs Steger has previously tried to explain what the constitutional principles are and that we are doing a pre-judgment. I am not a court, I cannot prejudice the Minister, but the National Council – and that is the task of the National Council – can express mistrust to a minister – and the Minister is responsible for us – if the appropriate trust is not given. The question now is why there is an investigation committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] I can say very clearly why I personally have no confidence in the Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. Steger: Because he's from another party!]] – No, not because he's from another party. Now I'm not the big Herbert Kickl fan, that's obvious. The question, however, is how he has behaved in recent weeks. It is also less about the outcome of the investigation committee's investigational investigation, but about the way in which it has dealt with these accusations. That is why, of course, I am going to vote in favour of this motion of censure today. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I explain it in detail: First, we come to the question of how we stand internationally. You meant that you said according to best knowledge and conscience, it's all okay, there's no problem at all, we're not isolated internationally, and you only came up later when this letter was written that we may be suspended from the Bernese Club. The question behind this is how to respond. It may be that you did not know in the situation that we are gradually being isolated internationally. The question, however, is, whether you somehow feel that this is unpleasant, and that is done so fluently by you, as follows: Well, now everything's good again, it's all unproblematic. [[Abg. Rosary: Because it is true!]] The same thing is the case with the investigation pressure. Mr Rosenkranz! We talked almost bilaterally before, and you meant that the Minister of Justice was looking to see if there was an investigational pressure. I have been left to say what Justice Minister Moser said literally, regardless of whether he was with you before or not. His words regarding the “time in the image ” were: And that's why you have to check: How was this in connection with the date of the decision? What pressure of investigation did the prosecutor have? - Quote. That is the problem: the way in which the Minister of the Interior answers the question of the pressure of investigation and does not realize what this is an intolerable state when, in a rule of law such as Austria, the Ministry of Justice may under investigation be subjected to investigation by the Ministry of Justice, to the public prosecutor's office – in some cases, but it is about the way in which it is handled that the Minister of the Interior is here and says: The legislator exerts investigation pressure by the legislator. [[Abg. Rosary: That might be a mistrust!]] [[Abg. Steger:... has said that it is good that the legislator does it!]] A minister who, with the accusation that there may have been investigative pressure, is acting so fluently and pretends to be quite normal, I do not trust him personally. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] What also irritated me extremely, and I say that quite honestly, was the question of the employee from your cabinet, from your office, who obviously – before yesterday, I think, it was – went into this media chamber within the framework of the investigation committee. Now, of course, you can stand down and say: She's had a press card anyway, and that's why it's okay. You can do that, and probably it is therefore – purely technical – also in order that it goes in, but it is about the way in which it is done so fluffily again! Mr Innenminister, you have said that she is concerned with the whole of the Causa and also with media work in this context. If there is an internal policy journalist, we say, of the “standard” or of the “curier”, who reports about to attend your cabinet meeting and would say afterwards, after I’m also somehow busy with it, then I don’t think you’ll find it all right. [[Abg. Belakovich: But this is a difference!]] That's what it's all about, how to deal with it and how to do it in such a fluffy way. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] I find it more than annoying when employees of you sit down in the media chamber and look over the shoulder, get along with the journalist what is being discussed there. If you do so and say that after the employee had a press card anyway, at least I lack the confidence in you. Also the whole discussion about the house search, the way you react to the accusation that the remote deletion would not have been possible, that is, de facto does not respond, that is what is so annoying. I do not understand how it can be that obviously no one has serious interest in resolving this crisis of confidence, which is undoubtedly present. She and the Minister of Justice are now usually dealing with some kind of unkindness about the media. If you can read between the lines, it becomes clear how to try to push guilt back and forth. Klubobmann Rosenkranz has just said in an issue, and the Minister of Justice wants to “clean” himself there. [[Abg. Rosary: literally quoting would be good!]] - I took it out before. Wait a minute, I'll see if I can find it again and if I can read my own writing to quote it literally. [[Abg. Rosary: Cleaning is quite different! Quote completely! This is not intellectually difficult!]] Mr. Klubobmann Rosenkranz, you said in the broadcast: “But Federal Minister Moser has already been infected by the opposition virus with a alleged influence in the judicial department by Minister Kickl.” I do not know, in the crisis of confidence, in which we are currently in Austria - - - it is a crisis of confidence, Mr Gudenus, when the BAT is confronted in this way with a house search and we are getting new things afterwards. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I don't understand how to act like that. That's what irritates me so much. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] What I think is the main problem of all the parties involved – and as so often the Federal Chancellor cannot be excluded: We are now discussing this over the summer and beyond, and we are going to discuss it for even longer, and it is going to be as if it were normal, what has just happened – and that's not it! The Federal Chancellor also does not speak for this either. I mean, he recently showed how much interest he has in Austrian domestic policy. If Mr Bösch wants to march into Africa, the Federal Chancellor says he has nothing to do with it. So it is in this matter, and I don't understand. [[Consistency with NEOS and SPÖ as well as with the Abg. Zadić.]] Mr. Federal Minister, this is also the problem with you: They do not help restore confidence. You're pretending to be a normal state, what happened here. I think that is a problem, and therefore I clearly have no confidence in you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14905	Now Mr Vice-Chancellor Strache has spoken. – Mr Vice-Kanzler, your speaking time must not exceed 10 minutes. Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e14926	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It has been a very exciting special session today, one or the other a bit tragic. One has a little the impression that one has, of course, been taken out of the opposition from political motivation to this today's third special meeting, because Minister of the Interior Herbert Kicklder Opposition has been in the eye politically since the beginning. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I understand. I can also understand that one can have a completely different opinion politically, even ideologically. That is also good and true in democracy. In this case, however, one tries quite consciously to adapt him – politically motivated and, of course, there or there with false claims – with untruths and also very consciously exaggerated terms. [[Call the SPÖ:Ah? Example!]] - I'll take care of it. The claims about the BAT ultimately serve, of course, to try to discredit the Minister of the Interior and to provide the opposition a stage. That is quite legitimate, but one should also point out that it is. If calls from abroad are made, the Austrian intelligence service would be cut off from important international information, then of course this fits into the strategy. What's going on? – There is something to claim and to refer to any person that cannot be called by name. That is, it is said, anonymous persons to which one refers, or some journalistic article wherever, which also refers to anonymous persons and in which one is not prepared to mention any names – because there may be no such thing. Then one refers to a person, namely the former head of the BND in Germany, Mr. August Hanning, who, by the way, had been talking in a negative sense for a long time, because as head of BND, he was supposed to be responsible for the alleged withdrawal of the former Austrian government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] There's also a lot to explain. So this person does not necessarily recall something pleasing. He turns himself up, warns of an information exchange with the BAT and then leads himself in the “ZIB 2”, where he has been interviewed, even ad absurdum. You have to emphasize what he said: He himself stressed that he had formed his opinion on the basis of the media reports on the BAT processes and he had no indication of an disturbed cooperation between the two intelligence services. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] [[Abg. Scherak: We have this from the FPÖ!]] So what now? I know someone who knows someone who allegedly said that the cooperation was being disturbed. That is obviously exactly what we experience today and also constantly through your repetitions. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These are rumours that are used all the time again and again, completely away from all facts. [[Abg. Scherak: “Stichhalten Rauchs”!]] – “Fixed rumors”, exactly. That's how you can call it if you want. German Chancellor Helge Braun of the CDU has only today publicly confirmed the good cooperation of the German intelligence service with the Austrian Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism. He says this clearly and clearly, and that is what other services say. I think it is particularly immense if Members of the Krainer stand out today and call themselves a Vice Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior of a neighbouring country a right-wing extremist. It didn't lose anything in this house. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. It's incredible!]] That's exactly the division you know and that's just being used again and again. [[Call the SPÖ:...stud to it!]] What is the origin and the actual background of developments? – I haven't heard anything about that today. The background and origin of developments is that there have been very concrete accusations for over a year and a half. Now we are again with anonymous notes, with a paper that has apparently also been sent to media, which includes very concrete accusations to employees of the BAT, the statement of constitutional protection, and also lists. In an anonymous paper, it is pointed out quite specifically that in the sensitive area of constitutional protection, corruption is likely to occur, that secret papers that have not been lost in public are being played to the public unlawfully and by means of abuse of office, perhaps even by enrichment. There are things in the room, suspected suspicions of corruption among workers of constitutional protection, that it is supposed to have used public taxpayers for hostages to get the hostages free, not entirely for a payout, but also for a personal enrichment that should have collected something there, and there are other accusations of corruption. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's exactly what you have to take seriously. These accusations were already evident in writing long before the Minister of the Interior, Herbert Kickl, called. The further story is that, in a row, these accusations have also been hardened by witnesses there or there. We are not talking about pressure to investigate, we are talking about responsibility for investigation and the obligation to investigate such accusations in very specific areas of Austrian constitutional protection. You can't leave that in the room! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's perhaps the point of covering this, just: To cover such specific accusations of corruption has not lost anything in this Republic. No, there is a need for information, an investigational obligation and an investigational responsibility. They call it pressure. This is your home, but I'm going to come back to the term "pressure" as well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] – So far to the backgrounds. Fortunately, in our country, there is a separation of violence, a division of violence that some in this House apparently do not want to accept – for you will know it. I don't assume you really don't know this as a parliamentarian. –No, you know it of course and make claims against better knowledge, which are opposite. The division of violence makes it quite clear that there is a public prosecutor's office that is independent. I remember that many Members of this House have rightly said in the introduction of the economic and corruption prosecutors' office: Finally, there is no prior reporting obligation, but only one in retrospect. This means that the economic and corruption prosecutorship can also be determined independently without any pressure from the judicial department, without pressure from the responsible Justice Minister, and where possible where suspicions are so concrete, can also carry out house searches. And now at once you don't like that because the Minister of Justice was apparently not informed before! This is also a criticism that is taking place now, but it was good that it has been so handled in the past. Similarly, it was good that the prosecutor's office, which is independent when witnesses become present and suspects are present, can examine them in detail with its employees and at the end also determine – and has the appropriate decision-making expertise – whether the investigation results are so close and sustainable and the risk of delay in order to arrange a house search. This only makes the prosecutor's office and no one else. In addition, a judge shall assess whether it is legal and legal in accordance with the law. This is good in terms of the division of violence. No foreign interior minister Herbert Kickl can put any pressure on a prosecutor or on a judge. It is therefore simply scandalous if you repeatedly put it against better knowledge. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why we are proud and happy to have an independent prosecutorship that is not under any pressure from anyone, and not from foreign ministers. If this should theoretically take place in your image, that this can be possible, then you are right, then the officers in the prosecutor's office belong entirely in the form and are held responsible. I expect every prosecutor who is independent of being pressured by no one. That's what I'm going to assume in our Republic. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The responsibility lies there, which is the high responsibility that lies both in the judicial system and in the prosecutor's office. If the Supreme Court is right, because it is a matter of justice, then examines whether the investigations and house searches ordered by the Public Prosecutor's Office – that is, by the subordinate justice – are in conformity with the law, then it is also good and right if the Supreme Court finds that the subordinate court may have acted in excess in its competence there or there. But it was not the Minister of the Interior – and that is exactly the point now! Unlike better knowledge, the untruth is repeated again and again, according to the motto: There'll be something to hang and pick! - It's just not fair. I think you have to work that out clearly again. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] It is quite clear – and I conclude – that the elite unit of justice is the prosecutor's office and the police's elite unit the Cobra. These are separate areas, there are separate responsibilities. We have an excellent interior minister, who will ensure that we finally have more security than ever in the country. – You don’t like that at last –
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15091	Mr Vice-Kanzler, the Rules of Procedure provide for 10 minutes of speaking time. Ladies and gentlemen! The next item is the speech by Mr Reinhold Einwallner. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15129	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, if you might try to calm down a bit again! Appreciate members of the government! Mr Vice-Chancellor, it was an effort to strengthen the Minister of the Interior with your speech – that is all it was, because you did not succeed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, I think that you have imagined everything quite differently. Everything you've planned and constructed for the 28.2. and the days and weeks before, now falls together like a house of cards. It is not that there would have been nothing to find out. There were indeed accusations in the room, which are quite verifiable. The only question is why you have chosen this procedure, Mr Minister, and that can only be the following: It wasn't so much for you to learn, but you took an opportunity – you took the first opportunity! – and wanted – this is a major problem for FPÖ in particular – the data of the extremism file. You have tried to take advantage of this opportunity – not to mention the planned overcoloring of the BAT at all. [[Abg. Wouldn't you have let Mr Plessl speak? You don't have an idea.]] Otherwise, from my point of view, Mr Kickl, it is impossible to explain that you have chosen this procedure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If you were interested in information, you would have chosen the rightful path of assistance to access the relevant data and would not have invaded the BAT with a FPÖ-led police force. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] If it were for your information, you would have been interested in it if you had been researching. Then you would have known how the basics are in the BAT, for example, that it would have been impossible to dismantle this server landscape, and then you would have known how it looks with remote deletions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If it had been for you to learn and if you were interested in it, you would have been careful to deal with sensitive data accordingly. [[Abg. Listen: Please, tell us!]] Passing this all is completely different. The most sensitive data of our state protection has been transported in the plastic sack. If you were actually interested in information and not in recoloring, then you would probably have checked properly and not quickly suspended. What results do we have, Minister of the Interior? – We have the result that there is a loss of trust, a loss of confidence among the population, but also – and we have already heard this in the Committee of Inquiry – a loss of trust in long-term, experienced employees and police, a loss of trust in the international partner services. [[Abg. Listen: But you don't talk to the population!]] This may further lead to a safety risk. That, Minister, is your responsibility! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I cannot leave you entirely out of responsibility, because you are strengthening your back here in the house of this Minister of the Interior. [[call to the FPÖ]] You must examine your rule of law and see how long you can strengthen this minister in this form. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] All in all, we see: We have a real kickl gate, you could say, and I think it's time for the kickl to go. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15266	Mr Graf, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15291	Madam President. High house! Mr Einwallner, I think, has here claimed from the speaker's desk that the Minister of the Interior wanted to get to files on the detour of the house search. I'm actually going to correct that. This claim is really wrong, because the Minister of the Interior in his own place would not need a detour through a house search in order to get to all the files. [[Abg. Krainer: That's an opinion!]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would ask you to take note of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15323	Mr Graf, by your former role in this House, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure very well, of course, I accept. They must represent the facts, repeat them, and then make the correction. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] - I don't understand the whole excitement. After you have continued, Mr President, I have the impression that you still have a correction, and this requires you to present the facts first and then make the correction, and then we proceed in accordance with the rules of business. [[Abg. Gudenus: Maybe the correction takes a little longer, that can be too!]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15358	I have also actually corrected the facts. However, the Rules of Procedure also state that it may be justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15385	Mr Karl Nehammer has now been referred to the debate. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15427	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the televisions! We have heard today at the meeting a dedicated and passionate discussion on the subject of BAT. We have received a lot of information, and there is a parliamentary investigation committee to do so. This also belongs to a good parliamentary democracy. It is a good right of opposition to look behind the scenes. What we have heard from this committee is also saying that there is a constructive climate and that there is a careful leadership of the Committee Presidency, which has been confirmed by our Group leader. That is exactly what belongs to parliamentary democracy! [[Call the SPÖ:Thank you!]] However, what does not belong to me and the dignity of this House more harms than some supposed calls of call from the SPÖ and the opposition, is if the party president of the SPÖ in Lower Austria proves his political competitor with Nazi metaphors and thus makes a relativization of the greatest crime in the history of our country. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Jarolim and Mr Heinisch-Hosek]] This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I'd expect a word to do that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Maybe it all has a story. You know exactly what I mean by your chairman, Kern – your party leader, your clubman – when he speaks of the new People's Party. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Crying S' not so!]] He defames, he insults government representatives, he negates the style continuously down. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian]] There is no expression of regret. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Can you talk about the matter?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Wittmann, Mr Jarolim and Mr Höbart.]] . This is a very essential matter, Mrs Colleague, because the members of your group are constantly attacking the President of this House because of his presidency, and the dignity of the House is a good thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] Your silence, Mr. Kern, your silence, Mr. Schieder, on the incredible Comparison of SPÖ chairman in Lower Austria is bitter! [[Abg. Arbitrators make the so-called windshield wiper movement.]] This damages the dignity of the house. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Your gesture now again! That's humiliating! It expresses superiority and prepotence. I hope the cameras caught your reaction to see how you deal with arguments from a political competitor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] But that's not all: The SPÖ is now in silence at all. You don't hear anything from you when it comes to attacking the crimes of the socialist government in Romania. [[ongoing calls to the SPÖ]] These are your friends in Europe! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] There is no word to say that a socialist Prime Minister makes demonstrators slipping down, that a member of this socialist party says that demonstrators should be shot. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not true, that's wrong! Then you should listen!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I have not heard a word of indignation – no word! Deputies! [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs.]] Your calls! The volume of the SPÖ! Ladies and gentlemen at home, you will not understand. They now see how loud the SPÖ can be and how much it is hiding when it comes to the outages and crimes of the Socialists in Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] They are also silent to Corbyn, the Labour leader, and his anti-Semitic failures. Even here I hear no word from you, no word, but here you are loud, here you show with your finger, here you speak of a constitutional crisis and a crisis of rule of law. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, your silence is so loud that it shakes every heart of a democrat and shows how seriously you mean it with these accusations. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] But NEOS also demand a great deal of credibility – particularly colleague Scherak, right? – Where was your remission from the Liberal Prime Minister in the Czech Republic, Babiš, in his failures? I have not heard anything, but I hear you very often when you point your finger at the European People's Party or at the Freeman's. I didn't hear anything about it except silence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak and interlocutory calls from representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: What kind of foolish speech is that? What kind of nonsense is that? ... absolute comic number!]] Colleague Pilz – now he is no longer present in the hall – also: I wonder every time Mr Pilz is here at the speaker's desk, how he can look in the mirror. - Maybe he hung all the mirrors. But what shakes me even more is the question of how the victims of the Pilz Member who have to experience his show out here every time. When we talk about the dignity of the house, we break the silence of these processes! In fact, we are contributing to the dignity of this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15618	Mr Klubobmann Mag has to make an actual correction. Andreas Schiederzu word reported. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15651	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. My previous speaker, Deputies and ÖVP Secretary-General Nehammer, has said in several respects that there would be no word from the Social Democracy on the proceedings in Romania or on the statements and actions of Labour Party Chairman Corbyn, on the accusations concerning anti-Semitism and other incidents. It is wrong what has been said, and you can also read it: I would also ask any viewer who should have seriously broken his head on these questions to search the Internet.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15675	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have the chairmanship. I call Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15705	Rather, I am correct in saying that the right thing is that, for example, in order to be just a case of an example, Romania MP Lightfried immediately made a corrective statement or Corbyn MP Drozda made corrective broadcasts. [[Abg. Gudenus: Not enough! Too little!]] – Your problem is that you have not heard of it, Mr Deputies. It's just wrong what you claimed here, and beyond that it's not heard.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15756	Mrs Bißmann has spoken a second time. Ladies and gentlemen, you still have a 3 minute remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15774	We've been interested in what people think on the street about the BAT scandal. Then we moved out. [[Abg. Lausch: You are now reading us a letter again!]] The ladies Erika Eckl and Helga Andersch, both pensioners from Floridsdorf, were not surprised when they asked for a word for the plenary room. [[Abg. Rosary: Yes, yes, of course!]] Both had never had much to do with politics, but after a short pause they knew what they had to say on the subject. Please, Mrs Eckl, you're talking! Quote: I hardly have any opinion on this BAT affair, because I don't know at all. What data was actually stolen? Where have they been used now? Who's in debt? - I don't know. In the same way, I have the presumption that our Federal Chancellor, whom I really appreciate, has not made any statement about this. Probably because he doesn't know himself. - Quote. Helga Andersch commits Erika and has now also spoken. Please, Mrs. Andersch! Quote: The BAT affair is so complex that the normal people can no longer follow. It's said you can't trust our rule of law anymore. I have also heard from other countries that now have no confidence in the Austrian rule of law. There is such a chaos that the normal people lose the picture. - Quote. [[Unrest in the hall.]] May I ask for a little attention, ladies and gentlemen from the FPÖ? – This is the last speech you made. Mr Federal Minister, the lady quoted above is right. It is a total damage: highly sensitive data, including extremism of all kinds, seized by FPÖ Minister of the Interior Kickl and his party friend. This has even heard foreign affairs. I'm not surprised they don't want to trust us with secret information anymore. We continue to walk through Vienna, also at the Kutschkermarkt in the 18th century. Wiener Gemeindebezirk you have already heard a lot about the BVT affair. Ursula Nosko finds it scandalous and inconceivable that in Austria such a razzia could be done in a legal institution. What can the police do, Mr. Kickl? – They are expanding the opportunities ever further. How can we ensure that police and intelligence do not even violate the law? – To this end, the Organisation for Fundamental Rights Epicenter.works says: The powers of the police and the intelligence services have been increasingly extended in recent years, for example, the BAT's last with the introduction of the Police State Protection Act. Although at the time all parties were involved in more parliamentary control of the intelligence services, only competences and control were developed. It must not be possible for an domestic intelligence service to operate completely without control and supervision. - Quote. The last citizen vote today – there are many more, they are on my website to read on Facebook – comes from Aaron Walzer from the 16th century. Wiener Gemeindebezirk. He was asked in Floridsdorf at work. Quote: The Minister of the Interior Herbert Kickl has to resign immediately, because it represents a groundless fragility when a Minister of the Interior is publicly blaming his own intelligence service around the world. If an interior minister has to threaten his own people with police force so that he comes to information, it is also most embarrassing and only retiring. - Quote. [[Abg. Gudenus:... make a lecture!]] What Answers You are this citizen, Mr Kickl, Minister of State? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Where is the transparency that allows confidence in our rule of law? How do you want to become trustworthy again?
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15852	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Johannes Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e15876	Ladies and gentlemen! - Yes, three. [[Abg. Gudenus: A call from the speaker's desk?]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Watch out!]] Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. The interesting or, rather, strange speech by Mr Nehammer, of course, one must comment a bit, perhaps only complementary to all that you have listed. Of course, you know very well that we have spoken to Romania several times and have also made a clear statement from this pult that we do not want to do so. I would like you to know that what you are now holding us internationally, that we have no competence, would simply be doing here in the country: We have a Mr Bundeskanzler, who never speaks in a series of scandals and wanders around abroad. He is not heard at all, such as the Germania in Ried, which organized a neo-Nazi concert, which is certainly to be associated with parts of the FPÖ. There's no message, no answer, there's no explanation at all. Mr Bösch explains that it would be reasonable if, in North Africa – Mr. Vice-Chancellor – he meant it differently, but unfortunately it was in the text – it invaded, occupied land that benefits the country there. Did you hear any comments from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany? – He has made a servant somewhere – of course again where we are making fun of this quadrille policy internationally. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Otherwise, I didn't hear anything. Mr Höbart is making three thieves' celebrations. [[Abg. Belakovich: Two thieves were there!]] – Three thieves or two thieves or one Thieves – there's a big kick around: In Parliament, a hero is born, he's called Höbart, he's caught two thieves. Only: The thieves were not thieves, they didn't steal anything. Mr Gudenus is here. I don't know if you have an internal competition by trying to outdo yourself in such tölpelies? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I understand that one can be mistaken, but this mistake was already relatively violent, and to expose an unspoiled person to the police persecution – that is slander – and to not even apologize afterwards, I find it particularly weak. [[Abg. Gudenus: This is not slander...!]] [[Abg. Rosary: No, that's wrong!]] – Mr Commissioner, you can come out and apologize. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I don't understand the ÖVP either. Mr. Nehammer stands out here, marking the defender of the Minister of the Interior, while outside the couloirs are already being told by the ÖVP, he may be only the Minister of Sports in the future – and I do not know what Mr. Vice-Chancellor is then. I think this is embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen. You should also have a small size compared to your coalition partner. I can tell you this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, I have listened carefully and share a large part of this speech. He's right! I also give the Minister of the Interior – we have often discussed this – completely right. There was, of course, an event, why the BAT, without invoking the people there, has just marched in and then tried to break down the servers there – don't stop in the diletantic way that it happened here, because it turned out, the servers can't be dismantled; you could have dismantled the whole house and rebuilt elsewhere. [[Abg. Gudenus: This is inconceivable!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: “Invasion! ” “Opportunity”!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Say the Jarolim!]] I mean, such a diletantism must not happen. On these 40 pages, to which Mr. Vice-Chancellor clearly says, there is a suspicion: It is not you, of course, but the ÖVP, because of the ten years of activity previously in the Ministry of the Interior; I give you the right to do so. I know the documents. I've read it through, and it doesn't smell good, ladies and gentlemen! But this has only been the ÖVP, perhaps Mr Sobotka, his predecessors back to Strasser, and this has to be revealed; I will give you that right. I really wonder, though, that you are bluffing this opportunity as you did, because I would have trusted you with something other than this real scandal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the end one must be broken down from the competence situation also on the tongue, that at least members of the police units – not the jurisdiction and not the prosecutor’s office – have not been supervised by prosecutors, have been stumbled by the BAT and have seen the legal radicalism files there. [[Abg. Belakovich: There is no such thing! There is no right-wing radio file in Austria!]] There's sticks. To say that it is compatible with the separation of violence is really a shame. You should take your nose. Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would like to thank you for speaking so openly about what is to be examined today. We are truly interested in the fact that this is revealed. I'm sure there's a lot more coming out. I say this to the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP in particular. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e16080	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Walter Rosenkrärzget speaking next. You have a 2 minute remaining speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e16104	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! I congratulate this Federal Government on the fact that the united opposition actually brings together nothing but special meetings for the BAT. The government is working so grandly that there are no longer even other topics for special meetings. [[Bravorufe and congratulation at the FPÖ.]] Another congratulation goes to the Minister of the Interior! Minister of the Interior, you are referred to by the opposition as the most dangerous Minister of the Interior. But I can tell you one thing, Minister of the Interior: You will leave this House with today's vote also as a successful Minister of the Interior, because you are only dangerous for a group here, and these are the rulers sitting there. [[Abg. Belakovich: The most successful of all times!]] [[on the lines of the SPÖ]] Thanks to your work for the safety of Austrians, these parties will no longer make the right meters in this Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Jarolim, who spoke before, finally came to the point that he did not sit in the Tourism Committee at 2.27 p.m., after almost two and a half hours of this meeting. You can assess the content of his statement. But what is still happening here in total is an immense culprit-offer-return. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I do not sleep well and may not hear anonymous voices, like some who hear anonymous voices in their municipal apartment in Vienna in the evening, what happens in Austria, and some who look into the crystal ball in the Prater. [[Abg. Gudenus: Probably from Goethe!]] I do not sleep well if there are ministerial officials in sensitive areas such as the BAT who are suspected of doing something criminal. If there have been measures, a house search, which has been called overwhelming, and different, then the economic and corruption prosecution has said in the same breath that the suspicion against four officials has condensed and hardened. That's actually the fact, and it's not about the one who took that up and showed it. This is the condition that needs to be looked at here. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] I'll tell you one thing about the investigation pressure. The prosecutor's office has an investigational pressure. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] When I hear what the NEOS say, I have to say in my way: It is irresponsible to accuse the prosecutor of saying that she is willing, and to say, in the same breath, Mrs Griss, or better: nothing to say -
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e16183	You must formulate the final sentence, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e16198	There can be no political responsibility for independent justice in this House or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e16239	No one is reporting on this. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure allow Members, pursuant to § 103, to demand from the President a call for order. This possibility has been used. I have had the Stenographical Protocol brought and only now give the order for order because of course I wanted to have the protocol before making a decision. Mr. Dr. Markus Tschank, in his speech, spoke of one – I quote – “The Special Class’s defamation campaign”. Mr President, you know that slander is a criminal offence, only quite a defamation campaign, and that is why I give you a call for order for this formulation.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e16293	The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the votes. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Krainer, Dr.in Krisper, Dr. Pilz, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call at the FPÖ:Now we are surprised!]] [[15:23:56]] Decision to terminate the 2018 extraordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e16337	I have the following request: “The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary 2018 meeting of the XXVI. The legislative period of the National Council shall be as follows: 7. to be declared terminated on September 2018.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[15:24:22]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e16368	In order to allow for the immediate completion of this decision, I read in accordance with a written request of 20 members. the relevant part of the Official Protocol so that it may be deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I read: 'At the request of Mr Wöginger, Mr Mag. Arbitrator, Mag. Gudenus, M.A.I.S., Mag. Dr. Strolz and Mag. Dr Zinggl [...] the National Council unanimously adopted the following decision: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary 2018 meeting of the XXVI. The legislative period of the National Council shall be as follows: 7. To be declared finished on September 19, 2018.” Are there any objections to the version of the Official Protocol, which I have just read? - That's not the case. That is how it is approved in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure. [[15:25:22]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2018-09-07-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00038_d7e16412	I declare that 337/A(E) has been introduced at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 26 March. September, at 9 a.m., will be convened in writing. The sitting is closed.
