ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e4023	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I can welcome you very warmly and open the 41. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 39. Meeting and the minutes of the 40th plenary session. Meeting of 26. September 2018 are present in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. Deputies Christoph Stark, Walter Bacher, Claudia Friedl, Mag are reported to have been prevented. Christian Kern, Hermann Kristist, Robert Laimer, Josef Muchitsch, Mag. Verena Nussbaum, Dr. Dagmar Belakovich, Dr. Brigitte Povysil, Mag. Philipp Schranglund Claudia Gamon, MSc(WU). [[08:03:49]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e4095	The Federal Electoral Authority has received notices that the Deputies are Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz and Wolfgang Katzian renounced their mandates and Ms. Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MESso as well as Mr Rainer Leopold Wimmer were appointed to the National Council. The electorate is already in place, the members of this House are present. I'm allowed to do her fishing immediately. After reading the vow formulas and calling for names through the writing, the new Members will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I can ask the author, Mr Zanger, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e4140	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e4165	I should like to welcome Members to the House and look forward to constructive cooperation. [[General condolences.]] [[08:05:11]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e4193	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Finance Hartwig Löger is represented by the Federal Minister for Digitalization and Business Location Dr. Margarete Schramböck. It will also be announced which members of the Federal Government are present in another Member State of the European Union: Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is Mag. Gernot Blümel, MBAreise, also the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State Mario Kunasek by the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Dr. Karin Kneissl. [[08:05:41]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e4262	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may, in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e4495	I inform you that the Fourth Report of the Incompatibilities Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. I can still announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and then from ORF III. I would also point out that during today's National Council meeting a photographer will photograph for documentation purposes on behalf of the Parliament's Directorate. [[08:06:19]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e4525	According to § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 404/A(E) by Mr Bruno Rossmann, colleagues on "Climate protection – now!". Call for urgent request will take place at 11 a.m. I'm allowed to interrupt the session until then.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e4563	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to start the interrupted session again. I greet the guests who appeared at the gallery and the spectators at home in front of the television sets on the most hearty. [[11:03:57]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Bruno Rossmann, colleagues on “Climate protection – now!” (404/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e4599	We now come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 404/A(E). As this has now been done to all the Members of this House, a reading by the writing system is not necessary. The urgent application has the following wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e4892	I can give the floor to Mr Rossmann for the reasons of the urgent request. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have 20 minutes to justify your request. Please. [[Abg. Rossmann joins the speaker's desk with a thick blue book.]] - Looks like a thick book.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e4925	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Yes, this thick book is the Austrian Report on Climate Change 2014 from the Austrian Panel on Climate Change. This is the minimum that an environmental politician and an environmental minister must have read: this progress report. To agree on this special meeting, I am from your place of business, Mrs Minister. There is an action of Greenpeace in front of you. Activists are building a memorial there. The reason – you know it – is that novelties we discussed last week in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, a novel with which you want to harass environmental organisations and intimidate their members. I thank the activists of Greenpeace for this action they are doing there and here today. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] But now on the subject itself: The warnings, Mrs. Minister, are getting louder and more frequent. As well as all experts around the world have a single message: In climate protection policy, grave ends have to change. Now! A week ago, the world climate forecast presented a special report, and this special report contains alarms: The heat of earth is moving faster than originally thought. That means that we are only 12 years old in order to avoid a climate disaster. The second point is: The maximum warming of less than 2 degrees Celsius in the Paris climate agreement is not sufficient to avoid the disaster. That means it's threatening heat, droughts, floods. The consequences may also be social tensions up to wars, but also migration movements, as we have not known them so far, for example from Africa. This report concludes: The goal must therefore be global warming – or I should say better: Heterogeneity – be of a maximum of 1.5 degrees Celsius. But, Mrs. Minister, the world climate is not the only caller in the desert. There are still UN Secretary-General Guterres, who recently noted that climate warming is one of the biggest challenges of the 21st century. ==References== You said that in the “press hour” on Sunday, but he drew other conclusions. It calls on policy to finally implement measures, to introduce CO2 taxes, to eliminate environmentally harmful subsidies and to force the promotion of the transition to clean energy. And he stressed one – this is very important now, Mrs. Minister – that it is a false belief that the fight against the climate crisis is an economic burden. The opposite, Mrs Minister, is the case! Now nothing to do is by far the most expensive variant for the economy, for all people with the result that the distribution-political consequences will have. Therefore, the climate crisis is also an extremely important issue of distribution policy. Therefore, it is derived from: Now it's time to act! A wise decision has also been made by the Nobel Prize Committee in Sweden. For the first time, there was a climate economist with the Nobel Economic Prize, William Nordhaus, the The right father of the climate economy can be called because he has integrated climate change into macroeconomic analyses. He was one who, many years ago, I would say decades ago, demanded a CO2 tax as a means to counter the climate crisis. But this pattern of thinking and action has not yet arrived with the government representatives and also with you, Mrs Minister. Against this background, there are two questions. Question one: Are the current objectives and compromises at European level sufficient? Question two: Is your integrated climate and energy strategy presented in spring sufficient to respond to what the world climate is stressing? – The answer to both questions is a clear no. The EU's targets are not even sufficient to meet the Paris climate targets. – First argument. And the Austrian goals are still below these European objectives. So Austria is down there again. This climate and energy strategy, which you are so proud of, Mrs. Minister, is obsolete. This is clear from the World Climate Report. Climate researcher Georg Kaser recently confirmed this in the “Morgenjournal”. That is to say, your mantra-like reference to the climate and energy strategy goes empty. This strategy was from the beginning a pipe recorder and did not contain any measures; Aims yes, but no action. Mrs Minister, you are constantly confusing targets with measures. That's fatal. Unfortunately. There are also no timetables in it, there are no measures and there is therefore no budgetary resources either. But we need this to fight this climate crisis. With this attitude, which you have also taken in the press hour, Mrs. Minister, you continue the tradition of the impoverished and the inaction of your predecessors. If we take a look at the last 20 years, we note that all environmental ministers have come from among the ÖVP, starting in 1987 with Marilies Flemming, ending with you, Mrs. Minister. Let us now take a look at what some of these ministers have done! Drastic failure to achieve the Kyoto targets, which are known to reduce CO2 emissions by 13 percent compared with 1990. Under Bartenstein, Pröll and Molterer the CO2 emissions have not fallen, they have risen! This shows that even the first climate strategy has not been worth anything, and this also shows the value of a climate strategy when it comes from the spring of the ÖVP. Let's go on to ex-minister Berlakovich, he's sitting among us today. He once said that in the climate protection, we gurk all over the back, and he insisted that this was a cross-sectional matter. – This is a little cheap, Mr. Berlakovich. Your predecessor promised us to make an ecological tax reform. In 2015 he announced that, until today we are waiting for it in vain. This irrational behaviour, Mrs Minister, continues. What we can observe in climate policy is – I am sorry to say that – structured responsibilitylessness. You, Mrs. Minister, are a master of lip confessions, you like to formulate abstract goals, but when it comes to the implementation of these goals, you are mosquito silence or you put symbolic alibi measures, as last with the e-mobility package: The choice of electric cars when parking, the use of bus tracks by electric cars and the withdrawal of the so-called air hundred for electric cars. Mrs Minister, believe Are you all serious about reducing CO2 emissions in the transport sector? You know, traffic is that area that has the biggest CO2 emissions. These symbol measures will not allow you to achieve a sustainable reduction in CO2 emissions. It's purest cosmetics. Then there is another transport minister who takes care of it with a damp throat. He initiates the Tempo 140 pilot experiment, and you, Mrs. Minister, still support this with the argument that this would improve traffic flow. [[Abg. Jarolim: That's crazy! Absolutely absurd!]] But there is a study by the Institute of Traffic Planning of the Technical University of Vienna, which says that this can never be the case. Mrs. Minister, I have more confidence in these experts from the Technical University than in you. Her job as a minister of sustainability would be to get the Minister of Transport into the parade, to get in the parade! [[We welcome the Pilz list as well as Mr Jarolim and Mr Meinl-Risinger.]] But the list of counterproductive measures can be continued: Anchoration of the State objective Economic location in the Constitution. You'll have to call Minister of Economic Affairs Schramböck to reason. We have enshrined both climate change and sustainable economic growth at European level in Article 3 of the Lisbon Treaty. We do not need this dispassion at national level. Pipe your Minister of Economic Affairs back! It's a state target that has no value. It shows one very clearly, however, which interests you represent: Economic interests have priority over environmental protection. Furthermore, the EIA law and its innovation that we have recently discussed in the Environment Committee. There I am again at the action of Greenpeace, from which I have just come. This is a scandalous amendment because it has no other objective than to harass environmental organisations, to exclude them from participation procedures environmental issues, to blame them for extending procedures, which is not at all consistent with the facts, and to harass activists by the need to appoint names and addresses. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ and of the ÖVP, take back this amendment! [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] With all these measures, these counter-controlling measures, Mrs Minister, you show your true face. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] They represent short-sighted – I say now – economic and corporate interests. Environmental interests are subordinate to you. But we also saw this when you came back from the Environment Council and announced great success in the Committee, namely that emissions from cars should be reduced by 35 percent by 2030. This is not a success, Mrs Minister, it is actually a shame, and I am going to tell you now why it is. This is a lazy compromise in favour of the car industry and a blow in the face of those countries that have opted for higher quotas, such as Denmark, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Slovenia and Sweden. If you had made some effort, Mrs Umweltminister, it would have been possible to create a qualified majority with these countries, with the aim of reducing emissions not by 35 per cent but by 40 per cent, just as the European Parliament has decided, but without the EU representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP. A missed opportunity, Mrs. Minister – a missed opportunity during an EU Presidency, which also offers other opportunities. [[Congratulation with the list of mushrooms and with representatives of the SPÖ]] I am now going to address some of these possibilities, which are set out in the proposal. What does it have to do? – There are scopes at national level that must be used; they are not used sufficiently. That alone is not enough, it is clear to me, it also needs action at European and international level. A key measure – and here I am again with Nobel Laureate William Nordhaus – is the introduction of a CO2 tax, i.e. an ecologisation of the tax system. [[Abg. New builder: taxes! Again taxes!]] If I have understood you correctly, Mrs Minister, on Sunday at the "press hour" you gave a clear rejection to the greening of the tax system. Her statement was as follows: The tax reform will include many environmental aspects. - Oh, great! That's a no-nothing, Mrs. Minister. Sorry, I'm sorry. I have already heard these statements from Mr Löger and Mr Fuchs. We need an ecologization of the tax system, which also deserves this name. But it must also be an eco-social tax reform, because it cannot be that we raise environmental taxes on the one hand and, on the other hand, punish those whose income is low. This means that what is taken into account by the Minister of Finance in environmental taxes is once again going back to private households in the form of a climate bonus and, on the other hand, to businesses by reducing the wage-related taxes, which involve additional wage costs. It's supposed to be non-profit. It is not about increasing the tax rate. No, Mrs. Minister! If your mantra is not new taxes, of course I also ask you, or I should like to ask the Minister of Finance why this would be in favour of a digital tax. Finally, this is a new tax, but there is no mention of income neutrality. Short and good: I call for an eco-social tax reform in a volume of 8 billion to 10 billion euros, introduced in stages by 2025, and in return a return of private households and companies. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] The ETS sectors, the emissions trading sector, should remain excluded, and there must also be a hardness fund for those donors who have no alternative to the passenger car. An integral part of such a tax reform must also be the reduction of environmentally harmful subsidies. The potential is estimated at 3.7 billion to 4.8 billion euros. I don't hear anything from you, Mrs. Minister. There is the diesel privilege, i.e. the uneven taxation of petrol on the one hand and diesel on the other. There is a mineral oil tax exemption for kerosene; international flights are value-added tax-free. There is plenty of support for energy production. And there is at least a potential of 2 billion euros that you can raise here, where you can cut. We also need an ecologicalization, an ecological redesign of the pendulum fee. In this context, you should borrow from Sweden, not in the context of environmental organisations, because the Swedish example in this respect is a very well-elected but in the ecologicalisation of the tax system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] – Listen to me a little, I'll be ready soon! Sweden introduced a CO2 tax in 1990. Sweden and Austria have been growing more or less strongly since 1990, once a little stronger, once a little less strong. What we can see, however, is that in Sweden, CO2 emissions are going down significantly while they are going up in the trend in Austria. – You should study such models, Mrs. Minister! There you can learn, there you can especially learn one: Climate protection is not an economic obstacle. Of course, an eco-social tax reform is not enough, that is clear. It is not the panacea, but a central weapon in the fight against the climate crisis. At national level, there is a lot more room for manoeuvre: Increased support for the exit from gas and oil, a boost in the thermal renovation of apartments – we have a lot to catch up with –, raise energy efficiency potential, improve public transport and the public transport network, uniform tariff models for public transport; and at EU level: Strengthening own resources for the multiannual financial framework from 2021. This also means at EU level: Collection of CO2 taxes and ticket charges, taxation of kerosene – these are typical taxes that should actually take place at European level, but as long as they do not exist, they must be removed at national level for so long. We need powerful rail networks, but also a reorientation of trade policy, which does not take life's basis for people in Africa. Austria – this is my finding – is a disgrace as to climate change and climate policy. Mrs Minister, you have the opportunity, in connection with the Presidency of the Council and the progress report here – he also contains a lot of recommendations – to make Austria a climate leader, but you also have the opportunity to make Europe a part of the EU Presidency in this regard, we say. I therefore ask you to: Make Austria a climate show! Take advantage of the EU Presidency for a European turnaround in climate change policy! Time's pushing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e5055	Mrs. Federal Minister for Sustainability and Tourism Köstinger has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e5076	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Climate change is the greatest challenge of our century. We don't know that just since the IPCC report, the special report that appeared a few days ago, but the results are still alarming. The last 20 years have been the warmest since the beginning of the series in 1850. The current concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere is the highest in three million years. And if we cannot stop global warming, then the serious effect on all of us, whether it be the expansion of heat periods, the severe rainfall or even a massive dryness, will increase all of that. We have already felt this especially this summer in Austria. That is why global action is urgently needed, and we, Austria in particular, must move forward. This is also the reason why, as one of our major first steps in January 2018, we, the Federal Government, launched the decision of the Austrian Climate and Energy Strategy, the #mission 2030. We have already decided on this integrated climate and energy strategy, which will be available for the first time in this form in Austria, at the end of May this year. This was one of the first projects that this government launched. That alone shows the importance we give to climate protection. We have put forward a comprehensive public participation, including a scientifically accompanied survey here in this House. With the strategy, we have hit the cornerstones of climate protection. The aim is to reduce emissions by around 36 percent by 2030. The #mission 2030 is now implemented step by step. You, Mr Rossmann, claimed that the strategy lacks measures, timetables and responsibilities: I would very much recommend that you read the decided copy again. That is exactly what the suggestions in the public participation process were, and that is what we have done. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Another thing we did: Not only have I worked on this climate and energy strategy as an Environment/Sustainability Minister, but we have worked across the board, and my most important partner was Transport Minister Hofer. We have agreed on twelve lighthouse projects, starting with e-mobility, the expansion of public transport, building renovation and renewable heat, and biogas and hydrogen from renewable energy and other technology innovations. By the end of the year, together with the federal states, which is also a very important point, we are preparing a national energy and climate plan. Together we define how our European energy and climate objectives are achieved. We have defined clear targets in the areas of space heating and mobility as the largest areas of action. There we have the greatest CO2 savings needed, for example in the field of transport 7 million tonnes and in the building area 3 million tonnes of CO2. One of the first measures – because you spoke about the absence of any measures; we have already implemented this – is that we have put the new oil promotion action out of oil. We also preferred these; planned the year 2019, but it was already started before the summer. This is a very concrete action in which anyone who changes his oil boiler for a renewable heating system gets a bonus of EUR 5,000 from the federal government. In addition, the country's funding is still available. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It has never been so attractive to get out of oil heating. We still have around 700 000 oil heaters in Austria, many of which are very old. This is where we want to give priority to oil and renewables. One thing is also important: Large companies recognize the political signals. The OMC has announced that even as the largest oil group in the country, it will escape from the promotion of oil heating. We are thus blazing the end of the fossil age! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] With regard to mobility, we have succeeded in launching an important package of incentives to improve clean mobility. Among other things, we will lift the so-called air hundreds for clean cars. In addition, we will allow the use of bus tracks by e-vehicles, thus giving them an advantage. Here too, we are taking an example of Norway, where precisely these measures have led to great success. The new registration rate is already 40 percent, and in Austria we are 2.5 percent. A next possible step would, for example, also be the exception from the obligation of vignette. But above all, we want to call on the cities and communities to give priority to e-mobiles, clean vehicles and, as is already the case in Graz, Linz and Klagenfurt, to free parking. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We want to be a pioneer, and we will do so in the electricity sector in particular. We want to produce electricity for national demand to 100 percent of renewable energy by 2030. Currently we are already at about 70 percent of the electricity consumption – and this without nuclear current! That is where we are in the forefront of Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I hope, Mr Rossmann, that you will now listen carefully: Just Sweden, which you always take as an example when it suits you, continues to produce electricity from nuclear energy. – We will not go this way either in the future! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Aha!]] In total energy consumption, we will increase the share of renewables to 45 percent, and we will continue to pursue the objectives of the Energy Union consistently. Austria has very ambitious goals here, and we will be among the leaders worldwide. We therefore also want to put green electricity promotion on new legs. We will redefine and improve the framework conditions for the accelerated expansion of renewable energy. In the new Renewable Development Act, we will improve funding efficiency and focus on market premiums and investment promotions. The Renewable Development Act is the most extensive energy economic law project that will shape Austria in the next decades. That is why we have also agreed on a very ambitious schedule and are already working intensively with all stakeholders in the energy industry to implement it. The issue of sustainable procurement is also already decided and implemented. Of all the objectives we are working on, which we want to implement together with the countries and the communities, this is certainly also one of the very great ones that it really needs to be implemented. In the field of climate protection, the Federal Government will, in particular, set a good example for the public sector. We will change the procurement of the public sector in a sustainable way. A few days ago, we set out in the Council of Ministers the roadmap for this sustainable public procurement and consistently aligned it according to the objectives of the Climate and Energy Strategy. The potential is enormous, as the total public hand invests 45 billion euros per year. Only the example of the Federal Computers shows how much is possible here. When we switch the electronic supply to eco electricity, we save 8 800 tonnes of CO2 in the year or 3.5 million tonnes of oil. This is definitely a very good measure, with which the federal government can show that we are taking the right steps. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] A next important point is tax reform. The Federal Government has already stated in the coalition negotiations that there will be a major tax reform, which will be developed in 2019 and will enter into force in 2020. The focus of this tax reform will be the further discharge of Austrians. In addition, this tax reform will also contain environmental elements such as the removal of the own electricity tax for self-generated and consumed electricity. We are very deeply involved in the preparations and together with the Ministry of Finance we are working together on the basis of this reform. This may seem unusual to many, but we within this government understand each other in cooperation and not in the past. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] On the topic of a national CO2 tax raised by you and, for example, by colleagues from NEOS: We are the principle of discharge, not the burden on taxpayers. We know, I think, from the past already well enough that the simplest way, the tax increase, has always been chosen in Austria. This has also led us to see Austria as one of the countries with the highest tax rate in Europe. I am convinced that – please listen to me, Mr Bruno Rossmann! – that a CO2 tax within the meaning of a CO2 minimum price is only really useful at European level. [[Abg. Rossmann:...come-neutral!]] I am also very close to my colleagues, for example from France, and we are forcing the installation of a European CO2 minimum price since April of this year. We have taken the R20 summit as an opportunity to make an excuse for this, together with Arnold Schwarzenegger and other international sizes in the field of climate protection, and to bring them all to a table together. I am convinced – for example, my colleague from France gives us the right thing – that this will be the right way for the whole of Europe and not just for us here in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Because you've already mentioned it: Another important example of action is CO2 reduction and thus fleet targets for cars by 2030. ==References== In October 2018, a very important success of negotiations was achieved at the Council of Environment Ministers by all newly approved cars having to show 35 percent lower emissions, as proposed by the EU Ministers. With this proposal, we have come to terms with many countries that wanted to take a much less ambitious path. The bandwidth was between 20 and 50 percent. I know that it has been said – including you – that this must be much higher, but I can also tell you quite clearly that Germany, for example, in Chancellor Merkel's person the day before, has called all the Heads of State and Government to plead for 30 percent. Our compromise has been reached after 14 hours of negotiation, it is also Germany on board, as well as Sweden, which is one of the most ambitious countries in this continent. In view of the Special Report of the World Climate Change on Global Warming by 1.5 degrees, I consider this agreement essential and extremely important. It is also particularly important for us to work together across the EU. That is exactly what we can do with these decisions. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The same applies to our common position as regards the UN Climate Change Conference in Katowice. As the negotiator of the EU countries at the UN Climate Change Conference, it is particularly important to me that we join forces and that we are close to our agreed goals. At the climate conference in December, it will be a matter of meeting the objectives of the Paris Convention by regulating the numerous details of its implementation. The next week in Krakow will be the start of the negotiations of the Climate Change Conference, and Austria has a very special role to play by the EU Presidency. That's why I'm going to start a very extensive climate tour to win allies. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to vote with Prime Minister Lee from Singapore, who is currently chairing the Asean countries, as a joint approach between Europe and Asia. We are faced with the situation in which large states, I believe, too, you have to recognise this, or we want to get out of the Paris Agreement or question it, for example. This makes me very worried personally, and it really needs a network of ambitious countries with handshake quality. Austria and Europe will continue to be a leader in climate protection, and together with our European partners, we will be committed to the ambitious conclusion of the UN Climate Change Conference. Finally, allow me to say: What really bothers me in the last few days is the inaccurate political discourse and the choice of words, which you are showing above all. I strongly reject Austria as a disgrace when it comes to climate protection! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] With this, Mr Deputies, you are mistaken and you deny the facts. Austria is currently in the middle of the 2020 targets, but in general in the target path. Countries like Germany, for example, have already quietly and quietly adopted the 2020 goals; quite unlike us. Compared to many countries, we have only just launched a climate and energy strategy right now, with mandatory targets for individual sectors, and we are top leaders in the field of renewable energy sources. [[Abg. Rossmann: CO2 emissions are already rising!]] I refer to your statements yesterday, Mr Rossmann, and I say quite clearly to you: We're doing climate policy with people. They want to make them against the people, we do them with the population. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] And one thing I'm telling you in all clarity: We need to see climate protection as an opportunity to move forward the energy transition in order to stimulate innovation, as an opportunity for more investment and, above all, for strengthening the competitiveness of our economy. We must not forget one thing: People need to be taken with them in terms of climate protection. This must be our common concern to make people aware that there is something to do here for each individual. We want to make climate protection the largest initiative and movement in this country and not just talk, but above all act.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e5210	Mr Noll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e5231	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! I hear the words, but I lack the belief that all of this will happen as well. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What makes Austria too late in the field of environmental protection, climate policy, in the field of ecology, is too little and, in my view, does not sufficiently perceive the fundamental changes that the entire planet is facing. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] We live in a new age, we live in the Anthropocene. Anthropocene means that man has become an important factor in the biological, geological and atmospheric field and thus influences the process for the entire planet. You first have to perceive this in order to draw the right conclusions from it. We know that the proportion of greenhouse gases is increasing, we know about the changes in the landscape made by humans, which, to their extent, exceed what is causing the natural sedimentation processes today, we know about the over-acidification of the oceans and we also know about the permanent and persistent destruction of the biota. And that's what you've got to do now. Anyone who believes, with nature conservation policy, with a little e-mobil funding here to find out who does not actually understand the new thing about this development, misses the challenge of this time. The combination of species deaths, global migration and the spread and displacement of natural vegetation by agricultural monocultures represents a whole new stage in planetary development. And these effects are lasting, that is, the future development will build on them and they will no longer be able to change them. What I am now reporting to you is something new for no one, but it should still be a promising composition of what we are standing before today, and of which I believe that Austrian environmental, nature conservation and energy policy does not sufficiently perceive the scope of the problem. Let's start with the species dying! According to the World Wildlife Union, since 2007 about 12 percent of the species of birds, 20 percent of the species of mammals and 29 percent of the species of amphibians have been considered threatened. The WWF's Living Planet Index stated in May 2008, that the biodiversity on Earth fell by 27 percent between 1970 and 2005. According to WWF – and I ask you to take these figures seriously – some 34 000 species on this planet are at risk of extinction. The stocks of breeding birds in the agricultural landscapes of Europe – you all probably still know this from your youth – have decreased by almost 50 percent between 1980 and 2009, i.e. in just 30 years. The researchers at the National Autonomous University of Mexico and Stanford University have found that 75 percent of all species are likely to disappear in some time and that in the last 40 years alone half of the animal world has been wiped out by humans. We are facing climate change. The Minister has illustrated this correctly and what she said in the opening remarks can only be done in full. It is really a planetary and important task for all humanity to do something here – and to do it now. According to current scientific understanding, man has the crucial share of modern global warming, current climate change. We know that the human influence on warming according to the best estimate is about the same as the complete observed warming during the period between 1951 and 2010. According to the latest studies, it is highly likely that the warming observed during this period is more than 50 percent due to human action. Even today, if we do not close our eyes to these developments, all of us can immediately perceive these consequences: the melting of the pole caps, the melting of glaciers, the degradation of soils, that is, that the soils can no longer perceive their ecological function due to irreversible changes. We see the decline in permafrost floors. We see the rise in sea levels. Between 1993 and 2014, sea levels rose by 3.2 millimeters per year, which is 50 percent more than the average of the total 20. ==References== We see an acidification of the seas. The reduction in pH at the surface of the sea by anthropogenic carbon dioxide in the atmosphere caused by climate warming also an increase in the CO2 content of the Earth's atmosphere and the acidification of the seas. We all know the coral bleaches and we can see them. We see the change in the oxygen content in our oceans. Since 1960, the oxygen content of the oceans has decreased by around 2 percent, responsible for heating the sea surface, as this reduces the oxygen consumption of the upper layers. We see, in particular, the change in the currents of the sea, a subject which is far too little attention. And we see a use of our natural livelihoods worldwide. You all may know the so-called World Creation Day. This indicates on which day of the year humanity has spent the resources available to it on earth. To illustrate this very impressively: ==References====External links== ==References====External links== On August 8, 2016, on August 8, 2016, 8th, 2016. ==References====External links== December. We all see a very serious loss of soil. This means not only the constant sealing of our soils, but in fact a loss of soil, which is discussed internationally in the context of the Global Soil Week. We see the coming end of the oil or, for example, the phosphorus. And we see something that we hardly get into the field of view, because Austria is not a sea-breather state, namely: We'll be out of sand soon. Due to global construction activities and land conservation – for example on the North Sea island of Sylt or in Dubai or Singapore – sand is an over-used resource worldwide. Its extraction from the seabed becomes the man-made ecological disaster. The beaches around the world lost 40 meters between 1986 and 2008, so they went down. We see an overfishing worldwide, most of the resources in this area have already been exhausted. If you take air pollution, if you take the plastic problem, if you take the global warming that threatens the natural basis of life in all our environment, then we must recognize that we have a problem that is not adequately dealt with by what is being achieved here. We see the goals, they are ambitious in the #mission 2030, which also has our approval. We want more commitment, and especially in Austria we need a pleasure, a joy in environmental protection – and this needs to be made. They all remember the beginning of the separation. That was unimaginable for many, and many have said that it is not possible. In the meantime, normality is. In fact, we must make it a pleasure for people in this country to protect our natural livelihoods. To do this, we need – Bruno Rossmann has explained this in detail – a change in our policy, we also need a change in our economy, but we also need a change in our individual way of life, and we need to do so now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e5334	The honourable Member has been informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e5356	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr Rossmann, I ask you to come out afterwards and apologize for the statement that Austria is a disgrace. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This excuse is not only due to the Federal Government, which is making enormous efforts in climate protection, but also due to all the activists for climate protection. And these are not just people who hold up posters, but these are people who work day after day for a better climate in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] According to your remarks, you will almost get the impression that the Federal Minister for Climate Change is responsible. I don't think that's her. Especially in this year, it must be clear to everyone that climate change is taking place and that much of the population is affected by its impact. Now, on the one hand, it is important to make policy adjustments in order to achieve a certain degree of suspension, and on the other hand, to define decarbonisation as the main objective, a measure that can be used to combat global warming. And that is exactly the goal of the Federal Government: to have achieved decarbonisation by the mid-century at the latest, and we have set ourselves this goal in the climate and energy strategy #mission 2030. Even though some fossil fossils from a fossil time do not want to do so, I say to you: [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Tiny]] If you criticize the #mission 2030, you will unfortunately also be able to address this criticism to the numerous organisations and experts who have participated. In a global environment in which entire economies such as the USA or China adopt international climate targets, Federal Minister Köstinger has achieved a success in negotiating, i.e. a minus 35 percent reduction in CO2 across the EU. It does not count what I would like, but what you eventually achieve and bring home. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I think it is a very poor attempt by the remaining Green Group, after you have carried out the competent colleague, Bißmann, to seek a new profile here with green topics. Unfortunately, you do this in your own way, which looks so that you use activism not for something but for something. They have referred to it, a number of ÖVP ministers have been responsible for the environment in the past – as has an ÖVP minister today. Thank God, I can only say that one thing has always shaped our policy: the eco-social market economy, the link between economy, ecology and social affairs, in order to develop a sustainable network in society. Where have you been and where are you on the topics of the future, where do you stand? If you want environmental protection and climate protection, you also have to say B when you say A. Example hydropower: Where were you at the Mur power station? Where were you and where are you if we want to expand renewable energy? – There are countless examples of wind farms that want to implement the national governments and in which there is a blockade, as well as in the management building et cetera, all that is necessary for an energy transition. Or I also recall the construction of the bioethanol plant in Pischelsdorf, where oil is substituted by organic mass. These are all the topics implemented by ÖVP Environment Ministers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In your application you have an example that shows how you think and how you work: They call for a ‘realignment of European agricultural policy with the aim of preventing the use of climate-damaging land’. – Do you know what is the most harmful form of land use? - The inefficient! And right there you are on the side of those who want to take their tools out of their hands permanently. One of these tools – and I really want to present this as an example so that you can understand it – is the protection of plants that has helped us to make efficient use of areas in Europe over the last decades. In this year alone, restrictions on potato cultivation and pests on the harvest have caused so many potatoes to be sorted and destroyed that it would have been possible to feed 2.5 million people in Austria for a whole year. With this amount, you could throw the entire ring road a meter high. This only indicates that you don't care how it works, because in the shelves of your boutiques you will find enough potatoes from overseas. But that is exactly how we go into the trap, and that would be the true declaration of bankruptcy for climate protection if we could not produce locally. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Therefore, this green Salonum world activism was also chosen. [[Call:To the case]] If we are talking about an eco-social tax reform, we must shape it in such a way that it does not lead to punishment instruments. Under the 2020 tax reform, there will be a number of measures to encourage people to invest in climate change without punishing them. I think that's the right way. Federal Minister Elisabeth Within the framework of the government, Köstinger succeeded in ensuring that climate protection is an integral part of the work of the Federal Government as a whole. It is no longer an isolated place with a single responsibility for it, but climate protection is now implemented in all ministries. And especially in close cooperation with Federal Minister Hofer, it is shown day after day how this government works and sustainability in the truest sense of the word is also taken into work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ]] I mean, the Federal Minister is really the driving force in the government to establish sustainability. Finally, I really have to say, I am also very disappointed by the NEOS. [[Call the NEOS:We too!]] With the objective of the state economy, we had for the first time also received sustainability in the Constitution, and that you are making a withdrawal, that is very bad, but probably it is due to the new leadership. Let's see how this goes! I believe that we are on a good path with climate protection, and I hope that we will soon be able to take the next steps – you will be able to review them.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e5456	The next item is Mrs Pamela Rendi-Wagner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e5478	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister, at the beginning of your speech, you clearly said that climate change, climate change, climate protection are undoubtedly among the biggest challenges and problems of our time. We can no longer agree with you here, also because, as with other topics, it is more than clear through scientific data and not least through a recent international study, the so-called IPCC report, which is not only talking about climate change, but also clearly scientifically proves that there can be irreversible changes here, losses of ecosystems, the so-called point of no return. But if you read about changes here, what does that mean? How far are these distant, local and time-consuming? Is it 100 years? Is it 50 years? – No, they are not 100 years in front of us, quite the contrary, environmental and climate issues are already felt today, in the here and now, our topic, for every individual in our population and for every individual, not least this summer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We know that there are more and more regions around the world, but also in Austria, which have not seen a drop of rain for years, that floods, storms and natural disasters occur with increasing frequency. There are more and more people whose existences are threatened by persistent droughts whose existences are destroyed by floods and the like. It is not an issue that is locally far away, but one that affects us directly here in Austria, the Austrians and Austrians. It has a direct impact on the Austrian population, and this is also scientifically proven, because we know that more than 8 000 people in Austria died in the last year alone due to fine dust, due to nitrogen oxides, due to ozone – 8 000 people. This was also demonstrated for the Styria, specifically for Graz. We know that for Grazers a year of life expectancy is lost, alone due to the high fine dust load in this city. We know, and this has also been calculated and proved that in the last summer alone – and we can all remember very well – almost 600 heat deaths in Austria were reported. These are partly more people than have died in road transport in recent years. These facts, scientifically proven facts, can't just be no matter what we do and can't even care about politics and the government, for we must certainly not close our eyes and take responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I am not sure how measures such as cuts in the environmental budget or speed 140 on motorways can really make this problem responsible. Let us take a look at who people are – not only in Austria, but worldwide – who are most affected by these environmental pressures, of fine dust and heat! They are people who exercise physically strenuous occupations daily, they are people who are exposed to high heat in their work, they are people who ultimately also have to work in places where smoking – unfortunately, since May of this year – can continue throughout the day. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end here with a certain appeal to you all. There are certainly issues that are dealt with by us here in the house and beyond, rightly controversially. We come from different parties, we come from different ideological areas, we have different viewpoints, and this makes our democracy clear that we have exactly here in this House the space, the place and the time to discuss these views. But, ladies and gentlemen, there are also issues that should have a broad alliance in this House, across party borders, across ideologies, in the interests of the Austrian population, and that is where the ideological scams are finally to be removed. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] Among these topics, which we should work here without ideology in a broad alliance for people, are clearly climate and environmental policy, health policy and, of course, the issue of non-smokers protection. I would therefore like to mention this because, at today's meeting, we also have an initiative. will bring a popular vote on a ban on smoking in the gastronomy. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Rossmann and Mr Zadić on his report.]] In conclusion, I should like to ask you: Let us put aside party politics and ideology on these issues where there must be alliances – in the sense of the Austrians – for the right future of our children, so that we can work together for the right thing! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] It's not about black, blue, turquoise, pink, red, it's just about the people of this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e5581	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e5602	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Rossmann, do you know where the biggest climate crisis is currently taking place? - In your own ranks. You have the biggest climate crisis in your own ranks. You can see this with your list leader, you can see this in the name of this list, in which he is doing very pain-free – overall in perception – because – and I am explaining why – the only lady who has known yourself in your series of climate policy and energy was Mrs. Bißmann, and they have let you out. – These are the facts. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another point: We could have debated this issue in the next two plenary sessions. It is, of course, your political right to make yourself here or to make this request, which is quite legitimate. Only: Do you know how many CO2 tons we all consumed today due to this arrival here? – A total of 21 tonnes of CO2 have been used for this arrival of Members today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] This too would be a climate policy measure in this sense. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] I can also stress a lot of what honourable Member Noll has said here from the speakers' point of view. That is legitimate, he has also had good approaches in this area. On the Federal Government, also on cooperation between the ministers – it has already been addressed by my colleague Juryenschlager – Minister Hofer and Minister Köstinger: There is very, very good cooperation, an exchange among themselves, and it is noted that in this area the climate is very, very beneficial and also in the interests of the citizens and the population. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This integrated climate and energy strategy, launched by this Federal Government, includes numerous measures. For all those who have not internalized these numerous measures, I will remind them once again: efficient freight logistics, the strengthening of rail transport, an e-mobility offensive, thermal building renovation, renewable heat, 100 000 roof photovoltaic and micro-storage programme, green finance, incentives for investment and also communication in the education sector, and definitely also measures have been taken in this area to raise awareness of the population. Also an exciting point, towards SPÖ – Mrs. Klubobfrau has unfortunately already gone, but the environmental speaker is still there –: [[Abg. Lightness: Who's gone?]] There is also a motion for a resolution out of your ranks, and I think that is very, very strange. On the one hand, you call the government parties a denial and a denial of reality, relativists in the climate and the environment. So, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, try to get out of your crisis, or put yourself on the side, move back to the ground of reality! Take note that this Federal Government has been doing this climate and environmental policy, which we have also brought in recent months, with commitment and encouragement, and also with appropriate will. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] – Mr Fichtinger, please read the statement at the top, then you will know what you have submitted from your own request. [[Keeping a document in height and pointing to a text point]] [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: This is a relativizing speech!]] I understand your excitement, but you will have the opportunity to make yourself here and to give your subjects the best. [[Abg. Lightness: So when the fan is excited...!]] Nevertheless, we have a very, very good Minister for the Environment, together with a strategy in connection with Transport Minister Hofer, with which we have set up a lot of things in the first ten months. This is a very positive contribution both to the environment and to the economy, and we are living up to this principle. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]] It's not either an economy or an environment, it's both a business or an environment, it's a place for both of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e5717	Mr Beate Meinl-Reisinger is speaking on the floor. She's on the pult for the first time. – Welcome!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e5738	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Rauch, I made a brief survey with us in the club: One came by subway, otherwise everyone on foot and by bike – so our CO2 balance is all right. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I should also like to point out to you that our Members are in Vienna under the age of the week because they are working. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Rosary: This is a very liberal access!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: He was as funny as the predecessor!]] - Are you all right? If we have it, may I? [[Abg. Hafenecker: Only if you do it briefly!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign again.]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e5815	I would ask that the speaker not be disturbed at the first speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e5842	It's right, it's my second first speech I'm allowed to give in this house, and I'm really happy. [[Abg. Hafenecker: The colleague was there once! She's not a virgin...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – Maybe I can speak now without you interrupting me at the first speech! You'll have plenty of opportunities, I swear to you. So: That's my second first speech, and it's really a pleasure to me and it's also an honor for me to be back here. [[Subsequent calls and cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] – A little bit has changed, I think, or maybe not. At any rate, I would like to add another speech that I gave here, namely my last speech at the time when I was changed from the House to the Council of Vienna in 2015. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] From this point of view, I have made a request and an appeal to the Members, namely that Parliament's role should be taken seriously, that it should be taken seriously, perhaps from a purely parliamentary delegation, that it should be a working parliament. And I have to tell you one thing: In recent months, I have not been given the impression that Parliament's role in Austria would have become stronger, that we really would have gone towards a working parliament. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haider.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I have always said that I will fill out my role in the opposition and our role as NEOS in the opposition with my understanding of constructive hardness. Constructively always when it comes to moving forward reforms, or when it comes to finding really new, innovative, courageous ways together. We're not gonna lock up there. We are not the ones who say, just because something comes from the government, we are in principle opposed. This is very important to me. But also there is a hardness where, in our opinion, very important core values of us, but also, as we believe, this Republic is hurt. We will put our fingers in the wounds, and I promise you that we will continue to be stubborn. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] One of these key values that we have defined as NEOS for us is the core value of sustainability. We have emphasized this very often when it comes to saying: In economic terms, in terms of grand fitness, the future fitness of social systems is to make sustainable policy, always with a view to next generations. And yes, I have also said – Mr. Jewellery, because you say that this is perhaps an impact of the new boss – I have said it several times: I am convinced that, as a Liberal Party, which is under the obligation of the next generations, we are obliged to make massive progress on the issue of sustainability in terms of our environment and climate. Why? – Because we need innovative, marketable solutions to meet this overall social responsibility that we undoubtedly have compared to the next generation. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The urgency of the issue today not only shows the debate over the last few months, but also shows the commitment of the Federal Minister to the importance that sustainability and climate protection must have for all of us if we have overall social responsibility. But – and here I come to the crucial point –: The urgency is also based on the fact that we have heard many declarations of intent from this Federal Government, very many strategies, a lot of marketing, many confessions, but few measures. Mrs Bundesminister, I have to say this from this point of view: If renowned experts, environmental organisations, as well as media talk about the #mission2030 being well meant, but not containing very decisive measures, then you must take it seriously. We want to take more decisive steps, we want more courageous steps, we want more innovative steps, but a strategy alone is not worth the paper on which it is written if the measures do not follow. One does not have to become polemic now to say that there are obviously conflicts between different goals when you have implemented such a commitment to sustainability, to CO2 reduction, to climate protection and on the other side of the transport ministers – which is almost impossible to go fast enough on the motorway – speed 140. These are certainly target conflicts that you might negotiate in your government, and we do not see enough clarity there. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] Larry Fink, the founder and CEO of BlackRock – this is a large international investment fund – wrote to the CEOs in his 2018 letter about it and strongly advised that there is an increasing social responsibility or responsibility for social concerns for entrepreneurs, for CEOs. Part of his reasoning is that he says that these are global issues where a policy's ability to act and determination is unfortunately not given, but are intended to fulfill this responsibility globally acting companies. Another thought is that he says the economy has a responsibility. It is also our deep conviction that we can only come up with innovative, sustainable solutions, even if the economy is taking innovative, courageous steps, and we come here, so to speak, along a market economy solution, to future technologies. That is the reason – and that is why I am going to mention this here – why, of course, we are in favour of a CO2 tax, namely a CO2 tax – my colleague Sepp Schellhorn will explain it because we will put a concept on the table – which, of course, is non-profit, but would be a courageous step towards innovation promotion, because of course we need steering measures to take the necessary steps, especially in the economy, towards innovative technical solutions. I'm gonna tell you something. Instead of somehow seeing this as an opportunity, do this here and in principle make a confession that the former ÖVP ministers have always been able to raise taxes – but it doesn't always have to be like that, something like that can also be non-profit-making – instead of seeing and saying the chance: What is the future competitiveness of Austria and Europe? – Certainly not in the old economy with diesel and petrol vehicles. If we do not really act decisively as a policy, even through a CO2 tax, then, I fear, we will not only look at Silicon Valley and China in the exhaust, but also at all the other economies and companies that have long recognized the signs of the time that the Federal Government has not yet recognized. I would now like to come to another issue which has already been raised today, that is this national objective economic location. Of course, we confess – and this is also important and correct – to a strong, competitive economic location, which is the basis for employment and prosperity. There have also been discussions on this, and we have said that it is particularly important for us to stress this and that between the environment and the economy, and not only to post a growth postulate for the economy, but to say clearly that it is also a matter of prosperity, of employment and, above all, of sustainability, of combining it. We would have been ready – and you know that – to take this step together and to anchor this sustainable economic policy in the Austrian federal constitution. But you cannot, at the same time, present a law in which you understandably want to accelerate procedures, EIA procedures, but completely restrict a fundamental column of any liberal democracy, namely freedom of association. There you have really set in motion a shock of NGOs who are looking for the same thing and is dangerous. I'm telling you now: You have to decide. If you have sustainability - – – So we come to transparency for a moment Do you want each association to disclose its members? [[The Members of the European Parliament: Transparency!]] [[towards ÖVP]] Do you want your membership to be disclosed in each club? - I don't want to! This is the opposite of liberal democracy, which is precisely what I see at risk. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's what I'm talking about: If sustainability is important to you, you cannot make a lip confession in a constitutional provision and at the same time undermine it by a different law. [[Abg. Lopatka: We have the obligation...!]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] That's where we said we're not being planted, but we're open to conversations. The door is open, go inside and withdraw this motion for a resolution! [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e6022	Mr Zadić is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e6041	Mr President. High house! Appreciate viewers! This week, we have received a blasphemous message from Tyrol. The water sources considered safe so far are threatened by drying out, and this has to do with climate change. [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] Ask the Tyroleans, it's not stupid. [[towards ÖVP]] At the same time, the ski season was opened in Kitzbühel at 20 degrees plus, for which a large amount of artificial snow was needed. The winters in Austria are snow-poor, the summers are too dry, which means that Austria too is threatened by climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, climate change has no limits. Climate change has consequences worldwide, and these consequences are even more extensive in other countries. What does that mean? – Climate change, for example, destroys the lives of people in African countries. extreme weather, rising sea levels and environmental damage cannot sufficiently feed people in Africa; Drinking water is scarce and public health is at risk. What happens then inevitably? – People will be moving because if there is not enough to drink, if there is not enough to eat, then you will be moving. It won't happen anytime! The International Organisation for Migration has calculated: Millions of people will move by 2050. The estimates are wide apart and are between 25 million and 140 million – some even say, a billion people will be affected by climate change and will be moving. It is no surprise that half of these people who have to leave their homes because of climate change are located in sub-Saharan Africa. Of course, there will be the biggest effects in Africa, which is also the poorest continent, and yes, there will be many climate refugees on the way. I would like to sum up briefly how to become a climate refugee. There are three phases: When the basis of life is destroyed, people are moving. They leave their own country, their home and, of course, move into the city. Many of those who have worked in agriculture are moving from the country to the city – we know the country flight in Austria too – and this leads to the cities growing. [[Abg. Lightness: That's it!]] There is a huge population explosion in the cities of Africa. The cities that have so far lived in relative prosperity have to struggle with many problems through this massive growth of the population in their own countries: Public security, public social infrastructure, education will be destroyed and food will be scarcely destroyed. These lack of prospects for the future and the lack of opportunities for life result in people from these cities moving to neighbouring countries. This brings us to the second phase: People move from their own country to a neighboring country. In most neighbouring countries, however, it will look very similar, because climate change knows no limits, and these countries too are affected by climate change. These cities too have to fight for a population explosion and they can no longer carry it economically simple and touchingly – for we all know: African countries are not exactly affected by prosperity. Then it comes to the third phase. Even if these wealthier countries are no longer able to absorb people, those who can afford it will continue to move: They will leave Africa and will move towards Europe, towards the USA. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not the future, it's happening now! For example, we need to look at Senegal: 70 percent of the population in Senegal has worked in agriculture. If you look at what Senegal looks like with the environment, you can see that in the last ten years, for example, the average rainfall has been 15 percent lower than 1975; at the same time, the temperature has increased by 1 degree Celsius. This means that many of the Senegalese people have to emigrate from this country, and this is also reflected in our migration figures: In Europe, many people who immigrate here and seek migration or asylum come from Senegal. If people can no longer be fed if their homes are seriously destroyed and they are flooded with highly subsidized agricultural products from Europe, they will emigrate. – We can no longer ignore this, we must fight the causes of these migrations! [[In the list of mushrooms, as well as the Abg. Duzdar.]] Unfortunately, closing Europe hermetically will not succeed, so we must do something to combat these causes for the escape movements. We need a well thought-out economic policy, we need a well thought-out environmental policy and we need a well thought-out trade policy, because only in this way can we manage to combat these causes. But the answer to these challenges can only work together: together with Europe and together with all the countries of the world. If we do not, then the generation of the future will ask us why we have recognized the problems but have not acted. That is why we must commit ourselves to common goals, control and take the migration movement seriously. For this reason, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We can only face the global challenge of migration together. Thank you. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] [[12:26]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e6154	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e6179	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I should like to thank you in advance for convening this special meeting on this important subject. Climate protection, energy transition is a very, very important issue for this coalition government, for this government, for us parties FPÖ and ÖVP. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to present our activities to you here and also to the people outside! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Before I come to these points, however, I would like to dedicate myself to Mr Rossmann, because it is already a large portion of Sarcasm, which has been shown today by the Pilz list, that Bruno Rossmann, himself appointed new energy and environmental spokesperson, has now also explained the world to us in this area. The Pilz list has emerged from the Greens, so it is also a green waste, and the topics of energy, climate policy, which you, Mr Rossmann, have provided here today, I simply do not buy you out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll]] You have no credibility here, you have no competence here. The only person in your club who had credibility and competence is now sitting there: [[towards Abg. by Bißmann Wise]] This is my colleague Martha Bißmann, with whom I was not always of the same opinion, that's clear, but I appreciate her opinion, her expertise, and they have let you out of your club for weeks and months, and if that has not yet worked, you have excluded her from your club. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] So you've played every expertise, every competence. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rossmann: on the matter!]] [[Abg. Lightenness: There is colleague Lopatka...!]] With regard to the choice of words that you have expressed today and also in the past, my colleague, has already said that you should apologize, because contrary to you, this coalition of ÖVP and FPÖ takes climate protection seriously and the expansion of renewable energy. ==References== December, I can now tell you that as an energy speaker, this government has been praised. Only three weeks later, there was a government clause, and Minister Hofer and Minister Köstinger announced that they wanted to develop an integrated climate and energy strategy. [[Abg. Plessl:... yes for years...!]] Again, only three months later, this draft was put on the table. A wide-ranging stakeholders process has been launched, and the concerns and criticisms of science and NGOs have been taken into account and incorporated into this strategy. At the end of May, this strategy was decided – with detailed timetables. I can also give you the printed version of the #mission 2030, because I think you have looked through this design. [[keeping a corresponding specimen in height]] I do not think so. Energy speakers would expect you to read this out because you said there were no measures, no timetables. [[Abg. Rossmann: I know that!]] Mr Rossmann, there were originally ten lighthouses, now we have twelve lighthouses, and below says: Instruments, measures, bundles of measures, competence, time horizon – all you have said here is simply wrong. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Prince: That's how it looks!]] Of course, it must hurt you and the rest of the opposition, if you see with what reform zeal and with what emphasis these parties are doing to change Austria positively. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zinggl.]] We have, I have already mentioned, developed a comprehensive energy and climate strategy. We want to introduce a comprehensive renewable development law here in the parliamentary process next year, and I invite you to participate. We may succeed in making an all-party agreement, just like the small eco-stromnovel, that we can make an all-party agreement! That would be desirable, but unfortunately we must look: If you keep working like this, it won't work with you. In any event, we are at our disposal, because we want to take action here, and we want to pursue this important and serious issue on a sustainable basis. We have set ourselves a very ambitious goal in the field of electricity – an area of energy I want to mention. We want to generate 100 percent of the electricity from renewable energy sources by 2030. The 100 percent will also be too few for them; You can't make it right. Even if we had written 150 or 200 percent, you would not be satisfied! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] However, we will not let it happen, we will implement this law next year. We have also started a process under the Energy Efficiency Act. We are very busy, as we want to deal with point by point. – I would like to draw your heart to this concept of #mission 2030. [[towards Abg. Rossmann]] Another sentence on the NEOS. – Mrs. Klubobfrau, I don’t think I have to apologize for coming from Tyrol and not coming on foot or taking the subway. It only shows once again that you live in your NEOS cloud; the city of Vienna and perhaps the cities - - I can tell you - the song “Die Wolk’n” by Peter Cornelius dedicated to the text line “I live in ana Cloud’n”. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: There are Vorarlberger, Salzburger,...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] In this you are, I believe, and it is interesting to see how under your party leadership NEOS have made a certain change of course from an economic-friendly liberal party to an NGO-controlled party. [[Abg. Loacker:... from a 60-man fraction...!]] We have seen this in the state destination when you fell upon a call from a NGOs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] [[Abg. Loacker:... Members of leisure, the...!]] It will be interesting to see how you are developing here in the next few weeks. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e6410	The next speaker was Mr Feichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e6431	Mr. Lettenbichler, there has been a seemingly above-ground vehicle that has been calling itself a train for nearly 200 years, and this is also happening from Tyrol to Vienna. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Diesellok!]] Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister, you said at the “press hour” on Sunday that you have a great heart for agriculture because you come from this area. – I understand that; the problem is that there is only just a small heartbeat left for the environment, and that cannot change your policy over the last few months. [[Call the ÖVP:Ah go!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Every farmer...!]] This is only a continuation of the policy that took place among the last Federal Ministers of the ÖVP. [[Call the FPÖ: There you were the partner!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Where were you?]] [[Call the FPÖ: Good to see you there!]] We do not at all agree on a recognizable effort, only in the substance it is too little, and unfortunately the climate and energy strategy cannot change anything, because it is lacking in budgetary support. We have already mounted this in the area of budget debate for the double budget. However, in order to show the contradictions in the environmental policy of the Federal Minister for the Environment and to make this clear on three points: First point, traffic: Mrs Bundesminister, where is he? Your call at Tempo 140 on the motorway when, against all scientific findings, the Federal Minister Hofer tried out Tempo 140 on sub-sections? [[Complementary by the SPÖ and by Mr Loacker and Mr Noll]] [[Abg. Smoking: Try it!]] They announce that precise measurements will be carried out to determine the impact on the environment; in a response, Minister Hofer gives the best, there will be an assessment with estimates. [[Abg. Smoking: The Arbö likes it!]] – Maybe you agree in the government once on what will really be evaluated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A second point, thermal renovation: We have a 2 percent recovery rate as a target, but budget resources are lower than in previous years. They have announced a simplification of access to support. What does the implementation look like? – A category was deleted, and do you know which one? – Historical buildings! This is totally irrelevant in the area. They say in the course of the remediation offensive: Out of oil! 5 000 euros of support for those who move around. [[Call: Is it good?]] – There are still 700 000 oil boilers in Austria. Do you know how long it takes for a budget of 42 million euros until we make the move? – 83 years! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Plessl: A very ambitious Federal Minister!]] [[Call:Go]] A third and an extremely important point in environmental policy: What about dealing with civil society, with NGOs? – Mrs Federal Minister, you say that we have now finally implemented the Aarhus Convention. [[Call the ÖVP:Transparency!]] But this is not a praise sheet, which your predecessor promised us four years ago and set up working groups. It's long overdue! It was only because of court decisions that it became absolutely inevitable to bring this law to rail. What's left? – Within the matter laws, it is also not rigorous and uniformly implemented. The government template on the EIA law contains a local attorney, of whom the economic representatives already say, who does not bring us anything but more bureaucracy at all. – The attack on the NGOs, with the amendment on 4 May. It was launched in October – without consideration – by well-known experts as non-European law, as non-data protection law, is considered to be non-equivalent. [[Call the SPÖ:Without review!]] [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] [[Call:This is incredible]] There is no concrete benefit for the procedures; the measure is intended to intimidate NGOs. The massive protest over the last 14 days has obviously caused at least a slight rethinking and there has at least been a conversation with the NGOs. I do not want to comment on the Location Development Act at all, but on the State objective of economic location two more sentences: I should like to congratulate NEOS on not having been allowed here by the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: They fell down!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The ÖVP manages to pull someone over the table so quickly that it still feels the friction heat as nest heat. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: We don't have to be protected!]] To request the list of mushrooms introduced today: There are some very good points included; some points in them are not fully debated for us, and we cannot therefore accede to the request with this content. However, since we also want to bring constructive proposals into the debate, I would like to make the following motion for a resolution by Dr.in Pamela Rendi-Wagner, Dr. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger, colleagues on the 10-point programme against climate change. The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Sustainability and Tourism, is invited to decide on an emergency programme to combat the climate crisis, which includes the following priorities: a stop to energy waste, an energy research billion, the massive expansion of the efficient and natural-friendly eco-electric production, a socially-righteous reorganisation offensive, a sustainable heat transition, investments in clean and manageable mobility, the improvement of measures against climate change, the transition to environmentally friendly agriculture, an active role at COP 24 in Katowice and an ecologicalisation of the tax system. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:39]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e6776	The application is properly filed and is under negotiation. He is also distributed in plenary. Mr Rossmann is speaking on an actual amendment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e6832	I expect more respect from you! [[Call the FPÖ:For what?]] I have an actual correction to make a comment by Mr Lettenbichler: He said that I would be “self - appointed” environmental spokesperson. This is, of course, wrong, I'm from the list of mushrooms chosen by the club's environmental spokesperson. I would like to make that clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e6888	I would ask you to pay attention, ladies and gentlemen. The next speaker was Mr Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e6913	Mr President. Mrs Bundesminister Köstinger! It is already a strong piece when Mr Rossmann, who has previously shown a brachial rhetoric, is now addressing the speaker's voice and calling for respect – but that only shows how this whole team is now on the other side. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I find it exciting where we can develop ideological graves everywhere. If you are now trying to remove ideological graves in the field of climate protection, I do not know what reality we are in here. I think it's quite clear that we all have a goal: We want to protect our climate, of course, and we also strongly want to take all the political measures to ensure it. There is an agreement here in Parliament that climate protection is our top objective, so I do not understand why we need to use such means here. It's in political life like this: There are different ways to achieve these goals, and it is also true that the path of a government sometimes differs from the path of an opposition. But I believe that we should be able to discuss this in a normal and set way, and there is no need to use such expressions of power here. By the way, I also hope that in the Pilz list some time, something like continuity will come back, perhaps also in the area of transport policy. It has already been said: Mr Bißmann has already been pushed out, and I really hope that Mrs Cox – with whom I have a very good understanding in the joint committees – can bring in continuity and, above all, the relevant facts. What is our target for the year 2030? – This is relatively clearly defined: The aim is to reduce transport emissions from 22.9 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents to 15.7 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents, and I think that is an ambitious goal. As I said, there are several ways to achieve this objective. Our access is: We do not want to achieve this through bans and taxes, as Mr Rossmann wants, but we want to achieve this by raising awareness. I am very grateful that Minister Köstinger and Minister Hofer have taken a similar approach. How do we want to do this in detail? – Quite clearly, this could have happened to Mr Rossmann today: Avoiding unnecessary traffic – also respectful of such meetings as this one; that would have been an approach! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another element of our policy is to increase public transport. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what the SPÖ did not do, we have already presented: We have the largest investment volume in the field of ÖBB, which has so far been in the Second Republic – also there is a clear measure. What are we gonna do? – We are trying to ensure strategic and needs-oriented expansion of e-mobility. That is to say, this small share of electric vehicles currently in existence in Austria should be extended accordingly, and we will also create the conditions for that. At the end there is also the following point in the foreground: It is important to advance the technologically open expansion of electric drives, and there are also some plans that we have already presented. There are lighthouses that make clear where the trip is going: There is concretely the project with efficient freight logistics – so far, social democracy has not managed to bring all stakeholders to a table, to drive forward efficiency and not to work double-trackly, but to make some progress in logistics. We are also concerned with strengthening public transport, which is linked to the media. There was, in principle, always the problem that while urban space has always been heavily invested in the seemingly connected traffic, it has always been forgotten to create networking with the rural area. There will also be corresponding offensives. I mentioned it earlier: The e-mobility offensive is therefore at our heart, because we see clearly that it is about setting impulses to come to a rethink, but above all because we know: Once e-mobility has arrived in the minds of people, business and industry will also speed up their research in this area and we will achieve our climate objectives together. A word perhaps to colleague Rendi-Wagner, who is now back in the hall: Mrs Colleagues, if you vote in favour of the sound of shawls as you did before, and if you say that it was so much for you to work together in the House that the climate is important and we should all take a lead – then you should have Do not allow colleagues Klaus Uwe Feichtinger to make such a request to be “relativists and relativists” to the government parties! You know, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, that doesn't fit what you said before: If you are really looking for honest cooperation, then don't make any requests that are against polemics and above all contain a job break! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] No one of the government parties can agree to an application in which he himself is called a liar and a relativist! I think that's what the SPÖ is all about. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] By the way, the whole application reads like a non-inhibited self-refund by SPÖ. I do not know what Mr Leichtfried has done to you that you are now accusing him of having done nothing for the climate. I do not know what Mr Stöger has done to you that you are suing him in this request – so somehow I cannot understand the consistency within your party. Maybe you should prove a course how opposition actually works. [[Abg. Lightness: Bad speech! Bad speech!]] At the end of my speech, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, one more thing, because you are back in the hall: It would be really important – also in the sense of social democracy – that you put order in your own pile once. When the son of the Kärntner head of state makes statements in which he calls Austria “Nazion” – so written! – then it is without any acceptable basis! In this second, you should come to the speaker's desk, apologise, set up human consequences and clarify them. As long as a social democracy operates as it does now, it cannot be taken seriously, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e6976	Next item is the report by Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e6998	Mr President. Estimated Minister Köstinger! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! It is amazing that the discussion takes place in such a way that the speakers of the government groups come to the speaker's desk, act essentially with responsibilities and don't put any solutions on the table – and the opposition comes to the speaker's desk and puts the solutions on the table. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is a wrong game, because I would have expected concrete answers from the previous speakers of ÖVP and FPÖ in this area. However, I would like to refer to the content, because the subject is too important to simply cheat on each other. If we look at domestic policy – and above all daily policy – one step further away, let us look at what major challenges in the 21st century. It's in front of us in the 20th century! Many have already been mentioned, I would like to take three of them very briefly: One is the climate crisis itself. There is no end to scientific evidence: We know how much our climate has changed, we know what is happening to us, and we know, as far as we are concerned today, what we have to do. As a country of Austria, we are not only affected, but we will be significantly over-average when the climate crisis occurs to the extent it is predicted. In the inner alpine area, we speak of twice as much warming as in the global average – that means, at 2 degrees in the global average, there are 4 degrees in the inner alpine space! This means for our people in this country – and I am not yet talking about the responsibility of Europe and the worldwide responsibility – that we in Vorarlberg, in Tirol, in Salzburg, in Salzkammergut, in Carinthia, in fact have to close a number of valleys. Mures will affect agriculture, just as droughts and floods, much will not be in Austria as it has been in the past – this leaves you cold, at least in the current debate with your speeches today. The second problem, which will lead to a equally central crisis, is the question of dealing with resources. We know that we depend on fossil energy, we know that we are dependent on many metals, we know that the question of how we deal with plastic in society is completely unanswered. This is not only a question of how much the oceans of the world are polluted – also there is a responsibility in Austria – but also the question is: What do our future companies look like? What does our future economic cycle look like, what do future jobs look like? What is the quality of life in our country? – You still have relatively little to say about this today. The third point, also very central, concerns biodiversity. In turn, we do not need to look at the world seas that are massively affected, we do not need to look far into the distance: From insects to birds, to mammals in us, to the diversity of plants, we can talk about how biodiversity changes and often also lowers. As NEOS, we can and do not simply want to accept all of this, so there are concrete answers from our side. I also expect these from ÖVP and FPÖ, but I have not heard them so far. What have we heard about ÖVP and FPÖ? . We hear that they want to answer these major crises with a #mission2030, which includes measures including timelines, but which do not contain budget resources. Budget is a strategy cast in numbers – your strategy does not have a budget, so it is not a strategy! [[Consistency with NEOS and SPÖ as well as with the Abg. Zadić.]] Mrs. Köstinger, if this changes, I will be the first to come to the speaker's desk here and find a praise and a word of recognition – but at the moment this is not noticeable. The other issue is then the EIA-Novelle which we have currently discussed. We NEOS do not want to stress – and my club wife Beate Meinl-Reisinger has already said this: For us, sustainable economy is a central commitment, in a free market economy with market-friendly and efficient solutions. But all of this also means that the medal has two sides: On the one hand, one cannot confess to sustainability in the constitutional order, to a consistency of economy and ecology, and on the other hand, one, let us say, makes half dizzy amendments to an EIA novelle – which would not have found our approval from the house, for example, because it provides for a location lawyer who rejects the economy that the federal states reject, which no-one would like to see needs, and contains many deteriorations – starting from a model from Sweden and forgetting half of the Swedish model! They want to have a minimum of 100 members for NGOs, so that they can even have a party position in an EIA in the future. At the same time, however, you forget that the Swedish regime also contains an exception to such NGOs that may prove relevant. The classic example that has been discussed in Sweden: Five Nobel Prizewinners meet, want to set up an environmental organisation and make their contribution. – In Austria they are not allowed to do this in the future, and that is exactly what we want to prevent as NEOS! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If I take down the environmental glasses a little bit and set up the economic policy a little bit – Mr Schellhorn will do so in great detail – I can tell you one thing: You have not implemented all that the Industrial Union and the Economic Chamber have demanded for the EIA – that is, clearer laws, such as those in front of us with an environmental impact assessment, a follow-up to the project operators, the experts who need to act much faster. You only have some novels to find a headline again. However, I would now like to come to the solutions from criticism of optimism, and I would like to address two issues very specifically. We cannot find every answer in Austria, many answers can be found in the area of action of Europe, in a closed European policy, where we speak with one voice to the world community – some of which we can already implement today in Austria. One of these points – and this is a central element that shines into all the crises – is the question of how we want to make the economic system we have in Austria future-fit: That's where the circular economy is the only right answer. At present, the 211 million tonnes of resources that our society consumes each year in Austria account for only 9 percent of the resources that are reused. If we focus our economy on the circular economy – and we can do so with appropriate framework conditions, we do not need to do so with bans, we do not need to achieve the right framework conditions – then we can actually shape jobs, quality of life, education, economy and consumption in such a way that we can make them available not only in the next decades, but also in the coming centuries. The short visibility has survived. What we really need is a commitment to sustainability. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e7098	The next item is Mrs Cox. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e7119	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are looking forward to more than 20 degrees in Central Europe in October – but what we often forget is what climate change will have for influence in the next few years and what it will have for influence on our children and children. We already see heat, storms, disasters such as droughts, floods and drinking water scarcity. These are no longer foreign words, that's reality, and there's still a lot ahead of us! But if we were really aware of this, we would no longer be talking about measures, about possible objectives, but then all of this would be implemented. But at the moment I do not see that we have already implemented enough, and there will be a lot more going on, even if you look at yourself in the global context, how politicians around the world celebrate themselves and their courage to achieve abstract goals – there are no more abstract goals in this area, abstract goals are too few! You too, Mrs Köstinger, have once again become known in the last Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for the 1.5 degree target, but it is also important what the achievement of these objectives means. The achievement of these objectives means a massive restructuring of the tax system, which, of course, reduces hidden costs. What does it mean if you really want to achieve the 1.5 degree goal? – Caring will be luxury, and yes, flying too – then only a few people can afford it! But it is, of course, unpopular to go to the public with such things, and that is why you are silent to set goals and take cosmetic measures – for example, in the field of electromobility I would expect a lot more – and often you do so until the next choice – but this shortsightedness will have consequences: behind us the flood, in the literal sense! Even worse than these mere promises and their failure to implement them, however, is a conscious sabotage of the fight against global warming. Let us take a look at the most prominent example, which was very strongly discussed: Minister Hofers Tempo 140 on the motorway. Transport, as we know, is the concerned child number one in climate policy, about 30 percent of CO2 emissions are due to transport, and what does Mr Hofer do? – It increases CO2 emissions by increasing the maximum speed on the motorways! Congratulations! Mrs Sustainability Minister, we need you to raise your voice on this issue in particular when it comes to increasing CO2 emissions. But let us take a closer look at the speed 140 on the motorway, not only do we want to criticize here, but we look at it in detail now. Minister Hofer, in his reply to the question, refers to a “transport technical opinion”, which is supposed to improve the “lightness and liquidity of transport” by increasing the maximum speed. Well, I asked at TU Wien: The experts from the Institute for Transport Planning and Transport Technology have confirmed that increasing the maximum speed leads to an increase in track changes. What does that mean? – Negative braking behaviour, road safety, emissions and, three times, you can guess, the fluid of transport is hindered. In answer to our question to Minister Hofer, the questions about noise and emissions have been ignored, because it is about the liquids of transport – but with this you drive the climate protection to the wall, and that with full gas! This cannot be the climate policy and the transport policy that we need in 2018, because that is not sustainable! [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] Mr Hofer's second argument concerns time-saving. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] Let us take a look at the time savings, Mr Cot: This higher maximum speed saves two seconds per kilometer. Let's take a look at Vienna–Salzburg. Those who can count quickly already know: 10 minutes. It is ridiculous 10 minutes less from Vienna to Salzburg, and we take an increase in the risk of transport and death and an increase in emissions, which naturally takes place disproportionately. All this for 10 minutes? [[Abg. Easy: Unheard of!]] That's where I ask myself questions, of course. I must also address the question to you, Mrs Köstinger, because this is also an overarching issue. You must work together on this issue with Mr Hofer. There you have to be a strong voice, because traffic – as we have just heard – is such an important issue when it comes to climate change. Do you prefer saving 2 seconds a kilometer, or is it about the future of our planet? It is about the future our children, our children, have on this planet. This is more important than party politics, more important than election results, also more important than ministerial posts. Above all, it is also more important than individual governments, because the climate – let’s see how long the environment will survive then, but – should and will survive some governments. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs. Minister, you have a great responsibility. Many people rely on your voice and above all on your actions. You'll face that responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e7173	The next item is Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Elisabeth Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e7197	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! I have spoken for myself to highlight one, two topics from the climate strategy and to bring you a little closer and explain it to you, because with this heading of the Pilz list “Protect climate – now!” the suspicion that the Pilz list seems to have not yet been able to take control of and read the climate strategy, otherwise it would not have to ask this question, otherwise it would be clear that a great deal is already being done for climate protection by us and by this government. [[Abg. Rossmann: We put them down again with horror!]] I would like to ask you, Mr Rossmann: They had the opportunity to give input to the development of the climate strategy. For example, they also had the opportunity to come to the survey that took place in May. [[Abg. Rossmann: I was here!]] – I was here too, Mr Rossmann! Mr Rossmann! [[Abg. Rossmann: This is the summit!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] I also have my second speech in this House today and I would also like to express it, as Mr Meinl-Reisinger did. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Thank you. Mr President, I looked at the list of speakers. I was there myself, and I also spoke about it. I have not found you on the list of speakers. I didn't find anyone from the list of mushrooms. [[Abg. Rossmann: This too is wrong!]] It is only then that Mrs Bißmann spoke at the end of the summary, but it is no longer yours, because the climate in your group, the climate in your party, seems not to be particularly protected either. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr Rossmann, I do not believe that your interest in climate change and in these issues is so huge and so insanely sustainable. I think you've been sitting in your office last week, thinking about how you can generate attention again. There's one thing that came to your mind: Ah, yeah, there was something in my early days. In my early days, I was still committed to climate change and climate change. That was a subject of ours, and it would be once again a matter for us from the list of mushrooms, for us in our function as graves of the Greens. [[Abg. Noll: As tort tombs?]] But now to the facts: The newly developed climate and energy strategy combines climate protection and the economy, as sustainability and economic development must go hand in hand. The balance between ecology and economy is particularly important to us. Our citizens expect us to do just that with intelligently designed framework conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bernhard! They have now assumed that we have no compassion and we would not be interested in what is already happening in Austria, we would not be interested in the damage and we would not act. That's not true! [[Abg. Lightenness: But it pushes!]] In particular, the Minister of Agriculture is always committed to supporting damage cases, for example in the field of agriculture. Of course: If there are damage events such as Muren, then a contribution of the federal government is also paid. So it's just not true that we're not interested in it. I would also like to address a second issue now, because Mr von der SPÖ has assembled that there is too little going on in the building area and that it is ridiculous what we have been looking at in terms of savings in the use of oil heating. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: I didn't say ridiculous!]] In the building area, savings of 3 million tonnes of CO2 are planned. That's really very, very much. This is a very ambitious project. There's the Federal Rehabilitation Check. This provides incentives and a lot of money was also provided for. [[Call the SPÖ: Less than in our times!]] With the previous governments, it was also true that only money was paid, support was paid when a complete renovation was envisaged. Now there is also this in the case of partial rehabilitations. That means: Even smaller investments and people who have smaller houses and cannot afford a huge investment benefit from them. There was no such thing as the noise from the oil, for example, which is now under our Minister. Since July, a total of 3 500 projects with a volume of 20 million euros have been submitted. To say that there is nothing more passionate about it, I actually find it quite prettier. Finally – as my speaking time is already over – I would like to hold one more time – Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger and some others have already said that: In addition to the legal framework, we also need to support awareness-building. I would really like to invite you to this. Do not always paint the devil on the wall, help us motivate, cooperate with the people, and not only scare people constantly! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e7345	Mrs Mag.a Muna Duzdar's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e7369	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators and spectators at the gallery! Today, it has been said – from several sides – that the climate crisis is the biggest global challenge we have to face. She's real and she's taking place. It does not take place exclusively or especially in countries of the Third World, but it also takes place on the European continent. Austria is above-averagely affected in Central Europe. With the rise in temperature, we experience heat waves, forest fires, violent slides, wall drains, pests in agriculture, and many other disasters that regularly set people in our own country. [[Abg. Gudenus: There was no such thing in the past!]] We know too well today that the climate crisis is triggering global escape movements because it deprives people of the basics of existence because people are denied access to water and food. The natural consequence of this is the escape. Such developments are taking place right now, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In 2015, the aim of the Paris climate agreement was to combat precisely these threats and protect our planet. Limiting the heat to below 1.5 degrees Celsius is a huge challenge, but it is a feasible challenge. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to achieve climate targets, a smart energy policy is needed, because if we want to stop the climate crisis, an energy transition is necessary to protect our lives. Energy transition means drastically reducing CO2 emissions by completely reversing our energy system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, it could be thought that those responsible in our country have long been alerted by the climate crisis. One might think that they are already zealously implementing an intelligent energy policy and are working on the key challenges. However, Mrs Minister, the opposite is the case. I listened very attentively to you today. They were beautiful words, they were very dedicated, ambitious words, but when I look at the climate and energy strategy, it only shows how good marketing works. I'm telling you, too, why: If I have a climate and energy strategy without binding targets, without a concrete implementation plan and – today this has been properly addressed – without budget resources, then this strategy does not deserve the name strategy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They are ambitious sounding words, but reality is now another. If you want to let us know with the #mission 2030 that you can fight the climate crisis with lighthouse projects or with marketing stories, that's just too little. I mean, behind all of this, something is hidden, which often doesn't really sifting or ringing through, namely that a hard client policy of the ÖVP is taking place at the expense of the cities. The FPÖ stands next to it and is at least pleased that it is no longer described as a climate change liar or that it is no longer ridiculed as a climate change liar. Mrs. Köstinger, we have heard many, many announcements since the start of the government, instead of making a forward-looking energy policy for all people in this country. How do I evaluate your statements differently? E-cars should be allowed to drive 130 km/h at the air hundred. Is this the way we want to boost the mobility turnaround? Mrs Minister, please inform yourself about how fast e-cars actually drive! At Tempo 130, the battery is empty immediately. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Above all, learn about the cost of e-cars, namely from 25 000 euros upwards! [[New cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] We as the opposition party must clearly show the government how a smart energy policy works in times of the climate crisis. [[Abg. Gudenus: You have already done that!]] An intelligent climate policy must serve people and take a real turn. It has already been addressed today, Mrs. Minister: You want to take environmentally friendly measures on the one hand, and your colleague, Mr Hofer, is doing exactly the opposite with his dimensional pace 140. That's when I'm wondering: How unplanned, contradictory and uncoordinated is the government on this question? [[Abg. Neubauer: The Arbö is for this!]] On this point I can simply say: The government simply does not take the climate crisis seriously. One point is particularly important to me in this context, namely the costs, the costs of the energy transition. Who is the cost of this energy transition? I am of the opinion that the costs must not be socialized, that the costs must not be shifted to private households. Everyone and everyone in Austria must contribute to the energy transition and to the fight against the climate crisis, according to their possibilities and performance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would just like to say: But with the black and blue government, we face the very opposite. In fact, it threatens us that large industrial enterprises will adopt themselves from the solidarity model in the energy sector and ultimately will not contribute enough to the energy transition, thus turning everything around on citizens. Where ÖVP and FPÖ stand, there is a tough client policy inside. On the other hand, I'm going to be vehement. Minister Köstinger – Mr Hofer is not here today – please take your responsibility and take the concrete steps against the climate crisis and please stop using this symbol policy! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e7482	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e7506	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With my speech today, I would like to contribute a little more to realism and bring back a little bit of realism instead of the excited hyperventilation about sham facts, which are not only rebut also miles away from reality. I would like to say to Mr Rossmann, who started with a thick waltz: Mr Rossmann, it doesn't matter to the thickness of a book, it depends on what's inside. The double is at least as thick. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] Today, it is criticized that the so-called #mission 2030, the strategy is only flickwerk or just a project report without concrete budget figures. Please, that's the first step. What's a strategy? – A strategy is not the final report but the first project in writing. Then, in the near future, in the individual steps comes the material, technical, scientific and political detail including the budget figures so urgently mounted by you today. I think it would be a little unscrupulous to set up budget figures already with the strategy. After all, you would justifiably criticize that – then, if you do, they don't fit. Let's stick to realism, let's stick to serious politics – opposition, let's leave others. [[Abg. Noll: I have to write that down!]] I am now taking two chapters out of which I really have to say that a little bit in detail belongs to this, namely solutions as they have been mounted by you over and over again. The strategy of us stands in the way of solutions. The general, as you say as a technician, the swirl, we leave to the requests which are not so very concrete. For example, it was mounted that we do nothing against oil heating. The Minister mentioned exactly what is in the strategy for this, and also what private companies like the OMC are doing to promote, precisely for these oil heaters. From colleagues Rossmann – well, I see it, ideologically – comes again and again: That is also a distribution policy issue. – Well, at the oil, I might let that happen, but how does that look like with the gas? The gas is also a very terrible CO2 generator. Probably the left side of this house in the big cities would like to clear the gas and then say: So, dear city dwellers, now think about something like you might bring in some wooden shit or something! Do we really want to get our society back into the last century? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] Or do we want to give our fellow citizens a responsible prosperity? [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] For building renovation: We have also been told enough about this and that we are promoting it. In the SP paper I read that this seems to be focused on rural areas. Mrs Neo-Parteichefin Wagner – Rendi-Wagner, sorry! [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Rendi-Wagner!]] In order not to exaggerate you: ==References====External links== District only in the outskirts of Vienna! [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: I am!]] Talk to the district officers there, look at what is being done there! [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Exactly!]] Ask You may be speaking to Mr Vogl from Steyr, where we are working there! This is the multi-storey residential building. That's all you said, nothing happens. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: I don't have it!]] That's where the most happens. Look If you apply for your own request, you will see what I mean! So please: Something more comes back to reality. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I come to the general chapter: do not waste and advise energy. I recommend that if the Austrian companies are so horrendous energy wasters, take your works councils out of Voest, Steyr, MAN and so on, and tell them they may go to their CEOs and say: They're energy wasters. Then you'll know what's going on with the rulers. Firstly, the programmes will be handed over to them; secondly, the works councils will be asked whether they are still doing well and whether they are still healthy. [[Abg. Vogl: And not you, because...!]] One word on transport, because today there is a great deal of talk about the measures around speed 140 and about what this all means. I know it's very difficult in Austria: With eight or nine million Austrians, we have at least seven million transport ministers and at least so many experts – at least from the left-wing Reichhalfs – who know that this is all terrible. One of my previous speakers has also shown this exactly. But if you really look at what has come out with the current results – in December the study will be completed – then we are so far that we can speak of negligible CO2 effects at speed 140. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] So far as the difference between left theory and proper practice. Return to distribution justice: If today is asked to ban driving or to make it so expensive that only the rich can afford: What do I say in my district to the Gaflenzer who has to drive 40 kilometres to Steyr or to Amstetten? Do I tell him to drive publicly if the trains don't drive at the time they're supposed to drive to, but then drive when it matches the clock? What do you want me to tell him? Let me tell him: Buy cheaper food!? - Yes, the Minister of Transport! [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: The Minister of Transport is to blame!]] Who put the last five transport ministers? [[Abg. The comrades!]] The first one I was allowed to meet is now behind me. Tell her once! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Should I tell the rulers that they are not allowed to eat good food because of energy history, but they have to buy cheap food? Should I tell them they can't buy cheap clothes, but they have to buy expensive because they hold a CO2 load? I think you have not yet understood the word distribution justice. This shows me exactly that your special session today was a waste of energy.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e7696	The next item is Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e7720	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Two, three sentences to my previous speakers jewelry beaters and lettenbichlers: I understand that if you have made a trade-off mistake that has made a little bit wrong with the government target and perhaps the Minister for the “press hour” has not been properly informed. [[Abg. Stefan: What? What? You have not informed yourself properly, Mr. Cot.]] But you may more often need a two-thirds majority for a constitutional change. Then you must also have the courage to admit: Okay, we did a little wrong. We cannot misinformation the public here, and that is actually the main reason. – You can’t assume the NEOS, they wouldn’t do me anything, you nothing, maybe, because they’ve gotten in their knees before anything, so to speak, press the stop button. That is simply not true, and this is what Mr Ottenschlager knows. You know that! Just give it up once! That's the facts. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Stefan: Sparse applause! It's been louder!]] Mrs Minister, yes, I also give you the right to say that measures against climate change are only useful at EU level, but even national states can do a lot. They also mentioned the example of Sweden. The example of Sweden also clearly shows that from 1990 to 2015, real growth in Sweden stands at 68 percent and in Austria at 58 percent, i.e. 10 percent more. In this period, emissions have increased by 6 per cent and in Sweden they have fallen by 25 per cent. If you also require NEOS, we want new taxes: No, we want to steer! Tell me about a CO2 tax from me from CO2 steering, but we need the polluter principle and we need the commitment to this pollutant principle. It is also very important that we have achieved a decisive approach here. It would be important that this is also read by you, because with the steering effect of a CO2 control, on the other hand, the factor work is dramatically relieved, and this is also a really sustainable concept with our three-phase system. When it comes to sustainability, we all know – and this concerns me and my employees as well as any entrepreneur – that: The employees deserve too little and cost too much. Thus, this steering measure of a CO2 tax or CO2 steering could relieve us of the work factor. That would also be a classic point where we say: Okay, we're putting in the first phase, especially when it comes to evaluating CO2 taxation not only, but also to pointing out that those who drive a powerful car have to pay more taxes for it than those who use a low-emission car. That would be the first steering effect. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In the first phase from now until 2022, the 1 billion euros would be saved, and it would also bring the steering effect that we would, above all, remove these – let us say it – casting cans taxes, i.e. the NoVA, the motor-related insurance tax, the MÖST et cetera. We should also rethink in this first phase. In the second phase, we should extend the CO2 control, the steering measure, and only in the third phase do we switch to the ETS sector. This also shows exactly the direction Sweden has given us. In Sweden, there was no carbon leakage, and the industry was in the process. The industry has been pushed into an innovation spiral, and this innovation spiral has used it. This is particularly important if we look at the fact that from 1990 to 2015, emissions fell by 25 percent in Sweden, while they increased by 6 percent in us. Nevertheless, Sweden has greater growth. This is the national responsibility we need to implement here. It is therefore a matter of reducing the factor of work. It is also about the NEOS with this concept that we adhere to this Paris climate agreement. It is also about NEOS that we relieve the factor of work with this CO2 steering and that we are working here, above all – and this has to be for your good – sustainable. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] They praised the 2030 strategy in this way: There are measures in it to promote development, but there are no steering measures in it, only the expansion of support at all levels. These are measures that are not sustainable and do not produce a steering effect. That's why we are!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e7788	The next item is Mr Andreas Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e7813	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! I would like to draw up a few principles here: First – and this has already been confirmed by various speakers today –: Climate protection is a global issue, because there are no limits. That is why it is also important – and I would like to thank our Environment Minister for her commitment to the EU Presidency – to try to achieve a common European environmental policy, a common line in climate protection. She has already explained the successes that have been achieved here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] A small comment on the Swedish example: It should always be said that there is nuclear power in Sweden. In this context, there is also a CO2 tax which is taxing the middle class. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now speaking mainly to the esteemed colleagues of NEOS: I also believe that we have a common principle which, in summary, means: Economy and ecology depend on each other. The new president also spoke of sustainability as an essential part of the NEOS programme. She also said that we should take our parliamentary role seriously, and I would like to document here that we are doing so. We have tabled an amendment which we have discussed together with the honourable Members, first and foremost with Niki Scherak. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is because we pressed the stop button!]] I can read it very briefly so that all interested citizens also know what we are talking about. This amendment reads as follows: The "Federal Constitutional Law on Sustainability, Animal Protection, Comprehensive Environmental Protection, Water and Food Supply and Research" is to be amended. And that's... ‘The Republic of Austria [...] has become a sustainable and competitive economic location as a prerequisite for prosperity and employment.’ [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I can now also make the statement of reasons. I am already very excited about the reason for this joint amendment, which contains the word sustainability and we acknowledge that there should be a consensus between economy and ecology as a chance for the future, now does not really want to decide. [[Abg. Scherak: Are you seriously asking?]] – Yes, I ask seriously, because until now it has been so that NEOS have always said on this question: We don't want an exchange business, we don't want a junk animation. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Jarolim.]] We are talking here about a Constitutional Act which now has nothing to do with the EIA law in the dimension. Now I am curious to learn what group will prevail at NEOS, and above all how you will deal with exchange transactions in the future. We've known that we don't want to, and from your side it has always been. We are in favour of this – that is why we voted in favour of the postponement request yesterday – and we are very grateful to you for inviting you to discuss this matter in a few weeks, perhaps, in order to be able to decide on this common overarching objective of the state, which is important in this House too. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's where you have to do that accordingly...!]] Because – I repeat –: Economy and ecology depend on each other and should not exclude themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e7894	The next item is Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. – Ladies and gentlemen, you still have a 2 minute remaining speaking time. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e7921	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear visitors! I find what happened here today very exciting, especially when I look at the FPÖ. The FPÖ has gleamed with speeches with which, in my view, it has not taken the issue of climate protection very seriously. Mr Rauch has started to compare climate change with the internal climate in the Pilz list. I honestly say that the internal climate in the Pilz list does not matter to me, but for my generation and for all subsequent generations the issue of climate protection is essential, and you compare it with the internal climate of a group! It's just polemic, nothing else! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Rauch has also made the effort to calculate how much it costs when everyone comes here. Apart from the fact that this bill, I think, is not quite true, but it was put down: If you are so important about how much CO2 we emit, think about it and calculate how much CO2 is generated by the congestion due to the extension of border controls at the Austrian external borders! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] Then let us discuss this, thank God tomorrow. These are things that are much more essential. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Hafenecker has started with the importance of climate protection, and has then also talked about unnecessary transport. Climate protection is an important issue, and the transport that comes about when we go here and take parliamentarianism seriously is quite reasonable and important for our democracy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] Mr Ottenschlager, you just talked about how everything went from your point of view. It is beautiful and good and very important to write sustainability into the Constitution, and we would have been there too. But if you simultaneously publish legislative drafts with which you step the sustainability with feet, then that's not the style we want, and then it doesn't help sustainability either. We will continue to fight for sustainability and will do so with you or without you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e7989	Mr Efgani Dönmez is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8017	High Bureau! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Believers in the gallery and at home! We have to import two thirds of the energy required in Austria, and foreign dependence is more than 53 percent, which is higher than the EU average, and we spend around 10 billion euros a year on energy imports. If we manage to get out of this dependence as quickly as possible, this is not only good for the climate, for CO2 emissions, but also good for peace in the world. If we focus on where and why most of the war is going on, then this is the fight for less-growing resources in oil and natural gas. I am annoyed by the fact that I am driving my car to the gas station, not only because of the high tax burden, because it is about 60 per cent in petrol and 54 per cent in diesel VAT and CUSTOMS, but I am even more angry because I, like every Austrian and every European, finance injustice regimes such as Saudi Arabia, which crush people with a living body. That must be an end, and therefore a well thought-out climate policy is also a thought-out peace policy! But we do not need to give in to an illusion, this transition will not go unbloodfully, the fight for the remaining resources will intensify. That must also be fully aware of us, and that is why it is important: The sooner and the faster we get out of this dependence, the more everyone will benefit from it. In particular, it will be a win-win situation for Europe and Austria. As a Upper Austrian, I would also like to say that in Upper Austria, we also have excellent companies that have a huge know-how in this area in addition to the University of Economics and Energy Technology. We can also export this knowledge, this technical advantage to other countries. This is where huge markets open up. The task of policy must be to create the framework conditions for our businesses in order to create a leap into these markets. I am not speaking now of outside European borders, we are looking towards Bosnia, we are looking towards Romania, we are looking for Greece: Most of the population there does not have a functioning waste management, there are most precarious environmental standards there. I am not talking about pollution, but the environment is being damaged. In this regard, we have a technological edge of knowledge and can and must create the conditions for our companies to sell this knowledge, so that CO2 emissions and environmental pollution can also be reduced in these countries. In 2016 alone, we have mined 4 030 million tonnes of coal in Europe – Germany and Poland. This coal is not mined so that it can then be left on top of a pile, but it is led to the production of energy, to the production of electricity. Before we think that we continue to harass and burden drivers even more, it would be more efficient to work together here to ensure that these coal-fired power plants are really replaced as quickly as possible by environmentally friendly technologies. We still have a CO2 budget of between 1 000 and 1 500 million tonnes of CO2 in Austria by 2050, which we can still issue. But if we continue consumption at this pace and to this extent, we have reached this limit in a maximum of 20 years. In other words, we need to focus massively and very quickly on environmentally efficient technology and on the measures that are taking the path. The valued Minister also raised some very important and essential points in her speech. I can only wish you and the Federal Government all the best in this way. The former Federal Government had set itself the goal of creating 100 000 jobs in the environment and the environment. I hope that this promise will be fulfilled and implemented this time, because it would be good for the country, the people and also the climate. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8072	Mrs. Elisabeth Köstinger has now come to speak. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8096	Madam President. Honourable Members! As we are now coming to the end of this debate, I should like to speak briefly and thank you very much for the meeting today. I am convinced that we need to take every opportunity to raise awareness of the really burning situation surrounding climate change, and really need to raise awareness that every individual in Austria can also contribute to climate protection. We will do this on the part of the Federal Government and pool all our efforts accordingly. But I can also take the floor again because I have to correct some of the statements. It is not true that we have no budget for the fight against climate change. Almost 700 million euros are available in my department, which we have available for environmental protection, water protection, and above all for climate protection. What is different now is that we are increasing funding efficiency, promoting innovation and, above all, giving priority to investment. That's the goal, and we just won't need more money, but we'll use it better. We have committed ourselves to this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would also like to address one point because it has been discussed several times today. The topic of innovation is one of the key points in the #mission 2030. I can only highlight the subject of bioeconomics. We are currently setting up a great bioeconomic strategy, and that means no more and no less than that In the future, we will put our society on the rails without oil. This means that we also need alternatives. We have them, which grow in part in Austria really at the window. That's what we're going to do together. One important issue is also the circular economy. The more we understand how to make waste a real resource, the more we will also reconcile our economic and environmental aspects. As the third topic of this innovation, I can address Green Finance. In the future, we will ensure that every company also understands that private investment, entrepreneurial investment, will again be compatible with climate change protection. This means that we really mobilise private capital and not only have the public hand, but both. I should also like to stress once again, I think, Mrs Duzdar has mentioned this: It is also a social question. They blamed us for not doing anything for the cities, or especially for making policies against the cities. The exact opposite is the case. Do you know who the main victims of climate change are? – persons, old people, sick people living in partially poorly isolated community buildings, which are massively affected by the heat days. Together with the Climate and Energy Fund, we have presented a report on climate change and health, and this is exactly what this report highlights: Those who cannot afford to have, for example, a house in the green, but live in social housing are mainly affected. Our entire commitment applies to them. Secondly, they also said that transport and mobility should become more expensive. This would mean that only a few empires have real mobility. This is not the approach of this Federal Government. We want to rebuild the mobility system, we really want to provide it with CO2-neutral and low CO2 emissions, so that everyone in Austria can continue to live this mobility. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Last but not least: At some point in this debate, the word Ozone has also fallen off the sides of the opposition. For me, this shrinking of the ozone hole is one of the best examples that apparently irreversible trends can be reversed very well if you recognize the signs of time and if you especially design the steering instruments in the right direction. This is one of the best examples with which we all grew up more or less and grew up. It also shows that climate change protection and the fight against climate change must not be a burden, but can also very well produce a positive effect, that those who are sitting in schools today really think about what they can contribute once so that we can also succeed in protecting the climate and limiting global warming. This gives me personal hope, and we will definitely do everything from the government to give the world to our children better than we found them. Let's do this together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8166	Mrs Dipl.-Ing.in Bissmann is speaking on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8188	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Lie- be spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! I think it is nice and absolutely positive that after my excretion, the list of mushrooms approaches my core topic of climate protection. Whether today's appointment has been the right one, be it? It would have been more climate friendly to combine today's special meeting with tomorrow's meeting. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I am also pleased that last year my activity in the field of climate protection was appreciated by some colleagues from FPÖ and ÖVP. I firmly assume that it was meant to be honest and not to use the list of mushrooms. It really has no theme more important for humanity than climate change. If we master this challenge, this can become the constituent exercise of a solidarity world community. In Austria, we have an ambitious sustainability minister and a climate strategy. I have been wondering, however, since the government was fishing every day, why our Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is categorically excluding the topic of climate protection in his politics and rhetoric. Is he afraid of voters? Climate change can be such a wonderful thing. Intelligently communicates and manages correctly, he creates jobs and strengthens the economic location and therefore costs no voter. We can turn the greatest threat to humanity, the dangerous climate change, into the greatest opportunity to bring about the miracle. It is precisely this view that the over 200 participants of the first and only surveys of the National Council of this legislative period, the climate survey "Mission2030", dated 23. May 2018. Representatives from science, practice, politics, economy and environmental organisations from all over Austria have made this survey here in the Hohe Haus the largest climate protection summit of 2018 in Austria. I would like to express my warmest thanks to the ÖVP Parliamentary Club, which was very cooperative and constructive in the survey preparations. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] My team, first of all Hannes Bauer and I, was still able to reclaim additional industry representatives of renewable energy at the time and claim a few industry representatives of fossil energy. Unfortunately, this survey was not transmitted by live stream, although we fought very much for it. This is unfortunate and incomprehensible, but climate protection affects every of the nine million people who live in that country. For this reason, I would like to take the opportunity to focus the headlights before the National Council meeting on a subject that has been very prominent throughout the entire survey: a climate change and consumer-friendly conversion of our tax system. According to the Stenographical Protocol – the esteemed colleagues make an excellent job – such a tax reform was undisputed by one third of the 77 speakers. [[keeping the stenographic protocol of the survey in height]] Adam Pawloff of Greenpeace brought it to the point at the survey. He said: “ Ladies and gentlemen, the fossil age we will only end if things finally cost what they’re costing.” Dr. Heinrich Kopetz of Energypeace clearly sees that the “main parameter for our emissions” is the “oil price”, “and it follows from this: Only with a tax conversion can we achieve the Paris goals.” Erwin Mayer, energy and democracy experts, very clearly discussed at the survey the aspect of income neutrality: that it is definitely a “transformation” and not a “more burden” for consumers. The climate coordinator of the city of Vienna DDr. Christine Fohler-Norek, SPÖ Federal Councillor Stefan Schennach, University Professor at the WU Dr. Sigrid Stagl – they all support the eco-tax reform. Even from your own ranks, these sounds come. ÖVP Landesrat Johann Seizing said literally at the survey: ‘Climate protection measures need incentive systems [...]. The best incentive is [...] an ecological tax reform, which is well thought out, well prepared, which can provide tax-based deposits and compensatory measures.’ Mrs. Federal Minister, whenever you are addressed to the eco tax in interviews, you say that the government's most important promise to the voters is discharge and not burden. The example of Sweden shows that eco-tax reform cannot necessarily burden consumers, but can even relieve them. Between 2000 and 2014, greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 21 percent in Sweden. The economy grew by 31 percent over the same period. Sweden has stronger economic growth than Austria and a significantly higher reduction in CO2 emissions than Austria. Sweden is the country which has implemented several ecological tax reforms since 1991, namely, in its own right, without an EU level. An EU-wide CO2 minimum price, as you, Mrs. Minister, are fortunately demanding it and for whom you are also committed, is not in conflict with taking a pioneering role here in Austria and in parallel with the eco-social tax reform in your own country. We've heard it today, not just once: Between the economy and the environment should stand and it can stand and stand. All we have to do is organize it smartly. The eco-tax reform is a simple instrument that simply costs the climate and does not increase the burden. Finally, allow me some pathos. I have a dream: Our Federal Government proudly announces at the World Climate Conference in Katowice in December that Austria has taken seriously the interim report, the current special report of the world climate and the weather capitals and has decided to move forward by taking up work in the country as soon as possible from January 2019 to introduce a forward-looking economic and consumer-friendly climate tax reform – tailored – in Austria, because the EU Council Presidency has shown us that we want to be a pioneer and a model. Thank you. I would like to take the opportunity to invite you to an event that is taking place in parallel today in the secondary room, in the National Library. She should have been here in this room and was outsourced due to the special meeting. It is Europe's largest innovation summit with more than 300 participants from 32 countries, and it is about the digitization of the economy, the working world, the crowd business and also about sustainability. On behalf of the founder of the crowd dialogue Europe, I can cordially invite you all. You can all go over, I'm going over now. Outside the main entrance are friendly people who accompany you. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8285	Mrs Mag.a Duzdar spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8312	In fact, I would like to correct: Mrs. Minister, I did not say that transport mobility should become more expensive. You got me wrong. I said that e-mobility, as it is present today, is not yet manageable and more or less a hobby for rich people. – That's what I said. To your commitment to the cities: I am very pleased about it and will see your actions in concrete terms and measure whether this is actually the case. [[Members of Parliament of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament: see Minutes.]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8352	Mr Erwin Angerer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8376	Madam President. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bißmann said that it would have been ecologically useful to put together the two special sessions. Unfortunately, this does not allow for the Rules of Procedure. However, it is essential to have these two meetings held at all. This would have been even more ecologically meaningful. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Wittmann and Mr Meinl-Reisinger.]] We are dealing with a urgent request for climate protection today. This is a very important issue, but I believe we are of the opinion that we cannot solve this problem at national level, but that it can only be solved at European and worldwide, international level. The Austrian Government, with the Minister, does its homework, which is also recorded in the government programme and which is implemented accordingly. You have told us today that you are all there on foot or by bike, and I hope you do not wear all the ecological catastrophe in the truest sense of the word and your helmets do not come from China and that the bodies, the t-shirts you like to wear are made of Austrian sheep wool. I'd like that to be the case. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: How original!]] Then there is a SPÖ request – by the new chairman, Mrs Pamela Rendi-Wagner – on ‘10 points programme against climate change’. I would now like to speak on three points. The demand for an energy research billion is quite useful. [[Abg. Easy: Well, then you're right!]] To this end, I would like to say that in the double budget of this government there are as many funds for research and development as never before – no government has previously provided more funds than this government has. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The next call is very exciting – it is a pity that Mrs Rendi-Wagner is not here now, I hope she does not do the same as Mr. Kern, he has not done well that he has never been at the meeting –: They call for a “social-rightly rehabilitation offensive”, “the promotion of rehabilitation and heating exchange must be increased dramatically”. – I say: Yeah, that makes sense. I would, however, discuss this with your housing representative in Carinthia, Mrs Schaunig, because she has just pulled out of the housing support against the voices of the liberals in Carinthia. [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Go, don't be!]] So maybe you should make this request to your own housing representative in Carinthia. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Rosenkranz.]] Then the SPÖ has discovered agriculture – so now I would watch out for the ÖVP –: ‘Change to environmentally friendly agriculture’. [[Abg. Lighten up: Then let's go!]] There are, among other things, inside: "Intensive industrial mass animal husbandry" must be reduced. - That's all right. We are not all for mass animal husbandry and, and, and. Only: On the other hand, and I come from a region where the world is still in order, there are pastures, managements, small medium-sized enterprises, against the [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] They always stand up and bet that they are promoted in such a way, against the alpine farmers who still operate an ecological agriculture there and unfortunately are no longer viable. [[Abg. Plessl: That's not true!]] Then the left half also rises and says: To this beautiful ecological agriculture, where the pastures are managed, where we have the cows and the sheep, now also the wolf and the bear have to do so, because the then friendly, sweet and nice live together, the one eats grass, the other meat. [[He-Ruf]] You can imagine who's eating at the end. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] They are supposed to live happily with each other, and that is then the ecological agriculture and the recipe against mass animal husbandry. That's being promoted. This is simply completely beyond reality, as is your proposal and today's discussion of climate policy. Unfortunately, it has little to do with reality. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is not a question of saving the green tubular mushroom in detail, it is a resource-saving and sustainable management and a policy that we need to make for our country and our people in that country. That's what it's all about, and that's what this government is doing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8526	Next, Mr Magistrate. Bruno Rossmann word for word. You've got two minutes to talk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8571	Madam President. I would not address the arguments that had nothing to do with the matter or which were under the belt line, for this is the time too bad and the thing too important. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Mrs Minister, I would like to point out that: If you take the report of the IPCC, the global climate, seriously, then you need to improve your climate and energy strategy, then we must also redefine and redefine the objectives at European level. That's why we won't come around. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Everything else will cause us to slid into a situation that will result in irreversible damage. That is why I would like to break a lance for the eco-social tax reform in the remaining time. Mrs. Minister! I do not understand what you have against the introduction of an environmental tax. They never bring arguments. I once had a conversation with my colleague Christiane Brunner about two years ago with a high-ranking politician, and he mentioned to me two reasons or two names against an ecologization of the tax system; one was OMV, the second Voestalpine. Mrs. Minister, I'm making an offer to you now. I invite you, together with industrial representatives, to discuss the specific model I presented in August, and to see if this model is implemented step by step, something that our industry can do. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] That's the only way we'll get on with it. Without an eco-social tax reform, we will not continue in the matter of climate protection. And, Mr Deimek, I'm right. Your pendler's example is fine for me, but I'm not saying it's the only instrument. Of course, there is also a need for the expansion of public transport at the same time.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8625	Deputies! You must come to the end of the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8641	So: Please act! Now!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8668	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Andreas Schieder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8692	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Minister, I have listened very closely to your two speeches. I'm just a little skeptical: I share the analysis, but I miss the actions of the government. And hoping that today's students will deal with the environmental issue and then, if they're in politics, they'll finally do something, is too little. I have to say that quite honestly. The experience of this summer alone shows, Mrs. Minister: After last summer it was again the hottest summer since recording the temperatures and climate changes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] We know that on our mountains the glaciers go back a few meters each year and shrink. Every year we have more munitions and other such incidents. [[Abg. Singer: That's never been there before!]] We already have towns and villages suffering from water scarcity. The wine growers – where is the colleague who first spoke? – everyone can tell you: Climate change arrives in the vineyard. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Singer.]] The miners suffer particularly and therefore we are clearly in favour of more support for the miners – the colleague who spoke there at first. Any gardener can confirm it to you. 586 Heat kills alone in one year. We know that the difference, whether the temperature on Earth is increased by 1.5 degrees or 2 degrees, is very fundamental. The insects and plants that disappear do not make up 6 per cent, but 18 per cent, the coral reefs do not disappear to 70 per cent, but to 100 per cent. What we need is a slow, gradual departure from fossil fuels. Why, Mrs Minister, have you blocked in Europe the implementation of an ambitious CO2 reduction target of 40 per cent by 2030? They have blocked this, and that in a country like Austria, even though we are a pioneer in technology, which could also make our use of these strict rules, because we have the best engineers, the best companies, to be able to compete with our environmental technology on the market. I don't understand. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] Mrs. Minister, Austria must be a pioneer, and Austria has now become a braker in Europe, precisely on these environmental issues. At Glyphosate, Austria was the braker against the ban. Neonicotinoide: Austria was the braker against the restriction and the ban. Bee death has been ignored because Austria has slowed down. We have always been so proud of the fine food shop, of the pioneer in organic farming, of ecotourism, but we risk this good position if we continue to do nothing, Mrs. Minister. It is not only a global problem, it is also a problem of Austria, of our tourism, of our agriculture. Ask the hail insurance! Every year, there is more damage due to climate change. Finally, it is about acting, taking the opportunity to do the right thing in the change and also being socially fair. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister! They believe that the market will regulate this – it doesn't play, it won't happen! The market will not address these issues socially fairly, but only unsocially. That is why it takes action, and as a minister, you bear the responsibility to act, and should not tell us here how to do it, but not do it yourself. That's too little! It's gonna get hotter every year and we're all going to suffer. Let us accept this challenge and take the opportunity! Let's do something! Be a pioneer in Europe again! That would be good.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8756	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 404/A(E)) by Mr Magn. Rossmann, colleagues on “Protect climate – now!” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Zadić, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘UN-Migration Pact – sign now!’ Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Rendi-Wagner, colleagues on '10-point programme against climate change'. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[14:07:22]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2018-10-18-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00041_d7e8814	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 404/A(E) to 408/A. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Friday, 19. October 2018, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. Before I close this meeting, I would like to inform you, at least the members of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, that they are now meeting in the local 7 area. I would also point out that the Subcommittee of the Foreign Policy Committee is taking place at 2.30 p.m. in the Burgraum of the Hofburg Segmental Arch. The sitting is closed.
