ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2271	Ladies and gentlemen! I can do the 13th. The European Council held a meeting of the National Council. This was due to a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of the 9th and the 10ths. Meeting of 28. ==References====External links== Meeting of 1. On 1 March 2018, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Board. Members who have been prevented from attending today's meeting are Berlakovich, Gahr, Grünberg, Lopatka, Obernosterer, Smodics-Neumann, Androsch, Krist, Muchichch, Wittmann, Hauser, Schellhorn and Cox. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2302	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellor's Office made the following communication on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and Exterior Dr. Karin Kneissel is represented by the Federal Minister for Defence Mario Kunasek and the Federal Minister for Sustainability and Tourism Elisabeth Köstinger by the Federal Minister for Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice Josef Moser. [[10:18:05]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2347	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2500	I shall also inform you that the Third Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. [[10:18:23]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2522	Deputies Mag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the request made at the beginning of the meeting was Written question 507/J by Mr Mag. Cores, colleagues and colleagues at the Federal Minister for the Interior on “Anxious transactions at the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism (BVT) – Corruption allegations, evidence of mobbing and likely disproportionate house searches” are urgent. The call for urgent request will take place at 1.15 p.m. I announce that the meeting of ORF 2 will be broadcast live from 13:15 a.m. to 4 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. I can therefore interrupt the sitting until 1.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2567	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the audience gallery and valued ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the televisions! I'm allowed to start the interrupted session again. [[13:16:34]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Christian Kern, colleagues at the Federal Minister for the Interior on “Awaresome transactions at the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism Control (BVT) – Corruption allegations, evidence of mobbing and likely disproportionate house searches” (507/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2600	We come to the urgent discussion of the written question 507/J. As this has been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3050	Perhaps I can only make a request: Since the subject of this urgent question of state protection and therefore is a very sensitive one, since the issue of security is a central promise of the state to its people and the security is the basis for all of our freedom at the end, I would like to remind you once again that the people have a very high confidence in the three pillars of our democratic Republic: the legislative, the executive and the judicial. We all want this confidence to be maintained in this sense and scope. Parliament is the place of education, discussion, questions and answers. But this is not only about what, but also about how. I would therefore like to ask you to look at this issue with the necessary substance and with a view to To approach respectfully and also to demonstrate through this discussion that our people are right to have this high trust. I give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Mag. Core as the first questioner for the reasons of the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3083	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We know that the Austrian federal constitution guarantees us the protection of fundamental rights of freedom. The police and the security authorities have a particularly prominent role to play in ensuring these fundamental and freedom rights. People in our country depend on functioning institutions that guarantee their security, and the security device, in turn, depends on the people in our country to trust him. Mr. Federal Minister, you didn't need 100 days in office to have this trust in a sustainable way in question. It has not taken 100 days to raise doubts as to whether you are able to bring about this trust of the Austrian population – or whether you are willing. What we're experiencing here is a political game on the back of security, a game that our citizens and the police that hold their bones every day don't deserve. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] In recent weeks, they have chosen an approach that has led to the fact that the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism has been completely paralysed, and even worse: This has also caused the international reputation of our security institutions to be damaged. This is not a small matter, because it is a question of combating terrorism now being a cross-border task; hence, this international loss of trust is a real loss of security for the Austrians. The Federal Government has tried several times in the form of different people in recent days to provide information. I and many citizens have been given the impression that after each of these performances more questions were to be answered than before, that they have been involved in contradictions, that information has been given in the form of salamitactics and at least no contribution has been made to the education. I refer to the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice, who did not repeat until yesterday that the proportionality of the search for the house should be questioned in his opinion. If one considers this process very briefly, one can understand these doubts of the Secretary-General in the Ministry of Justice. This house search was initiated by organizing a search warrant by half an 11 on the eve of the night. Federal Minister Moser, Minister of Justice, said: That was necessary because danger was in delay! A few hours later, the facts presented themselves as follows: It has already been known that since October in the incriminated cases has been determined, and the head of the BAT has been at the latest 2. It is clear from February that it has already been established – that is to say, the justification is a risk of delay, with leave, limited credibility. How does the Minister of Justice react to this, a few hours later? – He says there was a danger of data deletion. Even without too much technical expertise, the question arises why the potential remote extinguisher has not simply been deprived of administrative rights. There are a large number of smaller and larger questions which reveal a completely different situation: It seems that we have not chosen the most appropriate means, because it has also been a matter of creating maximum attention, of ensuring maximum intimidation among the investigating officials. The Federal Ministry of the Interior has apparently not felt quite comfortable with this situation itself. They then apparently realized in the course of the course how all this will work for the citizens; then it was said that only one connex was brought with the four witnesses, a connex with the prosecutor's office. Remarkably, the Ministry of Justice then pointed out: No, it was a hard-to-hand ad! One day later, we found that this announcement was made by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior and staff of your cabinet, Minister Kickl, bringing these witnesses to the prosecutor's office. The question raised is: Why not put the facts on the table in the same way, but admit it only when it was no longer avoidable? This story has another remarkable aspect of the page. The witnesses are not known, they have used the right to anonymity according to § 162 of the Criminal Code. [[Abg. Kassinger: ‘Strafgesetzordnung’?]] This paragraph regulates that people should get this protection if they are afraid of body and life. The question that arises then is of course: What does this mean, because of data deletions that have taken place or have not been done, does anyone fear body and life, because of three passports that have gone to South Korea, does someone fear body and life? – Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, you really need to be informed, there are questions in this context without number. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] One of the most interesting points – even that has already been discussed publicly – is the question of who and how these house searches have been carried out. It has been decided to use the deployment group to combat street crime. Remarkable is the reason why it is precisely them, because, in the reverse, it means that one could not trust the Federal Office for Corruption, one could not trust the Cobra because there is an established ÖVP man of the chief. That means that the following thing happens: They simply withdraw trust from the half security equipment, the BAT, the Cobra and the Federal Office for the fight against corruption. Mr. Minister, I ask you all seriously: If you do not already trust these units of the security apparatus, how should our citizens still have confidence in these institutions? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There's another aspect that I'd definitely say is depressing: The head of the deployment group to combat street crime is a well-known FPÖ trade union and politician. Yesterday it became apparent which political attitude this man represents, which content he posts on the Internet and spreads on Facebook. [[Abg. Gudenus: Family...!]] The remarkable thing is if you look at it, I tell you honestly, it turns around your stomach. [[Abg. Gudenus: In your remarks too!]] That's anti-Semitic shit, that's racist hetze, that's even material that the rich have spread. Mr President, Mr Sobotka, knows how often we have been sitting in the Council of Ministers and how we have been considering how to get hold of these people who are endangering the state order – and a chief representative of the police continues to post and distribute this content and is then also assigned to carry out these house searches. – Mr Minister, try to explain this to a citizen or a citizen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as with representatives of NEOS and List Pilz.]] What happens here is the following: We are just going to witness a power struggle that is being conducted on an open stage between ÖVP and FPÖ-near rope companies in the Ministry of the Interior. [[call to the FPÖ.]] We have a ping-pong game between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior when it comes to pushing responsibility to the other. The losers in all these processes are the police who do their work every day, the people in our country are the internal security. My point is: I do not want you to think that this is a political overcoloration, no, I suggest that there has been a sustainable damage to the security device. [[Call the FPÖ:No!]] It's much worse than just discoloration. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you look closely at this matter, you can see a second problem. We all know that the BAT had the task of fighting extremism – extremism from all sides, including right-wing extremism. In this responsibility, for example, the BAT has observed the Congress of the Defenders of Europe, for example, has observed Internet platforms such as uncensored.at; and there is an interesting connex, as there is indeed a connex, namely that you, Mr. Federal Minister, occurred last year at this Congress, which has been under BAT observation for extremism. There is also the connection that the editor-in-chief of uncensored.at now works in your cabinet – again someone who has apparently been observed for anti-constitutional conversions. The interesting question, of course, is what is in these reports, which is what the observation results are and who may still be involved. The head of the Extremism Unit was conducted as a witness in this process, and it seems that a number of data have been seized, which are originally related to her work. Interestingly, at the beginning of this discussion it was said that no data had been confiscated at all by the Ministry of the Interior. Then it said: Well, the confiscation of the data was not our goal!, and then the ex-chief editor of uncensored.at, now your cabinet employee, went on the plan and claimed that it was all fake news – just to realize that data was taken away, of course, not a few sheets of paper, but mobile phones, PCs, dozens of DVDs, CDs, hard drives and the like. [[Abg. Rosary: From BMI?]] The exciting question that moves us all now is: What happens to these data and who can ensure that there is no abuse yet? In any case, the effect has succeeded that this has been a more than intimidating approach, which ultimately puts pressure on those who are to combat right-wing extremism. It is a signal to the right scene that this can undoubtedly give a lot of self-confidence again. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Kolba.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The unfortunate thing is, Mr Minister, that this not only endangers security, but also gives you a signal that police are being intimidated, determined against right-wing extremism. The question of responsibility, of course, is above all that. We all know very well that the Ministry of the Interior has been led by an ÖVP minister for 18 years, and when it came to taking responsibility, we have experienced that – hardly surprisingly – we have been working again according to the usual pattern: The Federal Chancellor was not responsible for anything at all, has declared himself incompetent, and Mr. Vice-Chancellor has posted via Facebook that this is a state in the state, so if one wants to do so, still pour oil into the fire. This will be interesting because you both have received a reporting line directly to the intelligence services in the Federal Ministry Act. The question that arises from this is: How did you actually take responsibility? What have you actually done in the last few weeks and days to prevent these conditions and give the Austrians the necessary security? A captain, we learned, goes off the bridge as the last one, and he does that before he has dropped a tweet to save himself in the submarine. [[Abg. Gudenus: Say the elected Federal Chancellor!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] To take responsibility in a family, for example, means to draw consequences and to ensure that abuses are stopped, problems are corrected. [[Abg. New builder: Silver stone!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, if you do not, then this will take over the opposition in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3271	To answer the question, the Federal Minister for the Interior spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - I give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3292	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Klubobmann Kern, I have been listening to you for 20 minutes now, and I come to a conclusion: Now it's time we came to the facts and put aside conspiracy theories. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] What you and some other than a BAT scandal call or what you seem to be talking about, at any cost, of anything to me – you are always making new swings, you are always making new curves, and you are always drawing new theories from your hat – because this is in fact a proper procedure for the rule of law, and much more; it is one in which all the relevant decisions have been made by the competent court. If anyone in a more coined herb-and-rue-wirrwarr mixes the competences between the interior and the judicial resort, then I would have forbearance; but if this is done by a former Federal Chancellor of this Republic, Mr. Kern, and I address you, then it is simply and very embarrassing. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] That was a correct legal procedure. I've been wondering: Mr. Kern, Mr. Schieder and all the others: What kind of problem do you have with that? [[Abg. Arbitrators:... give answers!]] That makes me a little stupid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] I mean, I know that you are disturbed by the fact that there is a blue Minister of the Interior who goes here and ensures that asylum and immigration are strictly separated from one another. That bothers you! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It bothers you that there is someone in the interior area who makes sure that the little police don't get under the wheels, but in the future it will be taken care not to insult them without punishment and to vilify them. [[Abg. Arbitrators: On the matter! Mr President, on the matter!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] That bothers you, and it bothers you that you are being deported to Afghanistan. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would have thought, Mr Klubobmann Kern, that we have a common fight against corruption in this country. I am no longer convinced that the fight against corruption is also yours, after what you have given the best here again. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Do you know, Mr. Kern, what makes me so proud of all this? – In some media and also by you, those who contribute to the investigation of crimes are put down as if they were the perpetrators; and those who are led there as accused by an extensive investigation of the prosecutor's office are then the poor victims. You don't mind, Mr. Kern? You don't mind? That looks a little strange, I'd like to say. Now one could come up with the idea that someone here is trying to stop conscientious officials from taking any perceptions they have in the field of corruption and the abuse of office, Mr. Kern – that is how it looks! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, it is also very, very strange when those who otherwise try, quite honestly and sincerely, to uphold data protection in this country, to protect the fundamental and freedom rights of people against state violations, to protect against the state apparatus, then are those who are excited about the fact that an investigation procedure against data abuse is being carried out in a highly sensitive area. There's something wrong with that. Why, ladies and gentlemen, are these things being bagatized when data protection is so important to you? Something else makes me a little stupid: As a result, individual journalists and individual politicians, the otherwise simple police officers in this country for comparatively small things to the Pranger, face media convictions in order not to say that they are directing them media, go and become a protection pattern for the head of an office, not me, but the prosecutor says that he is being led as a suspect; not me, Mr. Kern. [[Abg. Schieder:... Presseberger!]] This is a rather strange matter. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Patience, Lord Arbitrator!]] Therefore, you and your colleague Schieder come and discredit and dissuade a rule of law with an entire canonade of negative vocabulary “putsch”, “Intrig”, “Machtergriffung”, “Machtfach”, “ Umffarbung”, et cetera, et cetera. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] You know what? – Not one of these terms applies to the facts, but precisely this scandalization of a rule of law, the scandalization of a legal process in the fight against corruption, which is the scandal we are dealing with, Mr. Kern, and nothing else. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'm telling you one stone and it's clear: You're not gonna kill me. And I'll tell you something more about it. I'll lead my ministry in accordance with the law and not in any way, as it might have driven you as Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Kuntzl: You should answer!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] I have a different style. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Wortwahl!]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr. Kern, what you are doing here under the cover of political enlightenment: You're really running a left-wing game here. You're running a left-wing game here, and you're doing the following: They shall carry out any damage to officials who are loyal, conscientious, committed and impartial in respect of the tasks assigned to them, in accordance with the applicable legal situation. Have you thought about it before, Mr. Kern? That would be your share of responsibility. [[Call the SPÖ: Think about who really does damage!]] I am talking about the employees of the BAT, of the many – of the many, of the hundreds – who are not subject to any suspicion, Mr. Kern. By the way: In contrast to you and to many others on the political left, I have always held up the presumption of innocence to those who are suspected. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] For you, the suspicion of innocence was something you laughed at when it fit into the political concept. That's the difference. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators:... Rules of Procedure! Where are we?]] [[Abg. Gudenus: In Parliament, Mr Schieder!]] I am also talking about the EGS unit, which has done nothing but carry out a clean and correct task of the responsible prosecutor's office – and it was successful above all. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Yes, then follow the rules.]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And – I am also saying that – I am also talking about the prosecutors and the judges involved in this procedure, which you are rendering a bear service here, because: [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Reply! Answer me!]] How do all these people come to have to fall into falsehoods, harsh conspiracy theories, and submissions? They put all these people in a bad light because they are subject to a party-political abuse of office. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Reply! Answer me, please!]] You don't have a single proof because there's no one. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the discreditation of the security device in this country that you have criticised. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What has happened in the case of BAT is a process as provided for by our rule of law and by our rule of law, in keeping with the point and conclusion of the law, carried out by those bodies that provide for it our constitution and the simple legal regulations. An example: Obituary; § 78 of the Criminal Procedure Order will be known to you, Mr. Kern. You can make yourself here again and say that for She didn't pay for it as a federal chancellor. [[Abg. Arbitrator: What's the matter, please?]] It is valid for us as the Supreme Authority of the Service, and that is why it has been done as it has been done. The WKStA finds out that she is the master of the trial – now I am again at your drager and driver between the interior and the justice sector – she assesses the quality of witnesses and the evidence of the facts, and she determines what to do, and the police have to do what the WKStA tells her, and not vice versa – § 98 of the Criminal Procedure Order, by the way. It is sad that you do not know this as the former Federal Chancellor of this Republic. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] Then there is a house search, ordered by the competent prosecutor. Why this unit has done this, read in §§ 20 para. 2, 98 and 102 of the Criminal Code! And this is supposed to be a coup, Mr. Kern?- Oh, my God! Is that supposed to be a coup?- Oh, my God! So, ladies and gentlemen, continue: Mr. Klubobmann accused me in the “Kurier” that I would like to get rid of misguided people and replace them with partygoers. You know what? . I do not even have something against Mr Gridling, not at all. [[Abg. Arbitrators: “Not even ”?- Oh, my God!]] I myself have proposed to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany for the extension, and I have brought him as a trust and as an information person in committees where you have been eaten against me. But do you know what the problem is? – The prosecution has something against Mr. Gridling, and what does it have against him? – Apparently enough suspicions to lead him to the present day as accused. And in such a sensitive position, where the security of the Austrian population is concerned, should I continue to control and control such a person?- Oh, my God! That's your idea of a working security device?! After good night, Mr. Klubobmann Kern! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The speakers of the SPÖ can take advantage of the opportunity to name all the names I have changed so far. There are about 33,000 officials in the field of BMI, you can't call me one. Not even the interim leader now used by me represents a recoloration, and the other persons whose names are spirited in the public are never available for this position. One last point before I answer your questions in detail: The foreign intelligence services and the security of Austria, because trust is no longer given, worry you. Call me a representative of these institutions who says this aloud in public! [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ, NEOS and list fungus.]] Come on. But they do not come here and call on any insiders or well-informed circles, because, Mr. Kern, this knowledge of insiders or well-informed circles is always used if you want to represent any dubious claims as facts. That's how it looks in this thing. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Even if you do not agree, the security of Austria is not at risk simply because five officials are suspected of a crime, with an apparatus of over 33 000. As regards cooperation with other countries: This, of course, continues on a very good basis. And something else comes to it: Our partners in the field of security are interested in having a reliable BAT as a partner. [[Abg. Jarolim: That's it! That's it!]] That is why it is necessary to clear these things out, and that is what justice is responsible for and nobody else in our country! So let the justice do their job! That's her job, Mr. Klubobmann's core! That's her job. Then I'll just give you one more research committee: If it is so important to you that you keep your trust internationally, if you want the BAT and the Republic of Austria to be an important security partner, then you should think twice about whether it makes sense to bring any other areas out of the field of activity of the BAT into such a committee beyond the investigations that are now leading the prosecutor's office, and thus perhaps make sure that then some really secret files ball around at a Peter Pilz under the brake. If this is a contribution to safety, you should really think about it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is also a strong piece to which Parliament is bound by its right!]] Now to answer your questions: Questions 1 to 4: In the course of the cooperation with the WKSTA, an operational meeting took place on 27.2.2018, at the Secretary-General Mag. Goldgruber and a cabinet employee as well as the dubious prosecutor and her group leader participated. As a result, the proposal was adopted by the WKSTA to entrust the deployment group to the fight against street crime, in short EGS, to the security of the planned house searches. I was aware that the aforementioned operational meeting is taking place. The question of the conduct of the house search was dealt with exclusively by the WKSTA. The EGS was used for securing and as an auxiliary body. Their commander Preiszler received the information necessary for this order in the aforementioned operational meeting, which related only to the time and places of use. The principle of safeguarding inconsistency applies, therefore, to an organisational unit which has no contact points with the investigations of the WKStA carried out by the planned house searches. Secretary-General Goldgruber had previously received his documents on 18 June. January 2018 contacted WKSTA and handed over the convolut. The allegations were known to the WKSTA and a procedure under the criminal procedure was already pending. I was informed by Secretary General Goldgruber about this step. Question 5: No, no, no, The officials of the EGS were adjusted for these operations in civilian clothing, without storm hoods, long-arms, overlaid vests or helmets, and carried the standard equipment, the Glock 17 service gun and under-returned vests, some also police-recognition jackets. On question 6: The house searches were conducted by WKSTA prosecutors. Question 7: 35 officials were used to secure house searches in the BAT, 23 in private homes, 58 in total. Questions 8 to 13: These issues fall within the jurisdiction of the judicial body. [[Abg. New builder: They don't even know that!]] In addition, opinions and assessments relating to question 9 are not covered by Parliament's right of interconnection and are not subject to enforcement. Question 14: I can confirm the statements. The executive staff were engaged in securing the house searches conducted by the WKSTA so that no items could be taken aside. Question 15: A convoy of anonymous accusations involving the suspicion of various criminal acts against BMI staff. On the question 16: The Witnesses were accompanied by the professional staff of the cabinet, not by two, as a trusted person, at the explicit request of the two witnesses. I was aware of the placement of the first witness to the WKSTA. The mission was to establish the contact of the witnesses to the WKSTA. The fact that the staff was recruited as a trustee at the express request of the witnesses turned out to be immediately prior to the consultation and was not commissioned by me, nor was I in advance aware of it. There is no close relationship between the witnesses and the cabinet staff. On the question 17: I refer to the competence of the WKStA regarding urgency. The 2017 investigations related only to a sub-area of the facts currently examined. On the question 18: A catalogue of questions was sent to him by the Federal Criminal Office on behalf of the Vienna Procuratorate for the transfer of North Korean passport patterns in the Causa. [[Abg. What about questions 10, 11, 12, 13?]] On question 19: From the service.portal, in which service times and absences are recorded, it is no longer understandable for service managers after processing requests for absence of the chronological course. Question 20: ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links== ==References====External links== The Director-General for Public Security of Mag. Gridling. Questions 21 and 22: No, it's not usual. It was planned to make a decree on the basis of the President's resolution and to hand it over to him in the solemn context. ==References== On March 28, the decree was handed over. February, a service examination of the further procedure was carried out. The suspension was due to the following circumstances: There have been suspicions in an ongoing procedure that made this measure necessary to maintain the office's reputation. The WKSTA finds out against Director Mag. Peter Gridling for suspecting the abuse of office. The allegations refer to the direct effect of its activity in the BAT. I quote the legal requirement for suspension, § 112 Civil Service Law; after that, the Service Authority has “to have the provisional suspension of an official or an official”. On the question 23: The function has been public since 1.12.2017. Until then, she had power. Wolfgang Zöhrer. May. ==References====External links== On November 6, 2017, following the direction of BAT Director Gridling, the delegation was held by me on November 6, 2017. In March 2018, the BAT was temporarily entrusted with the BAT representative. The invitation to tender for the function has been initiated in the competent department and will be published shortly. Question 24: As a result of these official acts, three officials are currently temporarily suspended. A contract officer was exempted from the service. No disciplinary proceedings have yet been initiated against employees of the BAT. Three employees involved had leading functions. They are in the management department of the BAT director and also in the departments 2 and 3. On question 25: Whether such accusations apply is the subject of the investigations of the WKSTA. On the question 26: That's not my knowledge. I refer to the jurisdiction of the judicial body. On the question 27: The alleged transactions are subject to investigation. All necessary steps shall be taken in accordance with the results of the investigation. On the question 28: I have already contacted ambassadors from several countries and I am confident that relations at this level are intact and are being continued as before. On question 29: I refer to the competence of the WKSTA and the Federal Ministry of Justice. Question 30: All facts documented in the file management are still available and can be processed. On question 31: Opinions and assessments are not covered by Parliament's right of interpolation and not the subject of enforcement. On question 32: I can guarantee that, as a minister, I have caused everything in my power to continue to be determined unimpeded by political influences against all forms of extremist crime. On question 33: All the employees of my cabinet were – as planned – checked by the BAT security. On question 34: He did not deal with the matter in terms of content and only gained knowledge of it through the first media reports. As a result, he was involved in the preparation of a press release as well as other documents on the preparation of comments to the media. On question 35: I have Chancellors and Deputy Chancellors on the edge of the Council of Ministers on 28 November. ==References== [[See page 67]] On question 36: Since the BAK was not responsible for securing the house search under the direction of the WKStA, I did not contact the Secretary of State in advance, but with her on 7 March. A conversation on this was held on 1 March. I do not see the above-mentioned contradiction, since the WKStA can select individual employees according to the relationship of trust and expertise for the review addressed. On the question 37: No, no, no, On the question 38: The Terminus Fake News referred to the wrong media presentation of the role of EGS officials in the search of the house and the false media presentation of their equipment. This press release was approved by the press officer of my cabinet and sent by the BMI Section I/5. Question 39: Since exactly when parts of the anonymous file are present in the Ministry of the Interior, I am not aware of it. In any case, internal investigations were initiated in autumn 2017. I don't know an official entrance to the convolut. By the way, I refer to the answer to questions 1 to 4. On question 40: As Secretary-General of FPÖ since summer 2017, as Federal Minister and Supreme Ministry since January 2017. I have entrusted the Secretary-General with the examination, assessment and further guidance. Ladies and gentlemen! A final sentence: If I had acted differently, I would be here in a few months, and you would be the ones who would bring in a urgent or a special session, under the title: Kickl-Scandal – the Minister of the Interior has done nothing against him known accusations! And you know what? - Then you'd be right. In the present case, you are wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3837	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now going into the debate. I should like to draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Arbitrator is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. - I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3865	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate members of the government! In less than 100 days of your term of office, you have managed to deeply shake confidence in state security. In less than 100 days of your term of office, you have managed to massively disrupt the confidence in an extra-partial state protection body. And you have just managed, in times when legal radicalism, Islamist terrorism or terrorism is generally on the international agenda, to ensure that the essential protection for the prevention of terrorism and for the protection of our country and the constitutionally top-notch institutions is without direction. In less than 100 days of your term of office, you have managed that we do not even know who will lead this service in order to deal with the visit of 27 Heads of State or Government on the occasion of the EU Presidency in a reasonable and secure manner, as it has worked in any other country of the European Union. What we ask of you, Minister of the Interior, so that you do not deceive yourself on all your Polish zeal that you have released today, what we demand of you, is security that we can trust that the rule of law is respected, that control is ensured and that there is transparency. [[Abg. Cashier: The only one who has been jealous are you!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, all of this has been severely affected by your activities, and we have not received any answers to all of this today. On the contrary, there are many new, additional questions. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Rosary]] [[Abg. New builder: This is the problem if you can't take meaningful care of it!]] The impression that so many television viewers and newspaper viewers have and that I can't quite defend myself is that it looks like you're deliberately destroying the BAT, that protective device, because you want to choose an internal power struggle black against blue, old guard against new guard for yourself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister Kickl takes his cabinet staff and sends them out to initiate an ad and accompany a house search, that is to say, those employees who are partially identified by the BAT itself, because they are suspected and are found in situation reports, because, under democratic circumstances, not all actions, as well as all the magazines and platforms for which they have been written, fit perfectly into the Constitutional Arch. [[Abg. Höbart: “Falter”, “Standard”!]] Those against whom the BAT has written situation reports are now sent out to destroy the BAT. And as Minister, you take this as a good, happy occasion to lean back and then send the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice like last week to explain it half-way – and you hide behind it. [[short breaks on the part of the speaker]] [[Abg. Belakovich: After?]] The thought that pushes you there is that you're just trying to put your thing through. They ride with over 50 police officers, with a unit originally set up for street crime, which is on the road for safety and safety. It is intended to take care of order and it is by chance under the direction of a FPÖ politician. [[Abg. Rosary: This is the only disgusting thing you see!]] They ride out to collect sensitive data, probably the most sensitive data of our Republic, on behalf of the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Call the FPÖ:Oh! That's inconceivable! That's unheard of!]] Then remove the head of the BAT by giving him uno actu his decree that you have kept under lock for three weeks to suspend him at the same time. The Minister, Mr President, is more than questionable, and we would have expected you to clarify this a little for us today! [[Abg. Neubauer: Now we know why you have not chosen anyone in Vienna!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, however, we also note: The Ministry of Justice should be satisfied with the public appearances, it is not represented here in Parliament today, and German Chancellor Kurz, who somehow also bears responsibility for the entire Federal Government, that is, for each individual minister, including the Minister of the Interior, is silent. [[Abg. Rosary: Then you must stop asking the chancellor!]] – Dear Members of the ÖVP! The silence is not going to be enough, because at some point in time the point at which you ask yourself whether, if you are silent to everything that is going on in this republic, you are not a little bit involved. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] This is reinforced by the fact that, in the Federal Ministerial Law, an obligation to provide information to the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor has been laid down in all these questions. That is why we also desire the information from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany about what he intends to do on this question. What have we experienced today? – No answers, neither from the Minister of the Interior, nor from the Federal Chancellor absent! [[Abg. Kassinger: Then you didn't listen! Listening is, of course, a relatively difficult matter!]] The only thing we're experiencing is more polemics and more attacks, because you think attack is the best defense. – No, Minister, that is not so! As parliamentarians, we ask you: Bring light into this dark, do away the fog, give us the answers! [[Abg. Belakovich: In this dark?]] [[Abg. Kassinger: Maybe you should have prepared yourself!]] That's what this country needs: Reliability, cleanliness, confidence in the security device – make that again!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4067	Mr Werner Amon is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I can give it to him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4099	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Federal Ministers! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say at the beginning of my remarks that it is important to maintain confidence in essential state institutions, such as the public prosecutors, the judges, but also ministries such as the Ministry of the Interior, and to restore this confidence where there is no such thing. This is an essential point which I would like to address in the first place. We have been able to make Austria one of the safest countries in the world in recent years and decades. This is, of course, especially the merit of many police officers who do their job every day. We have managed in recent years to reduce the number of crime cases from 640 000 to 540 000 and to increase the rate of education from 39 percent to 46 percent. That is what I want to put at the beginning of this debate, so that there is no impression that, I believe, does not correspond to reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism has also done excellent work in recent years, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would like to refer to essential issues in this context and do so without polemics. You, ladies and gentlemen, can stay with the Polish line, but I would like to remain objective. I would like to see the Great Razzies on 28 May. Remember, which took place in Vienna, Linz and Graz and ended with a wealth of arrests long before there were attacks, for example, in Paris, precisely because our Federal Office acted in good time. In May 2015, a 15-year-old was sentenced, among other things, to a bomb attack on the Vienna Westbahnhof. In December 2015, two men were arrested in Salzburg after intensive investigations by the BVT, both being part of the IS network, which is to be responsible for the attacks in Paris and Saint-Denis with 130 dead and 683 injured. On 19.12. the BAT in Fuschl arrested a Moroccan in a refugee home; the accused should have planned a terrorist attack between Christmas and New Year's Eve 2016 in the city of Salzburg, and, until back in 2008, when the football euro took place in Austria when it succeeded in preventing attacks on the United Nations and the Parliament. I'm just saying this so that you can see the work of our police officers here in the right light, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Now we are coming to the countervailing official acts that have taken place and which one may have liked or not, regarding which one might think that this has been overwhelming, and others believe that perhaps one could have done this better in the service way in order to generate less attention, however. The defendants have turned to usury. They have gone to justice, and the judicial system will ultimately have to decide whether the proceedings in They were okay or they weren't. In any case, house searches are a massive intervention into fundamental rights; they were justified with danger in delay. I find it quite remarkable, Mr Klubobmann Kern, that you are now pouring crocodile tears and pretending that the SPÖ has nothing to do with all these official acts that have taken place there. What is the cause of these official acts? – You know very well that SPÖ party attorney Gabriel Lansky has introduced corresponding advertisements to the prosecutor’s office. The Procuratorate has subsequently examined and, on the basis of witnesses' statements, has now taken the decision that these measures are necessary. It is your SPÖ party lawyer, Mr. Kern, who has a significant share in these transactions. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] By the way, he was also your lawyer when you were OBB general director, so he would not be so far from you. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ]] And that you suddenly become a lawyer of North Korean interests, is somehow a renaissance of SPÖ policy. [[Abg. Gudenus: That is true! That's right!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: That's better than that!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Kern! One thing might also be worth mentioning: It was the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection, which has conducted investigations against your party attorney according to § 256 StGB; Investigations because the accusation in the room was that he – your SPÖ party attorney – works for foreign intelligence services. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The reverse, which has now been established, was that Gabriel Lansky has fought that allegedly the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection has not deleted data – it has fought this massively –; Data that seem to be extremely sensitive to social democracy as well. What is in this data? The question is - - yes, Mr Kern, an employee - - now will be [[Abg. Core:... You know it! So don't get unhindered now!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Core.]] You very nervous, Mr. Federal Chancellor out of service! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I understand well – but in peace: It was an employee of SPÖ party attorney Gabriel Lansky, who has given credible documents throughout the Republic – you can look up all this in the newspaper archives – in which very interesting things can be found. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Our party attorney is the Jarolim!]] [[Abg. Rosary: You certainly need more!]] There were illegal contracts that your party attorney alleged to have concluded according to these documents. It was possible to read PowerPoint presentations in the newspapers, in which Gabriel Lansky explained to his employees what state institutions would have an influence on in order to be able to act accordingly for his clientship, the Kazakh secret service. These documents, which have been reported in the media, showed that he was a representative of the Tagdyr association, which is to be an organization of the Kazakhstani secret service. These are documents that are supposed to have been read in the media, the action change 06 of your party, i.e. the rehabilitation of your party finances under the guidance of the SPÖ-anwalt Gabriel Lansky. All these are documents that Lansky fought. He claimed that these documents are not real and forgery. The courts followed him, which is why this deletion was also ordered. But it is interesting what nervousness now breaks out in this context because of these documents. You have announced that you want to set up a committee of inquiry. That's your good minority right. We have introduced the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law. The question is, I think, justified whether this is a sensible measure at the present time. I have read that the former President of the Supreme Court has also stated that she doubts whether such an investigation committee is useful now. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps there are other ways of properly examining the matter. If this Committee of Inquiry is actually used, we will cooperate intensively. Enlightenment needs to be done in every respect! Now, however, the courts and the judicial system are on the floor, and then at least the political responsibility, which goes far into your party, Mr Klubobmann Kern, would have to be examined.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4255	The next item is the speech by Mr Rosenkranz. - I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4277	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government, in particular Federal Minister Kickl! What is it about today? What are all of us here in the high house or also the spectators in front of the television screens? – We do not see what the Austrian people would have lost in their sense of security or objective security, but we see a great bubble that our pseudo-intellectual left and their journalistic milk brothers and milk sisters have built here. Otherwise, that's nothing. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am not going to give you a lecture on questions of the division of violence, which you have not yet understood or consciously do not want to see. [[Abg. Drozda: Become objective! Mr President, there is no such thing as that.]] A small example: They ask: What documents – CDs or anything else – has the BMI seized? - Not at all. [[Abg. Arbitrators: We didn't ask that!]] Why not? – Anyone who has spoken about this topic in recent days and weeks has said one thing: There, only the prosecutors and officials of the prosecutors themselves have been seized. You even show a very special relationship with the question of the division of violence in your request. On page 3: “A central question is who was actually the triggering factor for the sudden rush of house searches.” And further down: ‘So, of course, neither the BMI nor the BMVRDJ wants to be responsible for initiating the house searches.’ One thing I know: The Ministry of the Interior is certainly not responsible for a house search. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] This only makes the prosecutor's office – as in the case in question – and the prosecutor's office, Mr Noll, has even taken an acceptable decision from the judge. Except for small exceptions, Austria is no different. We do not want to discuss abstract cases now, Mr Noll, let us remain in the specific case. Mr Schieder even believes that he would have expected answers from the Federal Chancellor. – Yes, if you want answers from the Federal Chancellor, you have to ask questions to the Federal Chancellor, but not to the Minister of the Interior. I don't think that's intellectually compatible. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: You don't understand that, do you?]] They say, under crocodile tears, that it has been possible to shake confidence this way within these first 100 days. Comrades from the SPÖ! Federal Minister Kickl has never had your confidence since the first day. [[Congratulations with Members of the List of Pilz.]] Pronounce it openly! It's about you having a minister here who's doing things that this Republic has been waiting for. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have finally said that in Austria you want reliability, cleanliness, transparency – I still add absolute rule of law – then I have to escape the fact that it is precisely this federal government. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The electorate had completely decided that you are no longer in this Federal Government. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I think the rule of law has confused you...!]] – No, you must not confuse one: This Minister of the Interior will not make any reports in advance of Löwelstraße 18 so that you can then decide what is happening here in the framework of the rule of law or not. It won't work. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] To the international reputation that you also lamented, Well, there is a mission of the ORF, because even for the question of internationality, one had to try someone who was no longer “poverty” in us – under quotation marks – because, because of the lack of Austrian Green MEPs, one even had to attract a German Green Member for it. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You're sausaged!]] It doesn't work either. If you say the BAT is paralysed: I did not know that the question of a suspension of five persons in the BAT would result in this going down the stream in some form at once. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Well, the bosses stop!]] It can't be. As regards the head: What does the Minister have for another possibility if he is held on a single act of independent justice, the prosecutor's office as an accused person? The Minister has read it to you. You said he didn't answer any questions. Where were you? You were present in space, but he read to you that he has to suspend, there is nothing else left at all. These actions have been carried out correctly. If you are also talking about this ad: What, then, does an official have to do if he is found guilty when criminal acts are brought to his attention? – He has to act immediately to approach the prosecutor’s office – and the Secretary-General has done so in the Ministry of the Interior. He has done nothing but fulfill his duty as an official without having to use a party headquarters, which you might prefer to see. The fact that you did not in itself come to a green branch in the opposition shows that the special meeting was requested by all three opposition parties, but at the end of your request, the Pilz list was then deleted; it obviously did not agree either. But what's going on here? – Question at the Federal Council, Special Meeting, Question at the National Council, National Security Council. [[Call the SPÖ:No answer!]] [[Call the SPÖ:No answer!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No answer!]] – The National Security Council? - It's only taking place. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Let's see!]] - Oh, that's it! Good, at least something! You said first: “No answer!” you know. Thank you, that's also very bright! We have a meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection tomorrow. – I can tell you what that is – I won’t drink it –: [[The speaker holds a glass of water in the height and blows in]] This is this storm in the water glass, which you have produced here; nothing else is what brings you together as an opposition politician in this Republic. That's the unfortunate thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] One thing I would like to mention: The Minister of the Interior and other persons and personalities here have meant that the Investigation Committee on the BAT would be wrong at a time. I'm saying no! I would be glad to see this committee of inquiry. [[Call the SPÖ: Please agree!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] - Well, do that! Why? – Not for taxpayers who also have to pay for this, but I would like to take advantage of every opportunity – and the better the better – that social democracy in Austria can blow up to the bones with this story, because something else does not come out of such a committee. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] One last word – and there's what's bothering you – is: There is a police unit in Vienna, the EGS, which has so far been extremely successful in the fight against crime in Vienna and Austria – whether the drug crime was et cetera: great work! – and they made this commitment. Of course, this was also completely misrepresented, but you do not even listen to what objective facts there are about it! That's where they said they're stunned with what I know which weapons et cetera. – It solves everything in nothing! You do not listen, you do not process it, and then write about the Facebook contacts of this Mr. Colonel Preiszler. They bring things from 2016, which are standing there, and then you see who has been inside this network since 2016: I've found a friend. Shouldn't be fake news, because the photo is interesting. [[The speaker keeps the expression of a Facebook posting up to date.]] The name and also the date of birth of one of his friends: This is a Mr. Franz Schnabl, born 14.12.1958, and on the photo he looks like the coming Deputy Head of State of Lower Austria. These are the friends of Colonel Wolfgang Preizezler. Look at your party, as it seems to be there!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4506	Next item is the report by Mr Matthias Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4527	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues! Dear People! In this special meeting, we are negotiating the subject of BAT, the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Combating Terrorism, and in fact it is about the security of the people in Austria, whether the Austrians can rely on the rule of law in Austria, whether they can rely on the work of the ministries, the Federal Government, whether they can rely on the work of the police bodies, and that is not a small matter in the time when we live, the volatility that is uncertain. If we cannot rely on it, then there is no longer much, which is the basis for a framework for democracy, so this issue is also so sensitive and therefore, I think, one must also look very closely at what is going on here. I think, of course, many questions have not yet been sufficiently clarified, Mr Minister, and I also think that in the case of all criticisms that we also have – like that in a committee of inquiry, witnesses who are involved in other proceedings can, of course, make a statement – a committee of inquiry is likely to come, because many questions are open. If, in social media, a vice chancellor of the Republic of Austria, Mr. Strache, here speaks of our Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Combating Terrorism as a “State in the State” if you think it is corrupt and corrupt, then that is not a small thing! I can't hear from the number two in the Federal Government such quotations and assumptions in social media and then, as a citizen, give me a smooth-floppy back and say: All right, let's continue as before! - We can't do that! Either this is a complete misappropriation of the Vice-Cancellor, or, if not, of course, we need to look more closely. Then I ask you: What is through and through corruption, what is a “state in the state”?, and then we do not have sufficient analyses and answers on the table. Similarly, the attempt at criminalisation – or the obvious procedures – of Head of this Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism, as well as the break of trust, the lack of confidence, in my opinion, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, by holding back a decree in the House of the Minister of the Interior, all these are things that hopefully are not a matter of course and which still have many questions to be clarified. At this point, however, I would like to continue with the focus on these issues. We need a wide angle to understand what is going on right now, because it is only the tip of the iceberg that we see today and here. If we go a little back to the days of May 2017, then convoluted persons have been sent to various media in different versions and to varying degrees – some 30 pages, some 40 pages, and they have also reached us as opposition forces in Parliament. [[Keeping papers in height]] These included incredible records with an incredible degree of detail, with allegations that are very far-reaching – from sexual assaults on criminal business models, extortion, suspicion to abuse of intelligence information et cetera. In those days, what we are dealing with in these weeks finds its starting point. These are exactly those days when the last government has also collapsed, and because of this, in a wide angle, it is not an affair of BAT, but an affair of BMI – the Federal Ministry of the Interior. That's how we have to see it! We have to go a long way back in history, because the BMI has been under the leadership of black interior ministers for 18 years. At the beginning, Ernst Strasser, with the combination of Gendarmerie and police, has established a very remarkable work-track record – I think that was right at the time – but in the following years, anyone who was somewhat politically interested and also engaged in the field of the ministries was able to realize with a clear eye that in the Ministry of the Interior a kind of power dynamics, a kind of authoritative understanding of power has taken over, which has caused most strange blossoms. It was done – very structured – with intelligence information, it was done – very structured – with police information shops, it was fed to journalists, it became, I claim, also blackmailed, it was, of course, also politically – namely party-political – power developed or undermined according to arbitraryity, and therefore it is a problem of the Ministry of the Interior, which we have in mind here, and that will be to investigate. This means that four phenomena overlap here in parallel. It superimposes the phenomenon of a black to blue overcolor campaign – that is phenomenon number one – with the phenomenon number two, which is a dam break that is taking place just after 18 years of authoritarian domination in the Ministry of the Interior. A phenomenon number three is something like a black brother's war also in the interior of the Ministry of the Interior. There are black networks on the go, and they have not given anything to each other; therefore long notes have been written, which are repacked in these days, and it is tried to settle bills. A phenomenon number four is a standstill agreement between red and black, which was broken because, of course, the red Chancellors and coalition governments – whether they are Gusenbauer I, Faymann I and II, whether it's Core I – have not been hidden that things are running in the Ministry of the Interior that are beyond good and evil. Only there was the informal agreement: One crow does not hack out of the other eye, because of course there are enough knittings also in the red half of the empire. [[Admissibility with NEOS and list of fungus]] That is why, Mr Kern, if you are requesting an investigation committee here – I have already offered our cooperation, but I hear signals that SPÖ wants to go through it alone; You can do this with your group strength – if you go through it alone, then this would be another indication that you naturally want to have full control of what the focus of the investigation is on, and if you do not want to march together with the other opposition parties, then, I believe, you will have a bad conscience, and we will look very closely at it. Of course, we need to bring this affair of BMI to light here, and we must, on the one hand, draw a sharp border on the subject of investigation, which must not be frowned, but we will not avoid questioning this system of power, as it has been cultivated in a serious way in the Ministry of the Interior, in the sense of the Austrian population, so that we do not continue to promote this state in the state, as I believe it to be. [[Vice Chancellor Strache: Is there him now?]] – I think there is it in the BMI and not in the BAT! I think, Mr Vice-Chancellor, there is already something like a state in the state, but not in the BVT alone. You are trying to use this affair for your party policy tactics and recoloration actions. We NEOS are the only force in this house next to the list of mushrooms, which is unladen by old loads, which does not have a foot shackle on it. [[Abg. Gudenus: What kind of force?]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Gudenus: The Oligarchen Party!]] That is why it will also be up to us to clarify these things. We'll keep the pressure up here.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4634	Next item is the report by Mr Klubobmann Peter Kolba. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4655	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectator here in the hall and especially in front of the TV screens! The invading house search in the premises of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism and also in the private homes of employees raises a number of urgent questions which have not been clarified by Minister of Justice and Minister of Justice Moser during the past week or by their Secretary-General, nor by the appearance of the Minister of the Interior here at this special meeting, but rather have been clouded. [[Abg. Rosary: Usually house searches are always announced!]] Further publications of the researching media followed Dementis and then the withdrawal of the information providers. [[Abg. Honey: for they do not know what they say.]] All in all, the public – and this can be read or considered in the media – has the impression that, first of all, in the party political interest of FPÖ, there should be a recoloration of the Austrian Constitutional Protection, that second data related to investigations against far-right circles and their links to the FPÖ could have been used and that these investigations should at least be hindered from the fact that third parties have been deliberately informed in order to negate the dimensions of the scandal, and that fourthly, constitutional protection has been ridiculed internationally shortly before the EU Presidency, and thus in its willingness to use has been threatened. Let's start from the facts that have been made known: In summer and in May 2017, an unknown insider of the BVT lets this 30, 40-page dossier on abuses in the media circulate. In many facts, the research carried out by journalists has only been able to establish that they are not sustainable. Journalists have muttered about it, but not reported it – for good reason. Apparently, the prosecutor also saw little substance in this paper. As far as we know this, two facts are being determined, namely the transfer of passports for North Korea to the South Korean intelligence service and the non-disposal of data after completion of investigations against a prominent Vienna lawyer. [[Call the FPÖ: That's nothing!]] [[Abg. Rosary: And against an EH chairman!]] Only with the appointment of Herbert Kicklzum Interior Minister and the appointment of Mag. Goldgruber to his Secretary-General at the Ministry of the Interior comes in dynamic on this matter. Goldgruber is said to have sent an ad to the prosecutor himself. Four anonymous witnesses were introduced to the public prosecutor's office, two apparently accompanied by a cabinet employee from Minister Kickl as their trustee, and the prosecutor suddenly sees danger in delay and requests for the night from 27 to 28. February at the Journal Judge orally consent to a house search without – without! – as with clamorous files in themselves, to inform the ministry or the ministerial office. [[Abg. Rosary: But the prosecutor's office already knows who the people are, or were they always anonymous?]] [[Call at the FPÖ:The Procuratorate...!]] The Secretary-General in the Ministry of the Interior offered the unity to combat street crime, whose head is FPÖ's municipal politician, and a FPÖ politician, who has a rather unexplained relationship to legal radical publications. The unit progresses, is armed, has protective vests. [[Abg. Belakovich: Did you actually...?]] What violent resistance was expected in your own house? The search - - – Don't rain up like that! [[Abg. Höbart: Did you actually listen to what the Minister of the Interior answered?]] Let me talk to you. [[Abg. Höbart: He answered that, please!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: That's just embarrassing what you're doing!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] - I brought you something. [[The speaker holds a pill box in the height and then puts it in front of him on the speaker's desk.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Fifty Valium!]] I've predicted that They'll be very excited. I offer Baldrian forte: That's helpful, so you can endure it. [[Congratulations on the list of Pilz and NEOS, as well as on the members of the SPÖ.]] The search is supposed to be accompanied by five prosecutors and external IT experts are also used. Whoever has commissioned who they are has not been clarified to this day. According to the protocols of the home search published in the media, data carriers of the Head of the Unit for Extremism, which is only conducted as a witness, were confiscated, and it was obvious from the label of the data medium that it was very clear that it was an investigational act on the right-wing radical scene. [[Abg. Rosary: And who seized it?]] To this day, no one can confirm to us that these confiscated data carriers were all actually kept in a secure area at the prosecutor's office. [[Abg. Belakovich: Where are they then? Where else are they supposed to be?]] [[Abg. Rosary takes the medicine box from the speaker's mouth.]] - Please, just take it! [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Höbart: Did you sleep in the reply of Mr. Minister?]] Minister Kickl took the events on the occasion to state publicly that the contract with the head of the - – – This is not empty, a few are still there. [[Abg. Rosary: (after looking at the contents of the medicine box, keeping a strip of it in height) Everything is empty!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Rosary: He took it all himself! They've all been pressed!]] These events - - - No, there's something inside, but you can only take one, gal? [[Abg. Rosary: That's all empty!]] [[Abg. Rosary: (keeping a strip in height) Well look here!]] But now I am saying that Minister Kickl has done serious damage in his office through this process of the Republic, the Ministry of the Interior and the Constitutional Protection, and I am therefore grateful for the following motion for a resolution. [[Call to the FPÖ: Apparently you yourself have taken too many of it, Mr President!]] [[Abg. Höbart: The Villacher Fasching is already over!]] [[Abg. Rosary: (keeping up the drug box) That's not enough for our group!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Rosary: You shouldn't take so many! That is not enough for our group.]] [[Abg. Kolba: (on the way to his seat) Take only one!]] [[14:38]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5287	Ladies and gentlemen! Deputies! The request which has just been submitted is sufficiently supported in accordance with Article 55 of the Rules of Procedure and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Dr. Johannes Jarolim. - I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5314	Mr President. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know who saw it – the rulers in front of the screens probably less –: It is noteworthy that the entire debate takes place in the absence of the EIA. She doesn't give a single speaker. And I've also been amazed - -
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5357	Please, Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5379	Yeah, that happened to me. You can calm down again. You have this little victory now. But be it. [[Abg. Rosenkranz: (in the direction of Federal Minister Fässmann) Mr. Fassmann, the difference between F and V is a certain problem!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Now Lansky called, I think!]] [[Abg. Höbart: With V like wings!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] What surprised me is that during the speech of the Minister of the Interior, there was no applause from your side. I wish for such a coalition partner. It's all right. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: But you have none!]] On the other hand, I also understand, I understand the Minister of the Interior, when he explains that he is trying to see what has actually happened in the Ministry of the Interior, which he has taken over, to see what is going on in the BAT, what is there in total. [[Abg. Haubner: This is an old speech!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: This is from the 99s year!]] What has happened to the former chief of the cabinet, Mr Kloibmüller, who has been a chief of cabinets over the years and has also been the subject of anonymous ads – yes, they are anonymous ads, but I think they are important ads in which important statements are included – in themselves? Minister of the Interior, I am here with you. Each one of you – and I think there are many in the FPÖ that have been distributed – knows these accusations. This is a dossier over 40 pages in which it says that in the Ministry of the Interior there was this unit in the unit under section head Kloibmüller and many of the friends. In this Ministry of the Interior, results that have now served the investigations have been processed. There are allegations that employees have been oppressed, there are allegations that results from investigations have been affected in such a way that the investigations have finally been completely different. This paper was also mentioned several times by your Secretary-General when he put the authorities down and pointed out it. That's what I'm looking at, I'm totally with you, but that's how you do it, that you send a troop – and whether it's just, as you yourself said, with protective vests and with Glock – from one authority to another authority? [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] The Secretary-General in the Ministry of Justice says that he would have done it a little different if he had been told before. You mustn't be surprised that one bomb explodes in the final effect if you realize that one service is trying to turn the other off, and that's it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Gudenus: That's where you speak from experience from Löwelstraße!]] You must live behind the moon if you believe that this does not lead to international uncertainty. – Ladies and gentlemen, we now have them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: Go, go, go!]] You don't need to say: Call me someone who addresses this uncertainty, because we are directly in front of the EU Presidency and the service responsible for internal security to protect constitutional institutions and foreign guests is paralysed. You're wondering why you're worried? If you ask Mrs Merkel, she will probably immediately tell you that she does not feel insecure in a country where the service, which is normally responsible, is not at ease. [[Abg. New builder: That's ridiculous!]] I would like to say one more thing because you mentioned Mr Priezler here: I don't know if you know who spirit child he is. Among other things, he licked an article from Terra – Germania, which concerns gas chamber temperatures. [[Abg. Gudenus: Liked!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: This is a free country! A free country!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Schnabl!]] [[Abg. Rosary: (keeping the expression of a Facebook posting in height)]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Lord Preiszler who led this commitment and you say he is so good. The police can't do anything for it, they can't do anything for it, they're being abused by you, by the superiors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Höbart: Grästeln!]] [[Abg. Deimek: Print only layers!]] Mr. Preizezler, who led the mission, licks articles on gas chamber temperatures, on the “war with the “everlasting enemies” – thus the Jews are called. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that such a person is still in use really only succeeds you, Minister of the Interior! I'll tell you one thing: The scandals and insanity that are on the back of the police and of the many good guys – I agree – will certainly come out, you'll still look at yourself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5649	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Michaela Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5697	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear Members of the Federal Government who are here today! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! Mr Jarolim, SPÖ Judge: My name is Michaela Steinacker, I am a member of the ÖVP and I am speaking now. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I am glad that there is the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism. I am glad because this BAT has been doing very good work for the people in Austria for many years, for which safety in our country is being done. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Still!]] I think a intelligence service works best if people don't feel its activity at all if it's not recognizable. I am also glad that an orderly rule of law system is obliged to provide for the necessary, complete information of records, allegations or ads when it comes to accusations and accusations in Austria. The investigations of the economic and corruption prosecutorship are in the initial stage. The basis of these investigations is anonymous ads at the beginning. Mr Klubobmann Strolz has waved here with this 39-page paper, I would like to say almost. I just want to say: These are documents that were not worth Austrian journalism sizes such as Grabner, Nikbakhsh or Thalhammer to write about a story that was not even worth a note in the newspapers. The proceedings at the Procuratorate of Vienna and the Procuratorate of Corruption have been brought together and are supplemented by four witnesses who have been the occasion for the ongoing house searches that are under way today. For reasons of protection, both the persons and the contents have been held anonymous for us so far. - Okay, so far, so good. The motivation behind witness statements is irrelevant to the prosecutors, as well as to the motives from which advertisements are refunded. Relevant for this – I say to all those who sit here in the House and speak on this subject and who have to do some information work in the future – is whether an advertisement offers enough evidence to initiate an investigation procedure in Austria only the content and not a motive. The Economic and Corruption Office in Austria is an authority which we all consider very valuable and which has done a great deal of educational work in recent years. She comes to the proceedings she has to deal with, and it is up to the investigating prosecutor, the investigating prosecutor, to determine which investigations he or she order. Home searches and data analyses are one of the main transactions of this prosecutor. The prosecutors know best what data are needed for the investigations and how they come to this data. The police officers, the police officers then carry out exactly what the prosecutors – and I have just talked about the quality of the prosecutors – need to do. It would certainly have been desirable if this whole procedure, as it has expired and has been discussed in recent days, would have caused less attention. Mr Klubobmann Kern, you claimed that Mr Pilnacek, the head of section, had questioned yesterday the proportionality of this measure. So I'm saying, You heard what you wanted to hear. I heard that he said with the knowledge of today he might have assessed things differently and started other measures. [[Abg. Loacker: With what knowledge?]] Mr Pilnacek, the head of section, the word – something he said yesterday – to turn around in his mouth like this! - I don't see it like that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Turn around?]] Ex post is always smarter, that is true, and the pressure to make decisions was accordingly great. [[Abg. Loacker: What facts is he wiser about?]] To say this again: Not a public prosecutor does this on his own initiative, but an independent, insidious judge of the National Criminal Court has authorized these house searches. Thank God, ladies and gentlemen, I am telling our Austrians that you will not be unsure by these discussions. Austrian courts and prosecutors work properly, lawfully, in accordance with law in well-established criminal proceedings, and only on the basis of these are actions carried out in Austria such as those we are discussing today. The Austrians appreciate this because, according to the EU's judicial barometer, 78 percent of Austrians have very good or good trust in Austrian justice, and we can also be very proud and proud of it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In a rule of law, such as Austria, there is always a legal protection, thanks to God. Whether these house searches, as they were arranged, are legal or not, this will be decided by an independent three-directional Senate at the Oberlandesgericht Wien. In my opinion, this decision is awaiting. I am proud of our justice and I would like to say that we will be able to rely on proper and complete information. Our objective must be to ensure that the authorities work together as best they can. Of course, there are precisely in these criminal process procedures - - – – Mr. Klubobmann Kern, I was just going to say something to you: [[Abg. Core rises from its seat.]] We don't play Pingpong between the ministries! [[Abg. Kern: Just look like that!]] [[Abg. Rose wreath: Goodbye!]] I believe that this matter is far too important to be said to be played between Ministries Pingpong. These processes are quite clearly arranged, within the framework of which one asks the other to take action and then go back to information. That these are, of course, duly secured by various service rights, secrecy, this is an issue that is of course a matter for these officials, judges and prosecutors. And all those who have been doing best daily work in these areas in Austria for years are most grateful at this point. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a matter of State policy responsibility, and it is about the trust of our citizens. If the opposition believes that, within the framework of its minority law, an investigation committee should be set up and that this is now the appropriate time, it will do so. Mr Klubobmann Strolz, not seats decide on a committee of inquiry, but still the votes of MEPs in Parliament. [[Abg. Arbitrators: In the best case the signature!]] That's just a small note. In principle, I consider it very harmful if an investigation committee runs parallel to investigation and court proceedings, because we already know that there are rights of censure of witnesses for political responsibility here in the house, and we also know that media coverage could influence witnesses or pass on information that accused or witnesses might not otherwise have. We need security, ladies and gentlemen. There should be no party policy on your back and on our back. In any case, the educational work must be carried out. There are also other means and possibilities. We are working here in the High House within the framework of our committee work in the Committee on the Interior, in the Justice Committee and in the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on Internal Affairs on these issues and precisely with the necessary confidentiality, whose agendas also require such delicate ones. I call on all parties involved to weigh all possibilities and to decide in the sense of the security and confidence of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5845	Mr Klubobmann Johann Gudenus is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5867	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the statements of the opposition you could almost get the impression that you are in the wrong film. [[Abg. Erasim: We believe this more often!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! This is not an agent comedy, it's not a James Bond movie, here we are dealing with the fact that an authority is acting under the rule of law, because there are just accusations and suspicions against officials who belong to it - no more and no less, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Plessl: It is being checked whether it was right!]] For twelve years I was an opposition politician at the Vienna City Hall, and I very much appreciate the right of minority or opposition to demand a special meeting, a request for distrust or a urgent request. This is very important, it should be done, and democracy is also at the point of questioning the opposition – yes. But what you are doing here today is devaluing these opposition rights. They put the whole thing in a ridiculous way, try to project here an agent comedy that is not present, and in reality you only want to distract from the errors of the last months and years of a elected Mr. Federal Chancellor's core and a non-citizen's champion who have failed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I understand a lot of viewers in front of the TV screens that have already registered via SMS. The appearances of the Lord Kern and the Lord of Arbitration were to the shame of a stranger. The bad losers go here, want to distract from their failure and don't even know the basic building blocks of state doctrine like the division of violence. Unfortunately, Mr Schieder, I did not take my coloured pencils with me to explain it to you, but the division of violence looks different at least! It can't be that the Ministry of Justice has the EGS, and it can't be that the Minister of the Interior has the public prosecutor's office. That doesn't work in Austria, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] To the accusation of Mr Kern, who says that the Cobra could have been switched on: the Cobra as the best means? You might know the cobra's t-shirt: “We make house visits.” But this is about other states. They actually arrive at 5 o'clock in the morning, and you look different – that's also good, but exactly with those who belong to it, and certainly not in such a case as here. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But street crime, that's right?]] You may not know that, but the EGS, a non-uniformized unit, is, of course, the most complex means used. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Were they with you before?]] That is simply ridiculous, ladies and gentlemen, to criticize. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Interior Minister Schieder would send the Spanish court riding school in!]] I can't defend the impression that you've probably seen too many agents, Mr. Kern – perhaps “the spy who loved me” or “the naked cannon”, all of this you have seen, but it's about something important and serious, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scherak: Then you could make a serious contribution!]] [[Abg. Plessl: Then talk seriously!]] It is about safeguarding the rule of law, it is about safeguarding the rule of law, and it is about letting authorities act unimpeded, without there being projected by an opposition that has lost elections and is in fact a bad loser, robbery comedies or robber's stories. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Duzdar.]] In the biotope of Mr. Kern – that was Mr. Silberstein, Mr. Gusenbauer, this half-world – you will probably find quite quickly many agents comedys, but welcome in reality, ladies and gentlemen! The government is moving on the ground of the rule of law, the government is creating more security, the government is providing more police – at least 4,000 more planning sites – and the government is ensuring border protection, and the government is also ensuring that the BAT is, of course, strengthened and will continue to be there for the fight against terrorism in the future, because it is also a matter of preventing terrorism. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Don't hold right now!]] – Under your Chancellorship – Mr. Kern probably went out before my speech – the boundaries were open like barn gates and in reality terror was imported. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That was really the right thing!]] That is where the BAT has to do, and there the security authorities now have to do the damage you have done, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, the motivation is also obvious. There is a new federal government with a vice chancellor strategist and an interior minister Kickl who finally look at the officials who want the officials to be upgraded and especially in the Ministry of the Interior to experience the officials of the police appreciation. [[Abg. Vogl: He has practiced in front of the mirror!]] There was no such thing as the previous governments! There was no such thing as a red Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, among the red there was no appreciation that was finally there. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] That is why the Minister of the Interior is in the focus of your policy, which is far from reality. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Who was that before? Turn around once!]] [[Abg. Knes: Look who's behind you!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Follow you!]] I'll call you: Come on. You return to the rule of law, stop your campaign against the rule of law and let the rule of law work!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6121	Mrs Stephanie Krisper is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I can give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6143	Mr President. Dear Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians, to whom I am particularly looking today, because today it is not about the usual political operation or about the day-to-day competition between opposition and government, no, that is something very special. The reason we're here today is extraordinary. Not only do I and many other people in this country worry about what is happening around this Causa, but also about dealing with it afterwards. You're wondering what's possible. From the opaque mix situation, whose reconnaissance you, Minister Kickl, and your colleague, Moser, have not facilitated, more and more cornerstones of a causa are crystallizing, which can hardly be surpassed by enormity. What are the two serious moments of suspicion that are increasingly hardening and that it is worth clarifying? First of all, there is the acquisition of power in the BAT with the bridge rod. This was necessary for the former chief Mag. Gridling to get rid of. Mr. Minister, you even proposed Mr. Gridling as BAT director on 31.1. because he is the lawyer with the greatest experience in police security. They had no choice except to Mag. Gridling's fitness would be damaged by allegations of an official offence – and that's exactly what happened. According to the house search order, he is accused of not requiring his employees to delete certain data. Would that be a case for service supervision? - Sure. Is this a reason to storm the BAT bureaus and stage a medial hunt to criminalise the BAT chief? – Certainly not, but it is an excellent opportunity to exchange the last director at the Ministry of Interior with a FPÖ confidant. These accusations against the Director come from an advertisement of the BMI Secretary General Goldgruber, your closest trustman in the BMI, Minister! On 19.2., the President of the Federal Republic of Germany signed the certificate of constituency of the Director. Now everything's going fast: Secretary General Goldgruber contacts the prosecution the following day and announces witnesses. [[Abg. Belakovich: Is this a fairy tale hour? Is that a reader's boy? Please talk!]] In the days that followed, one of your cabinet staff marches with two witnesses for consent and joins in the consultation as a trusted person. Following two other witnesses, all four want to remain anonymous. [[Abg. Rosary: But the prosecutor has already been able to do it!]] Next, your office will be filled with the art certificate signed by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. You, Minister, are holding back this document until it becomes public. Then, although the document is closed, Gridling immediately suspends – a suspension that should not have taken place, because the fact that the Director is being found out alone is not enough for that. It is about the content of the accusations, and this is the non-deletement of data that lies on the secure servers of the BAT and to which the access is logged. You have behaved illogically, even if you want to follow your legal view. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's illogical behavior?]] Why Give You do not submit the BAT document to the BAT director, as required by the law, and why don't you suspend the director on 22.2. when you heard of the accusations? The inconsistencies, however, continue beyond the strange processes surrounding the re-order of Gridling. We're coming to the house search now. Now the affair extends to the judicial department, to the prosecutor's office, which was apparently too weak to resist political influence. Why the search for the house? – It is alleged that there was a risk of remote deletion. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a danger that data would have been deleted from a distance, which would have had to be deleted anyway and whose deletion would have been logged. [[Consistency with NEOS and SPÖ as well as with the Abg. Zadić.]] Nothing but nothing warrants the search of the house. [[Abg. Rosary: NEOS is currently adopting data protection! That's incredible!]] It will only be comprehensible if it is to be used to allow it to go along with extremism data via a FPÖ control unit – a suspicion that has not yet been decommissioned. And something else is not koscher at this search: It will be approved by the journal judge at 10:30 p.m., immediately and orally on the telephone. How did the judge know about the suspicion and how much to take with the search? And why is the office of the head of the extremism department also being searched? – The statement delivered by the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs: She was a close confidant of an accused person. – The exciting question is: Why didn't this accused do a house search, not at home and not at the office? And then there is the use of the EGS, the deployment group to combat street crime, under the leadership of a FPÖ municipal council, which makes reverent, racist and evocative postings on Facebook. Interference: If the accusations to Gridling are sufficient, do not such postings justify at least legal consequences, if not suspension? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Federal Minister Kickl: Have you slept the last few hours?]] What is the brisante in the use of the EGS? – The use of the EGS was proposed to the prosecutor's office of secretary Goldgruber, and the prosecutor's office had no choice but to take it – justice cannot choose it. It's even worse: The EGS, Mr Rosenkranz, was alone in securing evidence at some time. [[Abg. Rosary: I'm just reading through your application!]] This results in my file study. In other words, the EGS under the leadership of a FPÖ Council was partly alone in ensuring evidence in the areas of the extremism department of the Austrian Constitutional Protection. [[Congratulation with NEOS and list of fungus.]] [[Abg. - Shh! - Shh! Listen!]] Much will be clear about the right path, but the political level remains unlit. This requires a U-committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6277	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Alma Zadić. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6295	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers and Seers! We have called today's special meeting because we are unsure because the Austrians are unsure because our subjective sense of security is shaken. [[Cheerfulness of Gudenus and Rosary.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Ours too!]] This government has raised a central issue on the flags, and that is the issue of security. The word "security" appears 170 times in the government programme. [[Abg. Rosary: Bravo!]] You want to make Austria safer and raise our subjective sense of security again – then please do so! But the actions of the last week only succeed in the opposite. Within a few weeks, you have managed to shake our trust in one of the country's most important security authorities in such a way that we ask ourselves whether the issue of security is really so important to you. [[Abg. Rosary: The colleague Pilz never left a good hair on BVT!]] The Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism is the central security authority of the country, Mr Rosenkranz. Among the core competences of this authority is the fight against terrorist and extremist networks and the fight against organised crime. This intelligence service is of utmost importance for the security and reputation of Austria. [[Abg. Rosary: But you must tell Mr Pilz!]] The operations that were at their preliminary height in the controversial house search have already led to concerns across Europe. Europe-wide, there is concern among the secret services whether Austria is in a position to ensure the full protection of EU Heads of State or Government during the EU Presidency. [[Federal Minister Kickl: Did they tell you that?]] All this has led to a chaotic and well-exposed house search; I would like to explain the criticisms in the spotlight here again. First: The search for the house is carried out by the road crime deployment group. This is led by a FPÖ municipality, Mr. Preizezler, who, as was reported in the media yesterday, is suspected of spreading repulsive, racist and xenophobic postings in social media. [[Abg. Gudenus: Ah, is that the news of today's session? Oh, my God!]] Secondly, In the search of the house, numerous records are taken. And the most brilliant detail on the edge: 32 gigabytes are taken away by the head of the office of the office of right-wing extremism. If you convert the text written on pure, the 1 million DIN A4 pages are. – By the way, she was not accused, but only witness in this trial. Thirdly, According to the Home Search Information, media reports are held by a prosecutor that the situation on the ground is rather chaotic. This is alarming, especially as it is about a highly sensitive house search. [[Abg. Gudenus: When is a house search not chaotic?]] The legal department of the BAT also requests a seal of highly sensitive and classified data. A seal shall be rejected. These conditions, ladies and gentlemen, are worrying. There are a number of questions which, in my opinion, are still unanswered: What investigation files, in particular on the current cases of the Office of the Extremism, have been ensured? In what context are these extreme rights data related to the house search warrant? Where are these data now, who has access to these data and how are these accesses logged? [[Abg. Rosary: We must ask the Minister of Justice tomorrow!]] There are copies of this data, and how many copies are there? And for me actually the most important and crucial question: Are the informants in danger of far-right revenge and did they understand anyone about this danger? [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Gudenus: There is a bloodache in Bosnia, not with us!]] In order to understand this madness, however, it is not enough to light up the chaotic house search, in which current investigations from the right-wing extremism offices were taken away by chance. We need to look much further in order to note all the damage we have suffered in Austria due to party political interests both to the ÖVP and to the FPÖ. [[Abg. Rosary: It's always good!]] We have to ask ourselves whether party political interests, which are deep in the FPÖ, have not harmed our central security authority for much longer. The prosecutor's office has long been finding out in the BAT's black network – this could also be criminally relevant. According to media surveys, the years 2015 and 2017, but the entire BAT affair won only when, after new elections, an interior minister interfered in the investigations and brought witnesses. [[Abg. Gudenus: Is that forbidden? He has to!]] The central questions that need to be addressed in this whole affair: Why, then, have the investigations begun right now, and why have they just won a ride? Because only by answering these questions can the entire extent of this affair be recorded. And there are two options for the option: Either in the BAT everything was fine, and the Minister of the Interior has tried to get him out of the way politically unloving people, or in the BAT there was nothing in order and the way the Minister of the Interior was trying to clean up there was grossly inappropriate or perhaps even unlawful. [[Abg. Gudenus: You have to ask the Minister of the Interior!]] We want to know from the Pilz list now, we want to clarify exactly these details in an investigation committee. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Minister of the Interior, you are responsible for our security. [[Abg. Gudenus: Incorrect address!]] In the last committee, you said on the controversial monitoring package that these monitoring measures are necessary to ensure our safety, because you could no longer sleep quietly. Yes, Minister of the Interior, can you sleep quietly after your public disassembly of the central security authority? – We Austrians cannot. [[Abg. Gudenus: Do you even know the rule of law?]] You have managed to discredit your most important security authority in such a way that it no longer enjoys credibility either nationally or internationally. [[Abg. Gudenus: The Black Block in Parliament! Have fun!]] Lack of credibility means a secret service. He depends on secret information, and if he does not receive it, he is at the end – the end of an authority responsible for combating terrorist and extremist threats. That is why, Minister of the Interior, you can certainly understand why we can no longer sleep quietly. You will also understand why we need to express our distrust from the Pilz list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6538	The Federal Minister for the Interior has been reported to speak. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6559	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I won't need these 10 minutes! I would just like to point out that sometimes it can be quite a disadvantage if one does not adapt his speech after answering certain questions, but continues to stick to what one has done sometime during the morning. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] You know, Mrs Zadić, this is already a matter of security and trust in the services. And you should consider – I mentioned it anyway, but you probably did not listen – very, very carefully whether it is in the interest of certain services if You or a Mr. Peter Pilz may be organizing secret files with regard to other countries under the pretext of seeking to advance an investigation committee to clarify a matter which is now the case with the judiciary. I don't have a very good feeling if these files are balling around at Peter Pilz and Co., I'm telling you quite honestly. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the comments made by Mr Klubobmann Strolz, since he – at least I had the feeling – has tried to make a certain differentiated presentation. But I can't leave two things: One is that he said that a head of an authority would be criminalised. This can only be formulated on condition that the activities are reinterpreted in the investigation procedure of a public prosecutor who leads to someone being led as an accused person as an act of criminalisation. I do not think that Mr Strolz should go in this direction, because that would be a smooth vote of distrust against an essential institution of our rule of law. And then there's a second thing: He said that I had lost the President of the Federal Republic – not a small accusation. Just, you need to know one thing: I have tabled this request for the re-appointment of Mr Gridling, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has confirmed him, with effect from 21 December. March. Today the 19th is, so I even have a day left to hand over Mr. Gridling the corresponding decree, but I have done it before. [[Abg. Kolba: What for?- Oh, my God!]] Whoever here is supposed to have lost knowledge of who? [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Something else is important: Here a robber's story is told that there are some data about five corners and I don't know how many stakeholders have organized that one would have organized a security of data that would not be available to me. I would simply and decisively encourage you, in the sense of your responsibility, not to override the laws of logic. ==References== December of last year I am the Federal Minister for the Interior. The BAT belongs in my field of activity, and as the Federal Minister for the Interior, I have, of course, had any access to this data material since this 18.12. Why I should organize something over ten corners, where I only have to go into this BAT to look into what you think it is so secret, you have to explain to anyone! That's part of a legend that's irresponsible. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To Mr Kolba: I appreciate the search by journalists in this country as you do, but I hope we can understand: The investigation authorities based on our constitution are still the prosecutor's office, the criminal police and, if necessary, the courts, but certainly not the self-proclaimed investigative journalists' collectives. If you understand this differently, then with the Constitution you stand on the foot of war, not I, Mr Klubobmann Kolba! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And to Mr. Jarolim, who is concerned about the mental condition of police officers who see another policeman with a Glock 17: The Glock 17, Mr. Jarolim, is the standard equipment of every policeman. When you go in front of the house, you see that every strip police officer has such a Glock 17 as it has been used in the case mentioned. I hope it's today. You don't care about this bad impression if you have to see one of those heavy-armed people from your point of view. – That’s ridiculous, Mr Jarolim, that’s ridiculous – you know that – since every traffic politician who regulates a traffic light is so equipped! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] And something else: If you criticise the adjustment of the EGS: This is the normal service clothing of the EGS. That is why these vests have also existed, as they are the normal service clothing of the EGS. And it becomes very funny when you criticize this and at the same time demand the use of the Cobra, which actually goes to work with quite different methods. That is why, because it was not necessary to act so rabitely, the Cobra did not come into use. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] And something else, because Chancellor Merkel was quoted, who should have been worried about it – I say: 'cause that's again some media reports that she never confirmed: So what did I do? – I asked the competent German Minister of the Interior whether that was actually true – I think you did not, but I did – and the information was that these claims are not the minimum. They must then take note of things as they actually did. The last thing I can do is make a correction, because I have accidentally stated a wrong date on Question 35; the correct date must be: 14.3.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6647	Next, Mrs Angela Luegerzu has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6678	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The dominant theme of the last few days is the affair around the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Combating Terrorism, in short BAT. We know that it was created in 2002 by Minister of Interior Strasser from the State Police and the intervention group to combat terrorism with about 300 officials. The BAT shall be audited by the Committee on Internal Affairs and its Subcommittee. It is responsible for countering terrorism and extremism, but also for protecting people. Personal protection will be very exciting and of interest to people in the autumn of this year, when the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union takes place. The BAT is a secret service that is not really one, because the BAT is an authority and not a classical intelligence service. The tension in this affair is that, since the emergence of these discords, all the statements that should actually bring clarifications have added to the confusion, regardless of whether the urgent request in the Chamber of State, in the Federal Council, or the different statements made by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, through which the contradictions have increased. In short: There was no investigation. It is like a carpentry hunt, in which a new mystery can be solved over and over again, because every day something else appears. Unfortunately, there is a little chaos and ambiguity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] As regards the statement: maximum attention to the search by the BAT and individual colleagues from the BAT, you, Federal Minister Kickl, said that it was a proper procedure for the rule of law. However, a BMI official, who is also affected, has made the statement that the FPÖ is carrying out “brainful and brutal violence as in the domestic struggle in Baghdad”. Minister Kickl, is that the rule of law? - That's what an official said. [[Abg. Herbert: No official said that, that's what a journalist said!]] [[No call at the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Kickl.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: This is stupid!]] Mr Amon, if you think that Mr. Dr. Lansky is a so-called honeypot, a so-called target person: The procedure for espionage, which you threatened or cut, has been discontinued. [[Call ÖVP and FPÖ: He said yes!]] The files have not been deleted, but also the ÖVP has a hard drive of these files. [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: James Bond always did!]] Mr Minister, this not only concerns us here, but also the population. 58 percent of the respondents say they are worried. They are concerned about the approach taken by the Raccia in the BAT. The employees of this office are also concerned, on the one hand, with the sensitive data and the question of whether these can come into unauthorized hands, and on the other hand whether Austria is sufficiently protected. And if the Deputy Chancellor – it has already been mentioned – writes on Facebook by the “State in the State” and speaks of a corrupt structure, I think that those officials who have provided a regular service day after day simply did not deserve it. Mr Minister, there's a question of education. It is about the security of the state, it is about its citizens. It is about the future of an authority to protect the Austrian state. It is about the expert pool, which specializes in the defense of extremism, terrorism and espionage. If you say you had contact with the messages: I hope Hungary was there, and I hope Russia was there. The former BAT director Polli – who should not be completely unknown to you – also likes to meet with Mr. Strache, the Vice-Cancellor – said on 9.3. in the "ZIB 24": “Where we have to do it here is the provisional highlight of a crisis of confidence between European intelligence services and local authorities.” – This confidence in foreign intelligence services, Minister, needs to be restored. Once again very briefly to the head of the house searches: Today, you can track – also in ORF online – that there is a service review against him by the Vienna police. This has such an extent that it is necessary to restore confidence. This confidence, Minister Kickl, has now broken you. It is up to you – it is your responsibility – to restore this confidence for the people and for us here.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6784	The next item is Mr Karl Nehammer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6805	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government, in particular Mr. Federal Minister for the Interior and Mrs. State Secretary! Appreciate High House! Ladies and gentlemen! It is important, I think, to stress once again from this point of view: In the past – Werner Amon has already pointed out – the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism has acquired great merits, on the one hand in the Enlightenment and Terrorism, on the other, in the fight against the national objectors and in the fight against threats of left-wing or right-wing violence, as well as of fanatical-religious groups. Therefore, from this point of view, a warm thanks should also go to the officials of the BAT for their daily great commitment to our safety! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] It's true that allegations are in the room. There is a rule of law. There is a report from the Ministry of Justice, in which it is very detailed – that surprises me – and is addressed in advance to many questions of the opposition, namely that this procedure has been carried out by the rule of law, that the prosecutor was the master of the procedure, and that the officials employed of the EGS have merely accompanied the measure and all seizures have been carried out by the public prosecutor or by experts appointed by it. I think it must be stressed that there is a rule of law in our country, in our Republic and in this government. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The questions you, Mr Klubobmann Kern, have raised and are also partly legal in nature will be answered and clarified in this procedure – we have so much confidence in independent justice and the rule of law from our side. The political questions – you have also raised political issues – are indeed to be looked closer. The name Dr. Lansky appears again and again in this causa. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Looking at Dr. Lansky in his relationship with SPÖ is always exciting. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] In 2006 he was the donor of Alfred Gusenbauer, a very successful donor. If you remember 2006 – at least at the time National Council elections took place, I remember, I already distributed flyers for the People's Party – there were very much posters and advertisements from SPÖ. The tension, however, is that the SPÖ was debt-free after the fundraising of Dr. Lansky. And that was – forgive me for saying that, as a Secretary-General, I actually agree – an extraordinary achievement. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Even more exciting is the fact that after 2006, the law firm of Dr. Lansky received its framework contract with the ÖBB worth EUR 4.5 million, which has also been confirmed. [[Abg. Core: But, Mr. Secretary-General, that was under the black and blue government! They were your black and blue friends!]] That has also been confirmed. I am particularly pleased that Mr Klubobmann Kern is so committed to speaking, because he was also an ÖBB manager who has confirmed this contract. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Variety: False!]] So you see, there are very interesting connections. And what really - - – the listeners could not hear this: [[Abg. Core: These are your personal fantasies!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Unlike what...!]] Mr Klubobmann Kern has just made a comment on my fantasy world. I can only say, Mr Klubobmann, that this is really exciting, if Dr. Lansky has actually been identified against him because of the idea of a spies – also because of his mandate with Kazakhstan et cetera – it serves, as you are right, some fantasies and also leaves some questions that I consider to be quite clear. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There is also an interesting aspect to be questioned in the list of mushrooms. [[Abg. Core: The word rule of law should no longer be taken into your mouth!]] Your party founder has at the moment still some issues concerning the accusations of sexual harassment that are directed against him and which are not irrelevant. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, I have always experienced you as a committed fighter for women's rights, and you have just admitted that you have said that all women affected by it get your support. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] I don't know how you feel about Dr. Pilz now acting as an advisor to the SPÖ club in this Causa. That's, I think, also a question you have to ask. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and list fungus.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are political questions that we have now resolved. I am still looking for you to send a common signal to this House that we are behind the officials of the BAT, that the head of the Section of the Ministry of Interior, the Director-General for Public Security, the Minister and the Secretary of State are doing much, yes, everything to ensure security in our Republic, so that we send out from this House a signal of gratitude for their commitment to our country to officials who take care of our security every day. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6978	Mr Klubobmann Mag has to make an actual correction. Andreas Schiederzu word reported. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7012	I would like to correct two points. The MP and ÖVP Secretary General Nehammer here claimed that the lawyer Lansky had received the ÖBB contract after a alleged party reorganisation. First, the SPÖ is still not debt-free, and second, he has his contract - - – listen to it! – Just listen! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[New calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Secondly, he has his contract from the times of Black and Blue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] That was when you first destroyed the Republic. [[Ah-Rufe and other calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Secondly, I should like to correct the claim made by Mr Nehammer that the former Member of the Pilz advises the SPÖ club. Of course he doesn't. We can very well abstain from Mr Pilz's advice and will not take it as a consultant either. I assume that he continues to keep his list, which he gave his name, – at least not us. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Save yourself these intrusions!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7090	Mrs Marlene Svazek is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7111	Madam President. Dear Minister of the Interior! Dear Federal Government! High house! [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs.]] If one follows this debate, it is almost impossible to believe that the SPÖ – even if Mr Jarolim would like to go back – was at some point a Chancellor's party, because what you are doing here is almost a bit embarrassing. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Tell us something about the Rebhandl! What about the vine?! ...!]] I am also sorry that NEOS, who were involved in this special meeting, are not even fully present. Mr Schellhorn from Salzburg, who is over-dimensionally large against corruption and transparency in Salzburg, is missing today. I assume that he is in Salzburg and therefore does not fulfil his obligations in this House, which he is actually paid for. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Loacker: This is an underlay, tear yourself on the belt!]] – Mr. colleague, this is not an injunction because Sepp Schellhorn also posted a video on Facebook this morning, about what he is doing today, and that he is in the evening at the "SN" discussion of the top candidates. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Cheerfulness and applause at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] If you listen to the list of mushrooms like this, you might almost believe that the tablets you have offered us before, in any way forbid you to listen meaningfully, because what you give of yourself has already been clarified and answered by the Minister of the Interior. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, they still don't understand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kolba.]] They throw false claims around them, which have already been rejected for decades, for example, that storm hoods and long-range weapons have been stormed. Mr. Schieder, you were excited that the group had weapons with it at all. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You didn't even listen meaningfully! ...!]] I'm sorry, are they supposed to march in there with scented candles or incense sticks? What would you prefer? [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Calls and counter-calls between MEPs Schieder and Zanger.]] I've already told Klubobmann Kern that when he looks into his tablet, he's hopefully Googleing: How do I do opposition? – If you were a real opposition, you would also assume your responsibility and know that the use of instruments such as a committee of inquiry and a request for distrust also means a certain degree of responsibility. What you do is to give up these valuable, powerful instruments of ridiculousness – and to do the same with them. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: Thank you! Thank you.]] And I can give up on your interlocutory calls, Mr Schieder, as regards the Salzburg election campaign. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We already know the Trio Infernal Core, Arbitrator and Lercher on APA-OTS. But more than a fight to lead on APA-OTS, you obviously cannot. [[Abg. Arbitrator: What about the Rebhandl?! Open it up!]] - Yeah, just no stress, it's all coming. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Is it still coming?]] The fabric you present to us here is sufficient mainly for a medium class “tatort. ” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] As we know the ORF, he will probably even record this lubrication comedy and bring it as a “tatort. ” The substance, however, is not sufficient for a committee of inquiry, and it is essential for this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7292	Next, Mrs Irmgard Griss is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7324	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! ‘Not only must justice be done; it must therefore be seen to be done.’ So it is not enough for it to be fair, but it must also be seen that it is fair. This is said by the European Court of Human Rights, the EGMR, in constant case law. Why does he say that? Why does he say that it is important whether there seems to be fairness in a state, in the justice of a state, in a rule of law? – Because this is the basis of trust in the state, in the rule of law. Trust has already been mentioned repeatedly today. Indeed, trust is the basis of our peaceful living together. If there were no such confidence in the state institutions, what would be the result? – The consequence would be that everyone should take his right into their own hands. Therefore, there is no peaceful living together without trust in the rule of law. And trust in the rule of law has been fundamentally shaken by this BAT affair. [[Call at the FPÖ:But that's what you're doing!]] A friend of mine – she is a foreigner, originally from Asia and has been teaching at an Austrian university for more than ten years – has been called a few days ago by a German colleague who said to her: Tell me, are you still feeling safe in Austria? What's going on here? You're a foreigner. [[A major contradiction with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Don’t read so much “South German newspaper! ”]] Don't you want to think about whether you're coming back to Germany? – She previously taught at a German university. It is a fact that people who get from abroad a certain picture of the events with us feel that they can no longer trust the rule of law in Austria. This situation has been brought about by something that can be called the arrogance of power, namely, by an action which is clearly overly overlaid – at least it has clearly appeared that this was an overshadowed action. One could also say that perhaps it is the power of stupidity because one has not taken into account what consequences such a course can have. What hurts me especially as a former judge is that the Minister of Justice then goes out to defend the public prosecutor's office because in Austria we still have the lead of the prosecutor's office with a member of the government. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] A member of the government must thus cover another member of the government or jump into that Bredouille. Only when Austria also has an independent Advocate General, the division of powers is actually implemented in this area, will confidence in justice again be justified according to the outward appearance. That is why this is a case that confirms that we need a great deal of follow-up. I would like to conclude with the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Jarolim.]] [[15:43]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7459	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Alfred Noll spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7484	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Although I have prepared myself very well, it is now possible to leave almost everything aside, because what we have received from our Minister of the Interior in hot air and in rhetorical foam rolls, it is quite justified to get up to this level. [[Abg. Martin Graf: But you don't have any shackles!]] Our Minister of the Interior is said to be a certain enthusiasm for Marxist dialectics. [[Interference of Federal Minister Kickl.]] There's a beautiful word from Lenin just before the October Revolution: “We know that not every daily wager, every cook can rule the state from today to tomorrow.” If I look at what the Minister of the Interior has done for the last 100 days, we now also know that not every confounded student of philosophy can lead our Republic as Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Haider: Naughty! Have a good time!]] [[Abg. Riddler: Naughtiness!]] I mean, as a coalition with the novel to the UG, you have prevented such students from continuing, you will have had your reasons for that. Obviously try You come here with huge steps into the Guinness book of records. Nationally, internationally and historically, a minister of the Interior has never succeeded in disposing of one's own authority in such huge steps nationally and internationally. That's really unique. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Is there a rule of law or is there no rule of law?]] Now, before I tell you two more things that justify our request for distrust, I have to say: [[Call the ÖVP:... Sexists!]] I'm not a friend of Mr. Peter Gridling, I've been doing things with him in public often enough. Nor am I concerned that we have a minister who, in obvious affinity, makes his policy to the far right, because he is entitled to do so, and he is also elected to it. I have a very different problem. My problem is that he doesn't control what he took over as an office. I believe that the self-esteem of the Minister of the Interior, whom he gave to the press in 2009, is much more meaningful than all that he has served in Rabulistics today. The “press ” he said at that time, that he himself would not want to be at the very top, for that there are more talented ones. – This self-esteem is entitled – to this day. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] In my view, those who answer questions to Parliament in this way have every reason to generate themselves. They are not intended to condemn Parliament here, but they are paid for it and are intended to give answers to questions here, and you have remained guilty of them today. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] However, two things play a role in this whole thing – and I don't repeat what we've gotten all day long on facts –: The Minister of the Interior took place on 18 November. December 2017 Mr. Mag. Peter Goldgruber was appointed Secretary General; he was allowed to do so, not to be suspended. The position of the Secretary-General, as it did until the 28th century. December last year was cabinet refinery, whose occupation was allowed to take place even without an invitation to tender under § 2 of the Procurement Act. However, the coalition has with 28. On December 7, 2017, something was done that completely alters the situation: In accordance with § 7 of the Federal Ministry Act, we now have a Secretary General, who has become the central institution of every Federal Ministry. Now we can begin to take the § 4a of the Procurement Act, which the Minister of the Interior obviously did not want to read. What does § 4a of the Procurement Act say? – There it says: If the department of an official changes by more than half, this position must be registered. Your patron in this office wasn't worth the tender. That is why we made a statement to the public prosecutor's office in Vienna in the morning because of the suspicion of abuse of office against you. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] The Minister is now being led at least as a suspect at the public prosecutor's office in Vienna. There is, however, another reason for this presentation to the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Abg. Rosary: Do you also stick behind the anonymous ads in Lower Austria?]] - Yes! Sure! If that's what you're asking: Yes, Mr. Rosenkranz! [[Abg. Rosary: I just wanted to know!]] [[Abg. Gudenus: You're deep inside everywhere!]] The second reason why we have made this statement has to do with the suspension of Peter Gridling. Mr. Minister, I would strongly advise you, even if you could. phil. are to look into the law, please. You have today possessed the insolence of Parliament to quote § 112 BDG completely incompletely and in obviously manipulative intention. § 112 para. 1 Civil Service Law contains very precise conditions for suspension. I am saying this because I represented the ex-chef of the BKA Haidinger last year and day, who was then suspended by Fekter, where the reasons for his suspension were similar to those for which Kickl is now suspending Gridling; it was only political reasons. I represented Haidinger back then, and that was successful. I know a little bit more about the suspension, anyway, than you think. [[Abg. Martin Graf: I think you know each other everywhere!]] The condition for the suspension is precisely defined in the three paragraphs of § 112. Either there is an U-port – is not present – or there is a legal charge – is not present – or the leaving of the official concerned reduces the standing of the office or the interests of the service. All that is currently damaged by the reputation of the Office was set in motion by you and your Secretary General and not by Peter Gridling. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] That is why I believe that this suspension procedure will end just as much as Mr Haidinger did. One sees that unloving people are removed from the workplace, with a reduction in their numbers, in order to get rid of them very quickly and to regulate things differently in their absence. [[Abg. Gudenus: When do you make room for Mr. Pilz?]] I say this as someone who is not a personal representative of Peter Gridling. [[Abg. Gudenus: When do you make room for Mr. Pilz?]] – Mr Gudenus, not only do you have no idea, but almost anything else, so please be quiet! [[Congratulations and calls for approval of the Pilz and SPÖ list.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Are you the placeholder for Mr. Pilz?]] I don't think this is a coup, it's not even a coup. It is the very legitimate intention and the very legitimate project of the coalition, and thus also of the Minister of the Interior, to adjust and re-occupy leadership positions in the various offices in such a way as it corresponds to one's own attitude. I don't have a problem with that. Unharmed However, you are not the real problem by pretending that we were only concerned about the policy behind it in the fight against law. My problem is that there is a man sitting on the government bank who simply cannot say what he has promised the Republic, in his own words. – Find a better one!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7725	Next, Mr Jan Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7747	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of the Interior, you are always calling yourself Minister of Security, but I tell you that in the last three weeks I have actually only seen you as Minister of Insurance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When I look at what different variants I have heard, as regards the head or the suspended head of the BAT, Mr. Gridling: It's called immediately after the incident, it's on vacation and it's coming back. A few days later, it was said, he's on vacation and he won't come back because his contract is no longer being extended. Then suddenly it was said that his contract had already been extended, the Federal President has already signed. Then it was said that it was only not handed over because one has to prepare a small state act, but the sect is not yet cooled and the broths are not yet lubricationd. Then there was something very interesting: In the Ö1 “Morgenjournal”, Professor Funk has informed you and all of us that your actions are not lawful, but that you must submit the decree and then be able to suspend it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] By the way, one more thing is to say that the ORF does not comply with its educational assignment, for, see, a few hours later have [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] They followed this instructions, handed over the decree to him, and then suspended him. Today you explain to us great: It's pretty clear that I have to suspend him; I have to suspend him! – It only raises the question: Why Not Not at the latest on 28 March. February? You said you didn't want to suspend him on the 27th, because there'd be some sort of house search, but why did you get him on 28th? Not suspended on February? Why? March? As Mr Krisper has already said, you have remained guilty of any answer. Because you've had to check that out for 14 days? – But it’s so sunny, explain to the house today! No, I think there are other things behind it, and I'm telling you: I don't feel any more secure when I think that you're a security minister; this blow is more uncertain. Even more meticulous is the question of the political commissioner whom you have ordered – you call him Secretary-General, but from his function he is a political commissioner – at Mr Goldgruber. It has been declared: The Ministry of the Interior has nothing to do with the whole thing, it has been brought in an advertisement to the prosecutor's office. Then it turned out: He brought in the ad. Then it was said, the ad, that was already known, it wasn't about the ad at all, but it was about witnesses, they reported themselves witnesses. Then it turned out: The witnesses were almost taken to the prosecutor's office by Mr. Goldgruber. [[Abg. Belakovich: Where did this turn out?]] It says he has nothing to do with it. Then it turned out that in the case of two of these witnesses, a cabinet staff member of you as a trusted person, as a caretaker, whatever you want to call it, was sitting next to it. So, the first story: We have nothing to do with it. In the end, however, you will notice: That's where someone conducts the whole thing. Then comes the question: Who conducts the house search? – There is a federal anti-corruption office on and on its own. That's what the Ministry of the Interior says: it's not trustworthy. The BVT is corrupt, at least part of it is corrupt, or there is a suspicion that they are corrupt. Now you have to imagine: The Federal Office for the Control of Corruption seems to be under one cover and is also corrupt – says the BMI – so we cannot trust them, so they cannot carry out the house search. Then comes the question of whether the Cobra makes the house search. No, they can't, because they're de facto corrupt, because they could tell anyone what corruption would be. What's going on instead? – Then your commissioner, Goldgruber, suggests: I'd have one, he's totally reliable. While he repeatedly posts racist, anti-Semitic things and licks hetceric postings on Facebook, he is one of us, that is, totally trustworthy – and he is supposed to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Does that make me sure? – No, I just feel unsure about such processes and the things I hear here. In the end, the question becomes even more acute: What about the right-wing extremism file and those documents that are supposed to have nothing to do with it? [[Abg. Neubauer:... answered three times!]] The first answer is: Nothing was taken. [[Abg. Rosary: From BMI, right!]] Then you come up with it: It's been taken a little bit, but that wasn't our goal, not our intention, that's what happened to us! [[Abg. Rosary: Who is “our”?]] When you read the minutes carefully, at the end of the day, you will notice that everything was taken away, that everything was copied and that the competent prosecutor, while that happened, was not even in the house. [[Abg. Rosary: You know everything anyway!]] Tell me who copied it, if not the trusted ladies and gentlemen of your party! You can clarify that. Does that make me sure? - No, I'm very unsure. I tell you one thing, Minister: There are only two variants. Either you are right and the BVT is corrupt – or parts of it – a part of the Federal Office for Corruption is corrupt, which are corrupt at the Cobra and at the BMI is a state in the state – but that must be explained by the Lord who has just left the room – or you really only use it to paint a bit Party-political here and exert pressure on an authority. [[Abg. Rosary: But this will ultimately be decided by the court!]] [[towards FPÖ]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] If you say that you are worried about the fact that Members in this House are getting documents - which are very difficult, not a question - within the framework of an investigation committee, I will tell you one thing: This is a hundred times better for me than if you and yours have access to the authority to take action against right-wing extremism in that country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7914	Mr Hans-Jörg Jenewein is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7935	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Given the topic that has dominated media coverage in the past few weeks – weeks – one can say – one has actually been able to focus on something before the beginning of the session. I thought that there were fire speeches being held out of the opposition today – and everything that was left was an attempt to rethink. We have heard it again to the last speaker, Mr Krainer: It was a reconnaissance. You tried to find the red thread somehow. It has not been found, and it is actually embarrassing that on this important subject of state security – which has already been said several times today – one really dots and does it in some way during a special session. [[Call the SPÖ:Hello, hello!]] There are some things going to be constructed, and I'm already wondering what's going on. She actually moves to act as Lakai and bandits of the published opinion. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, all that you have said today was, in principle, a summary of what we have been able to read over the last few days and weeks in the various daily newspapers and weekly newspapers – some of which have long been rejected; nevertheless, it has been taken into account in the explanatory statement of the question, but today, for example, Mr Kolba has spoken in his speech and in his request that the hordes have been marched in with firearms. So if you're really scared of civilian cops equipped with a service gun, then I have to tell you honestly, you're really wrong wrapped. This is anything but something you should be afraid of. This fairy tale hour is then partially reheated by the colleagues of the writing technique every day, mainly in the “Falter” or in the salmon-colored leaf “The Standard”. – Yes, yes, thank you, my colleague. [[Abg. Drozda: You are a good media speaker!]] I would like to give you the same compliment, but unfortunately you have not spoken today. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] I am deliberately saying fairy tale hours, Mr Drozda, because if you write some reports on the one hand, which will then be conducted ad absurdly the next day, you must of course already have the question of whether this is related to seriousness in any form or whether you do not want to make a little scandalal journalistism live up there. We experience it again at the hour – many of you will probably already have read it – when you look, for example, at what is now “The Standard” for brand new revelations about how this house search should have happened. You know, the Minister of the Interior and my colleague, Marlene Svazek, have said in her speeches that Parliamentary instruments must be handled carefully. You have announced that you would like to carry out a parliamentary investigation committee. There is also a special representative of the writing principle: For example, Mr Klenk wrote on 9.3. on this subject: “My informant says: "The Federal Office for Constitutional Protection is dead. [...]’ SPÖ & Neos should set up a U-committee and clarify how this could happen.” [[Call:His informant]] That's where I ask myself the question: If Mr Klenk really has an informant in the BAT, it would be quite interesting to know what this is for an informant and what information he is going to pass on. [[Ongoing calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Much will be done if it really comes to such an investigation committee, but I do not really want to do so in the light of such a sensitive question. It is a bit absurd, for example, that for many, many years here in the National Council, Mr. Peter Pilz has been the BAT, including all those acting, on the spot and incitement as criminals, but today the members of the Pilz list are producing themselves here and suddenly proclaiming the state crisis. You have to ask yourself the question of what happened. Has there been a migration of souls? Is there a spiritual Buran with you? - I don't know, but it's all funny. If it really comes to an investigation committee, then I would be very happy if perhaps even that which has been going on in this country in recent years and decades: Documents from the police and from the judiciary are regularly passed on to the newspapers, where secret files can then be found in facsimile. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These are things that really belong to research, that really belongs to something done. There I am even with you when you say: Let's examine that! – That’s how it can’t go on!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e8017	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote. First of all, on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kolba, ladies and gentlemen, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior, Herbert Kickl, in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. As the presence of half of the Members is required for such a decision by the National Council pursuant to paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, I expressly note it. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr.in Krisper, colleagues on'standardised and regular control of the premises of constitutional institutions for hearing security'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00013_d7e8071	The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 16.06 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
