ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e5573	Ladies and gentlemen, I can open the meeting. I would like to welcome you all: ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and at home in front of the televisions! ==References====External links== Meeting of 17 to 19. ==References====External links== Meeting of 19. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== April 2018 are present in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. Members Petra Stegerund Josef Schellhorn are not allowed to attend today's meeting. [[Abg. Scherak: Mr President! I have already referred to the Rules of Procedure. After you!]] [[09:07:40]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e5615	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: The Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz will be Mag by the Federal Minister for EU, Art, Culture and the Media until 3 p.m. Gernot Blümel, MBAund will be represented by the Federal Minister for Digitalization and Business Location Dr. Margarete Schramböck from 3 p.m. on. I can announce that the ORF is transferring this meeting live on ORF 2 to 1 p.m. ORF III will be transferred to this meeting in full duration, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.40 p.m., will be sent in time. [[09:08:01]] Before we start the current hour, there is a word for business treatment. Please, Mr Scherak.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e5674	Thank you, Mr President. It is an exceptional situation today when a current hour and an up-to-date European hour are to be provided to the Federal Chancellor and, in such current hours following the Rules of Procedure, the competent member of the government to which the present hour is addressed is to be present and is also obliged to give an opinion; this is explicitly stated in the Rules of Procedure. Of course, we also know the rules under the federal constitution that government members can be represented. But I believe that a fundamental question that we must ask ourselves is what is the exception in the future and what the rule should be. When we look at the Federal Chancellor's representations, we see that the whole statement of government began when we could only start with the plenary session here at 1 p.m. due to an appointment of the Federal Chancellor in Brussels. There was an apologies from the Federal Chancellor on 28 October. February. ==References== He was present at the time of Question Time addressed to him in March. However, there was an apologies from the Federal Chancellor on 21 and 22 February. On March 16, there is now an excuse from the Federal Chancellor for the 16th and 17th centuries. ==References====External links== It is true that I believe, in principle, that the regulation, which can be represented, is comprehensible, but, as has been said, the big question is what the exception and what the rule is in the future. If you look at other heads of state, such as Chancellor Merkel, who is today engaged in a debate in the Bundestag and travels to Sofia only after that, I must say that I feel the course of our Federal Chancellor is somewhat problematic. The big question is how we should keep up the current hours in the future if the Federal Chancellor is not willing to speak and answer here in the run-up to the Austrian Presidency. The current European hours are held quarterly, as are the current hours following the current hour. In the run-up to the Austrian Presidency, I would see the presence of the Federal Chancellor as important. Therefore, I am somewhat irritated and believe that we should seriously consider how we will handle this in the future, because if it is the rule that the Federal Chancellor can be represented in the future, and only the exception that he is present, then we as Parliament should be somewhat opposed.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e5711	What is the point of the Rules of Procedure? I don't know yet. I can give Mr Wöginger the floor to business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e5738	Mr President. High house! It is necessary to make some clarifications in this regard: Austria is ahead of the EU Council Presidency with 1. It is therefore necessary for the Federal Chancellor to carry out all his duties in the EU area on July. This evening, the informal European Council is taking place in Sofia. In the afternoon, the Federal Chancellor meets the Serbian Prime Minister, the Bulgarian Prime Minister and the President of the European Parliament, Tajani – that is, if this does not require urgency, that the Federal Chancellor represent the Republic of Austria accordingly and conduct talks with these important personalities. The fact that the German Chancellor Merkel is still in the Bundestag in Berlin today is related to Germany's not standing before an EU Presidency, but that we are in charge of it on 1 January. July begins. In addition, it was already announced by the Federal Chancellery at a time before NEOS applied for this current hour on this subject and said to which members of the government they are addressing, that the Federal Chancellor is in Sofia today and tomorrow. It is important that German Chancellor Sebastian Kurz this date is in the sense of the Republic of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e5777	Mr Klubobmann Schieder spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e5802	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This seems to me to be a very important one, not limited to today's day, to a fundamental debate, namely the question of the Federal Chancellor's dealings with Parliament – the question of dealing with whether the Federal Chancellor, having regard to the principle law of Parliament, is being questioned here in the context of current hours and current European hours and must consider the discussion, take account of it or whether he is pressing for it to appear here. [[Call the ÖVP:Go! Go!]] I have looked closely at this, Mr President: Today at 8 o'clock was the Council of Ministers, and the Federal Chancellor took part in it. Today, the meeting of the Austrian National Council begins at 9 a.m., which has been clear for several months – clear to the members of the Federal Government and is also clear to the Chancellor, who also knows that a current hour of Europe is on the agenda today. This is precisely one of the decisive debates of Parliament in connection with Europe for the Austrian Presidency. I've been looking at this, too: The meeting, the European Summit, starts today, as Klubobmann Wöginger has rightly said, to eat at 7.30 p.m. with an evening. But it's not evening, it's not every day evening, it's early. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That is why we can already expect the Federal Chancellor not to take his travel plans so loosely that he simply does not appear here, but plans to speak and answer Parliament in the morning, then get on the plane and participate in EU meetings, as do all the other Heads of Government in Europe. And whatever goes on in Germany will probably go here, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and list of fungus.]] It is not in itself common – in itself we accept the representation reports – but in this specific case, because of the fact that Mr Bundeskanzler Kurz is also a repetition case, namely, that I would like to avoid appearing again and again in current debates here in Parliament, in accordance with § 18 para. 3 of our Rules of Procedure put forward a request concerning Mr Bundeskanzler and ask him to deal with it and vote on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e5862	This is, in itself, a debate for the President-in-Office. I would ask that this be dealt with in the future, but I shall put this motion for a resolution to the vote. Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e5889	Ladies and gentlemen, just a replica of Mr Schieder's comments: This request is completely unnecessary and unnecessary. It was appropriate to notify the Rules of Procedure accordingly that Chancellor Gernot Blümel should: Federal Chancellor represented at today's current hour and the current hour of Europe. But what is to be noted: Parliament is once again unthinkable. Whoever is missing is the opposition leader Christian Kern. That must be borne in mind in this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e5924	Mr Mag. Schieder has submitted the request for the Rules of Procedure, the National Council wishing to do so within the meaning of § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure require the presence of the Federal Chancellor. A debate on this request was not requested, so we shall be voting immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – That is the minority, so the request is rejected. [[09:16:30]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e5964	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “A future-fit budget for the EU: visionary, sustainable, fair and without fairy tales, Mr. Bundeskanzler!” First of all, Mrs Gamon is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e5991	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! An EU Presidency means having responsibility for Europe as a whole. It foresees doing what is right for all citizens of the Union and not just for one. That is also what it means to be pro-European. We have convened the current hour on this issue because, on the question of what the next EU financial framework should look like, we are greatly missing this sense of European responsibility from the Austrian Federal Government. This begins, of course, as already discussed, so that the Federal Chancellor is not present. Especially now that Austria is so close to the Presidency and the issue of the EU budget is becoming so urgent, it would be worth entering into a public debate here and also discussing it with the Austrian Parliament. It has always been said that this federal government should be measured by its actions, but the only thing that has been done in the past half year was to announce, announce, announce! But we are still waiting very well, because they must be measured by their actions. We have heard promises that we have heard of a more efficient EU, of an EU that is becoming stronger on the major issues and that we should also have more competences. What exactly is that? - Hmm?- Oh, my God! We're waiting for them to be measured by their actions. What we also agree with was a desire for more effective external border protection, but it was very reticent when it came to the question of: Should you also have more money – gross for net – in your hand take it and put it into the EU budget? – But we wait because: measure the actions and so on. But the measuring instrument has not yet been invented for these actions, because there is simply nothing. If this is measured by the words, there can be no pro-European value either. The European Commission has now presented a very comprehensive proposal for the next EU financial framework and has also given a clear focus to very forward-looking areas and, on the other hand, to those areas where the majority of the European population also clearly sees the division of tasks within the European Union. On the one hand, this is a significantly increased budget for EU external border protection, but also more money for the Erasmus programme, for example. At the same time, the major posts in which the distribution of funds now – let us say so – is not going to work optimally, even if this hurts everyone. This may not be the budget that will revolutionize the Union and its work, but we believe that this is a courageous step in the right direction. What are the Member States doing, including Austria? – Theater donner, dying swan and many battle attacks. Now the Minister of Finance has said – quote –: “We need to consider what are the really big issues and problems that we are dealing with together.” We've already heard for half a year: We need to look and we'll talk once! However, the Presidency is at the doorstep, and we believe that it would be time to put concrete proposals on the table. When it comes to talking about the really big issues and problems one can address in common, one must ask: Wouldn't that be external border protection? Wouldn't that also be a topic like Erasmus? Isn't that the research programme? External border protection is the number one hit of the Federal Government and, in principle, the ÖVP, already in the last two years. One gets the impression that it has already become politically difficult to comment positively even those proposals, which one also supports, when they come from someone else; then this will become a little more difficult again. This is actually very cynical and also bitter for the European debate and for our position in the European debate. The Federal Government claims to be very clear, completely pro-European. What is perfectly clear, however, I would like to put it down, because: What bar of measurement was set up to present something as completely clear? A few examples, which are not about clarity, but about contradiction: In the field of foreign policy, the Vice-Chancellor counters the Austrian line on the topic of Western Balkans. Agro-promoting: It is said, however, that we do not want to save a slender EU, the largest post, the agricultural sector, and not in Lower Austria. Or to the budget in general, it was said for months, you don't want to pay any more, and now suddenly the story changes: There was not an absolute amount meant, but only a percentage, quite clearly, that we have always meant that – inconsistency, inconsistency. This is all as clear as the water in the Danube Channel, and there are other things that are unclear, for example, when it comes to the scenario 4 in the White Paper of the President of the Commission Juncker. With this “scenario 4: Weni- You seem to feel the most comfortable in official Austria, but more efficient. – Fair enough, you can find it okay, if you tell you what you want less, what you want more efficiently. They do not seem to have read the scenario to the end, for for example: The EU budget is to be significantly redesigned to meet the new priorities of the EU-27. – It does not say that it should be in line with the priorities of the Austrian Farmers' Federation, and that is exactly what makes the small but important difference. [[Rejoicing with Members of the NEOS.]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We also know the old story for a long time that we need to save in the administration of the European Union. This is a point on which the experts have the highest eye roles, because, as we know, the administration accounts for only 6 percent of the Union's total budget. The number of officials has not increased over the past five years, but the tasks they have to master have become more. It sounds good if you want to save on the administration, especially in Brussels. But you know that this statement is dishonest and not pro-European. We believe that a constructive European dialogue needs different statements, but above all concrete ones. They bear responsibility for the outcome of a budget that is visionary and that can also meet future challenges. This includes a lot: external border protection, but also climate change, the costs, consequences and possibilities of digitalisation, a common security and defence policy. This requires not only a little courage, but above all also the courage to say yes. It takes the courage to confess if you think something is good, it takes the courage to look away from it if you can't make a small domestic policy from a point of view. The Union has not yet grown up to the community of opportunities that we would like to see, for example, as it could be. The EU budget is not yet efficient enough. Many subsidies, which make up a large part of the budget, do not achieve the desired effect. That is why it would be all the more important to get into the middle of this debate, namely constructive, not theatre donors. That is something we expect from this federal government. I would like to draw attention to the proposals that will now be put forward in the debate when it comes to what is to be changed. We will now keep in mind how many speeches we will hear today: less, more efficient, one must look, we will see, we will talk about it. We want concrete answers, and especially now that the Presidency is just ahead of the door, it is really time to deliver them.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e6098	The Federal Minister for European Union, Art, Culture and the Media has referred to a preliminary opinion. I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e6120	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe for the opening debate a few words: It has been criticised that the Federal Chancellor is actually doing exactly what he was accused of wasting, namely taking care of the preparation of the presidency. Especially when the Presidency is at the door, with important dossiers and questions – how is enlargement going on at the Western Balkans, how do we want to shape the multiannual financial framework? – it is important for him to get in touch with his colleagues, and that is exactly what he is doing today. He meets with the Serbian Prime Minister, he meets with the Bulgarian Prime Minister, so he actually fulfills all that you have just asked of him, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The current issue is how to deal with the multiannual financial framework. I do not have the title of the current hour exactly in my mind now, but it goes towards a budget that is finally concrete or forward-looking. Perhaps a few facts about the comparison and also the explanation for the ladies and gentlemen who watch on the gallery and in front of the television screens, which is the EU budget at all: One can, of course, compare it to a certain degree, of course, with a national budget, and the national budget is only substantially different. We have just decided on the national budget, and it has also been decided here in the House. It has been negotiated for two years, totaling 160 billion euros. It has been negotiated within the Federal Government for a few weeks, and it has been discussed in detail here in Parliament. It is made for about nine million inhabitants. The EU budget will be negotiated for seven years. It is being negotiated for 27 states. It is being negotiated for 500 million people. It has a volume of about 1 trillion euros over this period, and the negotiation period was about two years ago. So the European budget is definitely a mammoth project that we want to tackle now. New challenges will also be discussed under new conditions. Unfortunately, we all know that the UK has decided to leave the European Union. This also removes a major contributor in this budget. We are also negotiating this budget against the background of new challenges as regards migration in Europe. The first step was that all countries have tried to define a position even externally. This has not only been done by us Austrians, but also by many other countries. We said: 1 percent of gross national income has been up to now and 1 percent is expected to be in the future. The institutions have declared themselves, they have said what they would like. The European Parliament has said it would like 1.3 percent. The Commission, which makes the proposal, on the basis of which it is being negotiated, adopted its proposal on 2 July. May presented; it reads: 1.11 percent of the gross national income of the 27 Member States is expected to be available for the future budget, which, according to Commission proposals, would be EUR 1 279 billion for these seven years. The second step – in order to put it into practice at the same time – is that the proposals for the 37 programmes established within this overall budget will be concretely implemented by about mid-June. The third step is then to start negotiations, with the talks at the June European Council, where we will discuss what the timetable should look like. The Commission is in favour of a very ambitious timetable. Many countries have meant that they will not get that much. As President-in-Office of the Council, we want to try to make the negotiations as fast and ambitious as possible. We have chosen the Austrian position, the position of this federal government, with regard to this multi-annual financial framework. We said that 1% of gross national income must be high. We have been criticised for this, including the opposition, but we have finally experienced a great deal of support for this position in the General Affairs Council yesterday. Of course, there are new challenges. Of course, we also want to have more money where Europe should do more, such as external border protection. As in Austria, however, we also believe at European level that we should save on the system and not on people that we want to compensate for the loss of the UK's exit, not through new money from the Member States, but through savings in the system. It is precisely for this position that we have experienced very, very much in the General Affairs Council, let us say that! The discussion was public, many supported us, the Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark, Finland and also Germany meant that 1 percent was probably a good starting point. We have heard a lot of encouragement, it was the right decision to take this position, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It has not been a surprise for the Commission either, because we have just made it clear in time what we stand for. The Commission's draft is not yet acceptable to us. Commissioner Oettinger also said that he was not surprised by our statement that he expected that this would be the case. Of course, as I said. The Commission has proposed to spend more than we have proposed. There are some areas with which we have a big problem, and I will come to the concrete amendments that we have. Of course, there is also good; for example, in Section IV. Migration and Border Management is expected to increase by almost 200 percent. That's exactly what we said: External border protection needs an appreciation, and 35 billion euros and the announced approximately 10,000 border guards are a step in the right direction. We do not agree on other areas, for example in Section VII. European Public Administration, i.e. public administration in Europe, an increase of more than 20 percent to 85 billion euros. We do not agree with this because we say that savings in the system are also necessary at European level. We have done this in Austria, we also demand it from every other unit. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Member of the European Parliament Gamon has demanded that we put concrete proposals on the table, for which we now stand. I'm very, very happy to do this. For example, saving in the system, in the European administration – quite specifically –: no increase. This would bring a lot of savings, which is a concrete proposal. We have said in Austria that only every third point of the plan should be re-occupied. Why not implement the same at European level? [[Abg. Plessl: Talk to...! ... can't do that!]] Why not also reduce the number of Commissioners? We have long said that it is no longer necessary for each country to have a Commissioner. [[Abg. Gamon: Do we leave first?]] If we could narrow this down, we could do some things to make sure that the administration doesn't spend so much money. This is a very concrete proposal which is put on the table here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] We are constantly talking about reducing jobs for digitalisation, because there are repetitive processes that could be done by machines in the future. I don't know who of you goes to a bank store regularly; that doesn't happen as often as before, we have all e-banking on the phone. This, of course, reduces the staff costs of the banks. This principle could also be applied in the European administration and in the national administration, as digitisation could increase savings potential. Or cohesion: We are of course in favour of balancing the differences in economic development within the European Union. This is perfectly clear, we also benefit from it, but one can also do more efficiently by, for example, raising a little with regard to the own resources contributions that need to be co-financed. This would have the effect of making it more efficient to consider more precisely what projects you are applying for, and this would, of course, mean huge savings potential. This too is a very concrete proposal as you wanted it to be. The agricultural sector has also been mentioned: It is very important to us that we should also pay attention to what the European Commission is constantly saying, namely that it has to be a concrete added value. We want this added value. However, this added value is not to promote large international agricultural groups. Take, for example, RWE with a volume of sales of – I have selected this exactly – 45 billion euros. RWE received direct payments of half a million euros in 2016. This is not what we mean by added value, which is to be created by the first pillar, agricultural policy! However, when it comes to strengthening rural family farms, particularly in the mining sector, in the context of rural development, added value is given. There are concrete examples of where little money can be achieved, where farmed family farms can generate an additional income. This will preserve landscape care, which will again bring great added value to tourism. We see the added value here and, of course, we must not be reduced, because that is exactly the added value that we need in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] External border protection must be strengthened, for which we are 100%, I have already said that. We also see a step in the right direction in the Commission's proposal. With regard to the rules on migration, a solution must also be found, which may also cost more money. As a former Erasmus student, I am also pleased that there is more money in Erasmus. This exchange of young people within Europe must be promoted. These are all areas where we say: Yes, we are in favour of taking in more money! The role of the Austrian Presidency will be to create and convey a balance between negotiating positions. That is why it was important for us to make it clear in time before the Presidency of the Council, which is Austria's position on the multiannual financial framework, namely: 1 percent, no more, no less. We want a speedy negotiation process. Because of the discussion in the General Affairs Council, I am not sure how fast it will be. We're available to start the talks. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e6217	I should like to draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants must not exceed 5 minutes. I warmly welcome the Maturants of the HTL Krems. – Welcome to the Hohe Haus! [[General condolences.]] I call Mr Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e6253	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say something basic at the beginning: The European Union is currently in no simple situation: 2008 the financial and economic crisis, 2015 the refugee crisis, 2016 the Brexit decision – these were, of course, setbacks. You have to see that. All the more so, the European Union now needs to be ready for compromise from all 27 Member States and also from all 27 Member States for a fundamental yes to solidarity. What do I mean by that? – The European Union only works if one is ready to negotiate patiently, that has already been addressed by Minister Blümel. It is often difficult to negotiate, it is about devoting various interests to a result in the end, borne by a fundamental principle of solidarity. Austria was always ready to do so. I was last in these negotiations as the Secretary of State for Finance on the Multiannual Financial Framework, which forms the basis for the current seven-year EU budget. At the beginning the positions are far apart. Minister Blümel mentioned that the Council of Ministers delivered a foretaste on Monday, where there was the first opportunity to comment on this proposal from the EU Commission. The Eastern and Central European countries as well as the southern European countries have said very clearly that they want to resist because there are cuts for structurally weak regions. France has spoken and has sought to ensure that there are no savings in direct payments to farmers and that savings in this area are clearly rejected. Then there have been four states, Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden and Finland, which have declared: Just as the Commission has proposed this increase – the basis of assessment is gross national income in the States – from 1 per cent to 1.1 per cent is not possible. For example, Ann Linde, the Swedish Minister of Europe, has clearly said that one will fight against it. The European position is not yet available, but it is to be worked on. The position of the Austrian Federal Government is 100% right, because this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, is the lawyer of Austrian taxpayers. You have to see that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It's our tax money and with it you have to be careful and economical. The fact that there are other points of view, such as those of the European Parliament, is already known, and therefore, I say, we must consider what the Federal Government has clearly defined in the government programme: We want more Europe where there is an added value, but there are many areas where you can work more efficiently and where there is less. Mr Gamon, you have asked where the concrete proposals are. I did on 28 May. On 1 March, all the parliamentary groups submitted to the Task Force, President Jean-Claude Juncker, a task force, including three representatives from the 28 other national parliaments and three representatives from the Committee of the Regions, chaired by the Vice-President of the European Commission of Timmermans. I have put forward 50 very concrete proposals, you have known them since 28. There are these proposals from our side. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] By the way, they have not been prepared by me, much comes from the nine federal states, much comes from the Federal Council, much comes from the social partners, from the municipal government and from the municipal government. There are these concrete examples that show where Europe is currently superfluous. This is not anti-European, it is in the interest of the European Union, because the European Union needs the acceptance of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we must fight for the European Union to remain close to its citizens. That's our position! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the British have adopted themselves by the European Union, the Brexit is a fact. If there are fewer citizens in the European Union, fewer women, I cannot say at the same time that the budget has to rise. With Great Britain, we are losing the second largest net payer, and we must take this into account, so we need a slimmer, a more economical, more efficient EU. That's our goal. Hard and long negotiations are before us.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e6319	Klubobmann Mag is reported to speak. Andreas Schieder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e6343	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, since this is a European policy issue and Mr Lopatka has also begun to look at Europe in principle, I would like to make a fundamental point: We must be careful that we are not tipping into this cheap anti-European, anti-EU populism, and then it is said that the European Union is actually just a bureaucratic, incorruptible, money-pleasing monster. – No: The European Union is the basis of our economic progress, our prosperity and our democratic and human rights freedom. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] The European Union is the answer to the horrors of the Second World War. Taking this into account, we also need to listen carefully to what is being done with the European Union when it comes to money. I've been looking at this. ==References====External links== March 2017 said: ‘Of course, that’s not to say that it costs more money, ‘it needs a change of course’. ‘[...] in no way [...] higher contributions from net payers’, Kurz stated. In October 2017, a few days before the National Council election, it was still fully promised. ==References== January of this year said: “No further financial burdens, if any. ” – I understand this word, it is not talking about the percentage ratio to gross national product, but about no more cents than before. But you don't have to go that far back to the past, nor do you. May Sebastian Kurz said: ‘There can be no unilateral additional burden on net payers.’ So, and then this famous message control, which the new ÖVP has established around Sebastian Kurz – it doesn't matter if something is right or not, everyone has to say the same again and again – should have collapsed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] All at once, it is said by Gernot Blümel, the Minister of Europe: “Well, that’s not exactly what you can say.” That's an interesting change of mind. By the way, that was on the same 2nd. May, on which Sebastian Kurz has just said, “no one - sided extra burden should come. ” Can you say that so precisely now, or can't you say it so accurately? There is a great contradiction within the ÖVP team. Minister of Finance Löger, who has established himself here as a man of numbers, has said at all: “We know it will be more.” – That’s interesting: more, less, at the beginning no more cent, then no more percent; at once: Well, well, you can't say it's going to be more!; then on Twitter the back rowing comes: No, it's not so much more, we'll be very hard! Minister of Europe Blümel sets out some invoices that in relation to gross national product and if GDP grows and something else will come out. So, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot make European policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] For this reason alone, it would have happened that the Federal Chancellor would have been here today, then he could not only have answered this, but perhaps even once understood that his appointment, which he is presenting, does not continue. What do we want? . We Socialists also want a economical Union, but we want a Union that is more capable of performing the tasks it can perform than any individual Member State. That means: In addition to a economical Union, we also want a European Union that is finally using its power to say: We want to introduce a barrage to the unhindered international markets, to tax loopholes, to these illegal and legal tax evasion possibilities that large companies use. This can only be done if we do so together, because then no European country can be blackmailed by large international corporations. Together we can say we're putting a bar on it. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union, the taxpayer, is missing 1 000 billion euros a year. There is no need to talk about the budget – whether it should be a little more or a little less, whether I am hard or not – and we could use this EUR 1,000 billion to make Europe better. We could use them to improve the education of students in Europe, to strengthen social security, to increase infrastructure to implement climate change. All of this could be done at EUR 1,000 billion. But what does the Austrian Federal Government do? It is right to vote in favour of the black list taking away the worst tax evasion loopholes, such as Panama. This is not a European policy, as we imagine it. This Federal Government is making a European policy for the big corporations and for the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's the point, you have to decide in politics: Do you stand for content? Do you stand for justice? Do you want to use Europe to change something? Or do you just blow cheap anti-European propaganda here? We are facing this decision today, and I think you can choose it: Like the government, everyone says something else every day, the main thing is that the European Union is getting bad – or finally the sleeves start to cremulate and work for a better Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e6414	Mr Johann Gudenus is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e6440	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! The debate that took place in the early part of the debate is, in turn, proof that the opposition is not going to take place. [[Abg. Loacker: When?]] It's all the media, the opposition isn't coming in the alleys. Mr Strolz leaves Parliament – he and not Mr. Kern are apparently opposition leaders. This is very interesting when comparing the size of the parties. The opposition seems to be looking for every straw to perform a staging, to perform a lubrication comedy, as it is today in the early days. In a completely meaningless way, the absence of the Federal Chancellor Kern, who was announced – he was apologised – and was also discussed yesterday in the EU's main committee. [[Abg. Scherak: This is parliamentarianism, but you don't know it!]] [[Abg. Drozda: The Federal Chancellor Kern is here anyway!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what you have listed today is simply embarrassing, embarrassing! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It's really embarrassing, that's a completely pointless show you staged here, a crochet. Mr Kern was not present at an early stage, as was the case with the vote on the budget. He usually shines more by absence than by presence. [[Call the SPÖ:Enter it into the classbook!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, please take the dignity of the house a little more seriously, that you owe the electorate, really true! [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ, NEOS and list Pilz]] [[Call the SPÖ: There is no such thing!]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Schieder comes out with a broad breast and speaks of social security as a social democracy – the concept of social democracy would suggest it. The party that has caused the greatest poverty in Vienna, the party that has caused the greatest poverty in Austria, and the movement that has caused the greatest poverty in Europe, is that party, the social democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] In fact, your party is neither social nor democratic, ladies and gentlemen, and you know that very well. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They always come out and talk about social thought, and you know very well that you have caused poverty in Austria and have imported more poverty in recent years. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: On the matter!]] This is your concept, ladies and gentlemen, so it looks like the concept of SPÖ. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: On the matter, Mr Colleague!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] When it comes to the European Union – the NEOS have requested the current hour –: You know very well that the European Union is not equal to Europe. Your principle is yes: We love Europe! - That's nice, that's all right. Love is something nice to love someone or something is something very special, it gnashes, there you have butterflies in your belly. Mr Strolz, one could probably think that it is almost like hugging trees. But it is a lot, much more, ladies and gentlemen. The government – and this is clearly in the government programme – stands for subsidiarity; less, but more efficient, but above all subsidiarity. [[Abg. Loacker: What does that mean?]] The government, of course, is also in favour of being the taxpayer's lawyer and not delivering more to Brussels if it does not have to be. That's what the Federal Government stands for, and that's a good thing. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Please do not confuse your love for the European Union or for Europe with submission, not submission, that is not good. [[Abg. Scherak: I don't know what ideas you have of love!]] That is why I do not understand the debate this morning: On the one hand, you criticise the fact that Mr Bundeskanzler Kurz is in Brussels or is now in Sofia, on the other hand, you say that we should go more in the same way as the EU, for example in the debate on the designation of diplomats from the countries of the European Union. I am proud, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria has remained true to its own line with Foreign Minister Karin Kneissel, to be a bridgehead, to be a dialogue platform, not to identify diplomats and not to stop talking channels. That was a good decision, we stand by it, and we want to continue this policy. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It does not help to say, as the SPÖs say, that we should march or leave even more in the EU. We don't need that, ladies and gentlemen. We are concerned with representing Austrian interests in Brussels in such a way that voters are satisfied and that, in particular, taxpayers are satisfied.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e6643	Mr Strolz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e6665	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! Mr Gudenus, you are talking about straws; what we are actually looking for is the chancellor. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: He's apologizing!]] [[Abg. Cashier: He works for Europe and the Republic!]] The Federal Government and the government parties are now intensifying the pressure on the students in tailing, and after #AnswerLikeKurz now comes #SchänzenLikeKurz. It is not all right that Parliamentaryism should not be taken seriously. [[Abg. Gudenus: Do you take the EU seriously or not?]] If it is the German Chancellor – and it does not find itself in any other way, it is quite a relevant person – who is today in the Bundestag, manages to set her dates in such a way that she can go in sincere debates with the Bundestag in Germany, then I expect this also from the Austrian Chancellor – and not that he is weakening here for the fourth time in a row. [[Abg. Gudenus: Actually not really!]] That's not all right. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] If it were today for the first time – purchased, accepted, but if it is for the fourth time, then there will be a pattern that we do not accept. We are elected representatives of the people, and especially in the run-up to the Austrian Presidency, the Chancellor also has to inform the people, including, and in particular, in the context of a parliamentary debate, when he is invited to do so. Content: Mr Blümel, the pain that I have – it is always happening when they are read by the paper – is causing the ambivalence which this Federal Government is consciously showing, i.e. these contradictions when it comes to Europe. This has begun with the day of the announcement of the government programme. While you stood at Kahlenberg and announced the government programme, a few more hills have been in Prague FPÖ representatives at a meeting of these outside rights groups – yes, they also belong to the EU – which officially expose the destruction of the EU as a political goal. [[Abg. Gudenus: They also belong to the EU! Isn't it?]] [[Abg. Gudenus: That's democracy, Mr. Strolz!]] [[Abg. Stefan: Destroy?]] [[Abg. Gudenus: You want to destroy Austria by the state of the EU! The state is called annihilation of Austria!]] Then it goes on; They say: We are pro-European, but you are consciously putting tips on the European Union. Mr Gudenus, you say, for example: We don't want to deliver money to Brussels! – This is not money for Brussels, which is money for a common budgeting of this common Union. You have not understood this in your heart and you also refuse to understand it intellectually. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The European Union is the basis for our peace, it is the basis for our quality of life, for prosperity, for our generation – Mr Gudenus, you have just become a father – for the generation of our children. And it's quite clear: Either we cultivate together or we will drift into one another. [[Abg. Gudenus: This is black and white painting, I would say!]] That's just history. You have it otherwise with the story and the explanation and the folklore. [[Abg. Hibart: Maria!]] Look You're looking at the story: For centuries the skulls have been struck on this continent, and now we have been at peace for 70 years because we have joined an agreement project. We must and should continue to do this! They all want better external border protection. Minister Blümel says that at last 10,000 border guards come to the EU's external border. I think we need 30,000, that's a long line. Minister, this is a long border. We have been calling for 30 000 people at the external border for years because we also have to understand and take our border seriously. It is our external border – in Greece, in Italy, also in Hungary, and we need to cultivate it together. Anyone who comes in must be registered. If we don't make it, we won't take it seriously. Fortunately, in Europe there are a lot of young people – I see young people up there at the top of the gallery – who have great jobs, but also many who are unemployed, up to 45 percent in some member countries. We know that in 2020 in Europe a million jobs in the computer industry, in the field of information and communication technology cannot be filled. We have a million jobs, but we can't occupy them. If we had a European Council with ministers and Heads of Government with a little imagination, a vision for this continent, then they would say that we are making Europe a pioneer in digitization, we will create a million new jobs within the next few months. Then you could create things like the FH Hagenberg in Upper Austria, a great educational institution. It is not a rocket science, to say, we take the FH Hagenberg as a good-practice example and we build it once in Flanders, once in Istria, once in southern Bohemia, once in Carinthia, and we create those jobs that are also asked for. That would be a task for Europe if you had a little imagination. I come to my conclusion: We need a determined Europe on these issues, and this must also be worth us because it is for the benefit of the population. That's why: Come on, determined forward!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e6841	Mr Rossmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e6862	Mr President. Federal Minister! Not present Mr. Sebastian Kurz! The calculation is difficult for the ÖVP, I have found. Today, Minister of Europe, you have managed to present your position properly. They have decided – and this is what the Government Declaration says inside – that the EU budget should not account for more than 1% of the gross national product of all EU countries. In the last days – please, listen to me now! [[towards Federal Minister Blümel, who talks with an employee]] We are talking about something very important now, Minister of Europe. – You have repeatedly said that the share of the Republic should not exceed 1 percent of the economic performance – the share of the Republic! [[Consistency with the list of mushrooms]] Don't look at me like that, you said that in Brussels! [[towards Federal Minister Blümel, who looks at him questioningly]] Today you have obvious Your briefing is really read and properly reproduced – I congratulate you. But the calculation is still very difficult. The position of the ÖVP and also the FPÖ was always the following: We want to put less money into the EU budget, but we want more resources to do so. As an example, the protection of external borders has always been mentioned. As another example – as Mrs Elisabeth Köstingersehr pointed out – agriculture has always been emphasized. There must, of course, be no less resources for agriculture. It did not then differentiate between the large agricultural industry and direct payments and the many small farmers in rural areas – no. Where it is about existence, it has said, it is simply and simply not to be shortened. In the case of minimum security in Austria, it may be shortened. – That’s what it’s all about. If – and now I come back to the starting point – the EU budget is to remain unchanged in relation to the EU budget and a potential payer, namely the UK, falls away, then the following happens: All other countries have to pay more – no, that's a very simple calculation exercise. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] The only one in your party who has recognized this correctly, Minister Blümel, was the Member of the European Parliament, Othmar Karas, who meant: Everyone has to pay more, also Austria! [[Abg. Rosary: Bravo!]] [[Abg. Gudenus: That would not be the first time!]] Then, Mr Gudenus, your Member of the European Parliament has gone up and has meant to be a response to Karas and Co: The exclusive entrance of Karas and Co against Austrian interests is counterproductive! – Is the EU budget and the EU financial framework now about Austrian interests, or is it about European interests? [[Abg. Kassinger: This is no contradiction!]] [[Abg. Gudenus: To Austrian interests in the contribution payments!]] Of course, this is a contradiction. The EU budget is about programmes that benefit everyone and not just Austria. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list, as well as on SPÖ and NEOS delegates.]] What you represent here is an anti-European position, and the ÖVP is taking part in this water. Yeah, she's playing the piano of nationalism. I think this is a very harmful attitude. [[Abg. Neubauer: You have an anti-Austrian attitude!]] It thus puts at risk the European added value and even the future of the European Union. How should one actually proceed if one wants to get closer to the question, how much more than Austria and all the others are to pay into the EU budget? This is not about winning a few net payment countries. They mentioned some of them, Minister of Europe: The Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark and Finland. – These are with Austria five, five out of 27. [[Federal Minister Blümel: Germany too!]] In other words, the majority voted in favour of a completely different position, in favour of paying more funds into the European position. [[Abg. Wöginger:... for the minority!]] If you believe that you can compensate for the failures of the United Kingdom with your attitude to save in the system, I can only answer you: This is ridiculous, Minister of Europe! [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] Given the challenges facing the European Union, we need more money for the European budgetary framework, not less, but more – in the medium term anyway, because a monetary union – which the US shows – cannot live with a budget that is only 1% of the gross national income of all European states. What are the challenges? – The challenges are research and innovation – that is, a future area – climate protection, digitalization. But there is also much to be done in the area of unemployment, youth unemployment.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7013	Final word, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7029	I'll be right back to the final word. Faced with these challenges, I think it is not responsible for a European budget which is set aside for cuts. This is not a pro-European attitude. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Think about Alois Mock, who always had a pro-European attitude as long as he was Vice-Chancellor! [[Abg. Gudenus: This is the Austrian Parliament here! We represent Austria!]] But what you're doing here, you're apologizing, with permission, that's pathetic.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7072	Before I give the floor to Mr Strasser, I should like to welcome the students of the private New Secondary School Linz to our House.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7100	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Introducing a thought on Brexit: In 2016, in a small round, we had a Tory member from the UK who told us a little about the dynamics of Brexit. He was a Brexiter, a real horny Tory, a British MP. He told us that they were actually surprised that this vote was going to be the way it went. He noted that he felt that a certain superiority of the remainers was responsible for the British saying: Yeah, let's go! I would also like to say: The outcome of the Brexit negotiations is still completely open. Above all, it is still quite open how British exodus will turn out in the real economy. What do we want from Europe? – We wish ourselves a slim Europe. We wish ourselves a strong Europe. We wish for a Europe that is a little more self-evident, because we too are always fighting to have to explain Europe. I would assume that it is necessary for Europe to explain itself better. We have to watch – in fact, the lessons from the Brexit – that we pick people up where they actually stand. I say very briefly to the Presidency and to our principles: We'll be a neutral mediator, a host. We will show ourselves from our best side. We will have the topics of security and migration on the agenda. We will talk about economic power and quality of life. We are talking about the internal market, we are talking about EU external trade. We will also talk – Mr Schieder is unfortunately not here at the moment – about fiscal justice, which will also be important in the European context. [[Abg. Arbitrators are behind the government bank]] [[Call the SPÖ: There it stands!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: I'm here anyway!]] [[Abg. Plessl: You need to look more closely, he's here anyway!]] And we will work with all our strength at this time to ensure that this European Union is developing well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now some thoughts about the EU budget: I am grateful for some of the suggestions that have come from my previous speakers. We have a few principles with which we are going into our negotiations. One is the requirement of economy and efficiency. Yes, we want a slim Europe – that is fixed for us. We also want to ensure the financing of the common agricultural policy, because these payments are an important source of income for farmers and because farmers in that country do great things. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rosary.]] We will have to find the subject of security and migration in this package. We also want to see research and education prominently represented there. I am grateful for Matthias Strolz's reference to Hagenberg. Hagenberg is located in the Mühlviertel. Hagenberg did not come from the fact that a comet was sent from the European Union to Hagenberg and because something from far, far away has emerged, but Hagenberg has emerged because there local politicians, state politicians, federal politicians, together with the European Union have set up a centre that is really a best-practice example of regional development. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Gudenus.]] This connection, Mr Strolz, always leaves me in the very centralist world of NEOS. We need all levels that work together forcefully. Hagenberg is a very, very good example of this. Total: How are we going into the negotiations? – What we don't need is forerunnerous obedience. You, Mr Strolz, are, I believe, also economic operators. If one goes into negotiations, one will not say from the very beginning what is still possible. Negotiating positions have been announced. Negotiations are still under way and we will work fully to ensure that the best is for the Austrian population, but also for the people in the regions of Europe. That is what we are fighting with full determination. – Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7192	Mr Jan Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7213	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I find today's concept of the ÖVP interesting. Mr Wöginger said that there was no such thing as a Member's core. - He's here. Mr Strasser has just said that Parliamentary arbitrators would not be there. - He's here, too. The only one who weakens today is German Chancellor Kurz. You can't distract from that, even if you still point so much with your fingers to others who are still here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: You started, not us! You'll have to get out of this when you start it!]] As far as European policy is concerned, Mr Strolz is perfectly right, I experience in this debate – and not just today – that it is perfectly contradictory. There are 28 countries that fill a Community fund and make common expenditure from there. One goes out like from a WG, but therefore the rent does not fall away and electricity and gas costs do not fall away either. [[Abg. Little: But the current is getting less!]] What does that mean at the end of the day? – Well, that means, of course, you can see that everyone gets a little less that you can save. But you also have to look at this a little realistic. It also means that everyone has to contribute a little more. There is also a minister with you who has shown a little sense of reality here, namely the Minister of Finance. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] He didn't say anything else. He said: Of course, at the end of the day, Austria will have to pay more and it will become less obvious than today, because it is simply a need to have a logic, something that must happen almost automatically, if you think briefly about how and according to which rules the European Union is working. What's going on? – There will be rebuffed and there will continue to be a refusal of reality. It's actually going to run suffocation, and here nebula grenades are thrown here. They say: We're fighting! It won't be a euro anymore! But we'll get a lot back! – No one believes you, because anyone who thinks only 10 seconds of it knows that can't vote and at the end of the day Austria will get more numbers and less out. This applies, of course, to all the other 26 countries that remain in the European Union. You don't need to perform a theatre and not be a special fighter, but you can just tell people the truth: It'll come out in the end. One should represent Austrian interests – yes, but of course with a certain sense of reality. Nor is the sense of reality there, when you say that the European Union should do what we do in Austria, namely save in the system. If the European Union were to do what you are doing, you would be quite upset – just as little you have saved in the Austrian system. What did you do? – You have once introduced police commissioners, you ensure that the personnel costs in the federal government of course rise massively – do not fall, they will be higher in the next few years. You would like to tell the European Union that it is to achieve a zero-percent increase in its expenditure, in its administrative expenditure. They say: 20 percent increase in the European Union. Has It looks at what the forecast inflation trend is in the seven years? 18 to 20 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] This means that the administrative expenditure of the European Union is likely to increase as much as inflation. In Austria they climb more. You expect more and more from the European Union than you yourself are willing to contribute. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] One point that really irritates me is the following: About 24 years ago, there was a debate on Austria's accession to the European Union. At the time, we Socialists said that if we join, we can maintain our higher environmental standards and our higher social standards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] The ÖVP has said that too. A party, namely the FPÖ, said: No, if we join, environmental and social standards will go down. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] [[Abg. Hauser: Ederer-Tausender! Uncovered check!]] Now I notice, after 24 years: You didn't go down! But now FPÖ is in the government, and what do ÖVP and FPÖ decide? – You say we will abolish the higher environmental and social standards. They call it Gold Plating in the meantime. [[Abg. Little: Please go!]] You found a different word. [[Abg. New builder: That costs a lot of money!]] Yes, in Austria we have partly higher environmental standards and higher social standards than the other states in the European Union. [[Abg. Wöginger: We have higher red tape standards!]] We are proud of this, we have promised. You're about to get rid of this. I say to you: There you do not make policy for the people in this country, there you make policy for the corporations! – We reject that.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7366	I call Mr Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7388	Thank you. . Now I have to clarify something because Mr Krainer has once again tried this narrative that the Chancellor would deliberately withdraw from this debate today. Let's see how this went! It is not true that this item on the agenda has been on the agenda for a long time, and the Chancellor is reluctant to hold discussions abroad to avoid the discussion. It's exactly the other way round. You knew before you asked for this item on the agenda that Mr. Chancellor would not be there. Nevertheless, you have put this item on the agenda and then stand here today and claim that the chancellor is not here. This is the seriousness I agree with you – which you have called for. [[Call the ÖVP: Very good!]] That means: You have said that the chancellor does not take Parliament seriously, but in fact it is exactly the other way round! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] You do not take Parliament seriously because, although you knew that the chancellor would not be there, you are performing an ape circus here and complain that exactly what is going on in the Constitution and also in the Rules of Procedure, namely that the Minister can represent the chancellor if the chancellor has no time for legitimate reasons. [[Abg. Stroll: For the fourth time! He's blacking for the fourth time!]] Now explain this to me! First, let's look at the title of the current hour that you have chosen today: Future-fitted EU budget without fairy tales. One has to question the seriousness of this title alone. Then the question arises: What can Mr Blümel tell you about what you expected from the Chancellor? When it comes to the EU budget – and you are not concerned – we are at the outset. We are at the beginning of a long, long discussion, where at the end there will be an outcome, which will, of course, be a compromise. At the beginning to say something about the end and the result is impossible. That's why you can't expect concrete figures to be put on the table today. What you can expect is – and you have heard from the Minister, but you do not seem to want to hear that – that we do not want to pay any more. Why is this happening? – If I go into a negotiation just like the SPÖ and say that we are of course paying more, then this is exactly what came out at the time of the accession negotiations, where we said that we were coming anyway, no matter what comes out. That is why the result was also the same. That's the point. That is, if we say we don't pay anymore, we have a good negotiating position. Look, Mr Strolz, you know that too. I'm not telling you anything new. But you're delivering a show here today, and I'm sorry because you're about to leave and you're not supposed to remember it. You better do that, I know. [[Abg. Stroll shakes the head laughingly.]] [[Abg. Scherak: Who knows what remains of you?- Oh, my God!]] That's why: If you stop presenting a show here, we'll talk about it very seriously! If we say we don't want to pay anymore, that's reasonable. Why? – The European Union must renew itself, it must once define what it wants to do. [[Abg. Stroll: We are the European Union! Who is the European Union?]] This is about agricultural support – there is a lot on the move. This is the basic question we are dealing with Turkey. We have already paid €9 billion for pre-accession aid. How's that going? This is, of course, also a question of immigration, because it will also cost a lot of money. Then, in principle, we need to talk about what we want at all. Do we want what Avramopoulos wants, namely millions of immigrants in the next few years? Do we want to see over 100 million people in Europe in the next few years in addition to what is contained in the UN inventory migration report? Is that what we want? – If, yes, then we have to talk about the budget, but at the very end. It is only when you know what you even want to do that when you end up talking about money. You know that, of course. [[Congratulations on members of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The SPÖ is really great at all. The SPÖ already knows what comes out: We just have to pay more! – This is the SPÖ’s policy. If one cannot operate, the taxes will simply be increased. That's what we've experienced in the last decades. [[Abg. Plessl: There have long been commitments!]] That's how the SPÖ does it. What we want is something else. First of all, we want to find out: Can you save? And you can save. [[Abg. Lightenness: Yes, do you want to find out now?]] Then it is about using the money where it actually brings added value. The nice thing about this 1 percent, which all want to increase – the SPÖ wants 1.2 percent, I don't know, you want 1.3 percent of GDP – is that the EU itself has the power to get more money, because if the economic performance of the Member States increases, the contribution also increases. [[towards NEOS]] [[Abg. Lightenness: What you know!]] Thus, in the European Union, we only have to make a proper economic policy, and it automatically increases every year of the contribution without having to pay more in relation to GDP. That's a very simple thing. To say that we pay more and do not want reforms, is certainly the wrong way, because we know from experience that only when it comes to money is the opposite prepared to introduce reforms. We want to see these reforms in the European Union, and at the end of the day we are talking about money.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7521	Mrs Doppelbauer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7542	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about the EU budget, we also talk about agricultural policy. With 40 percent of the budget and 60 billion euros per year, this is an important part that can be taken out. At the outset, however, it is particularly important to me to say how essential the CAP, i.e. the common agricultural policy, is as the oldest, only one and still the most financially important common policy area of the EU, because it is through the second pillar, i.e. for the development of rural areas, that funding for sustainable management is provided, which, from my point of view, are useful, valuable and well thought out. Nevertheless, I must also point to the lack of transparency in the second pillar; it is generally known that significant sums in the administration and ultimately among the ÖVP mayors in the country are simmering. During the Austrian Presidency in the second half of the year, intensive negotiations will continue on the common agricultural policy at EU level, especially in the context of the UK's withdrawal. Brexit is the second largest net payer from the European Union, and the estimates are that we have to compensate between 10 and 14 billion euros. Consequently, the EU agricultural budget will not be able to remain unaffected. Budget Commissioner Günther Oettinger has already announced a general reduction: 5 to 6 percent, those were his words. As a government, we can and must already think, in particular, of the strategy to prepare ourselves for Brexit and its associated cuts and, above all, how these will affect the agricultural sector, because the top goal at the end of the day must be that we create clarity and planning for Austrian farmers. However, a strategy of the Federal Government is currently not recognizable. On the contrary! In recent months, our agriculture minister has been involved in contradictions. In February 2018, she said that in the event of a reduction in the EU agricultural budget, the Republic would jump in for domestic farmers. At the time, it announced and estimated the possible costs of between EUR 10 and 14 billion, i.e. as well as previously discussed. - That's okay. [[Abg. Lightenness: This is also Gold Plating!]] Upper Austrian media has then said – and very little later – that large payments are to be reduced and smaller funding remains the same. She expressed her support for a capping, and for the fact that no farm should receive more than EUR 100 000 a year from EU funding. With regard to the Brexit costs, it was not so sure anymore. She then said it's kind of hard to figure out at the moment. - Aha! At the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, it said that it would be possible to maintain the level of support by means of efficiency measures and less dual-tracking without the Republic having to intervene for farmers. - Really? And on NEOS, the answer then came that it was confident that there would not be any cuts in the EU budget for agriculture; once again: No cuts in the EU budget for agriculture! - How now? That doesn't fit in. Our Minister for Agriculture has allowed a completely different statement in four speeches on this subject, and this does not seem to be the case with the Federal Government having a plan in this regard. Another important point I would like to address is the allocation of funding, which in the form of direct payments constitutes around three-quarters of the agricultural budget. As a distribution criterion, the number of hectares is generally changed in Austria. Economists speak of the Matthäus effect: Who has, it will be given! This leads to financial resources going many times to intensive large-scale farms, with all negative effects on climate, soil, biodiversity, quality of food, while the small farmers lock up and fight for survival. It is generally known – and everyone here in the hall who deals with matter – that almost 20 percent of the recipients receive about 80 percent of the funding. Especially for small countries like Austria, this is fatal, because Austria will never be able to compete through mass production or over the price, but it has to score on innovation, on sustainable quality and on regionality. The European Court of Auditors rightly calls for funding to be strictly committed to measurable objectives. In my view, the objective must be to spend public funds on public services serving the common good, and these funds must be measurable. Only in this way can the EU's payments to European agriculture continue to be legitimated. We have clear demands, let me summarize them. Firstly, public funds for services to be evaluated in the interests of the common good. Secondly, a clear view and economic planning for Austrian farmers. And thirdly, Reject approaches towards the renationalisation of the CAP! They bring nothing, only promote protectionism and distort competition. I would like to end positively with what Mr Löger said to the media these days, namely that Brexit will result in us having to put more money into the EU budget. I find this to be most sincere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7579	Before the final speaker, I can warmly welcome the apprentices of the Voest to our gallery. [[General condolences.]] Mrs Zadić is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Abg. Rossmann: Now neither the Federal Chancellor nor the Minister of Europe are present!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: I can't do that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bißmann.]] [[Call: He just went to the cloister]] [[Abg. Rossmann:...the Minister of Europe!]] [[Call the FPÖ:I think Rossmann will report to the Chefordner!]] [[Abg. Noll: Mr Rossmann is the only notable person!]] [[Abg. Lugar: (in the direction of the newly entered Federal Minister Blümel) Na, here he is! Look!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I can give the floor to Mrs Zadić. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7703	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Abg. Rädler: The core was just outside!]] Dear Seers! The government wants to introduce its own German funding classes today. On the other hand, I could imagine calling for math promotion classes for the government, because it is obvious that there are problems in calculating the EU budget. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] The government would like to pay less in the EU pot but at the same time get more out of it. Yes, how do you do, ladies and gentlemen? Can we be magic? [[Deputies Lugar and Neubauer:Yes!]] It will not be possible to pay less and no less, Jean-Claude Juncker has already said. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] In the meantime, however, the fairy tale hour of the government is over. It has come back in reality a little bit and recognizes at least: It won't be like that at no extra cost! Our Minister of Finance has finally admitted this to all of us openly and honestly. We know that we are going to put more money into the EU budget, and that is the reality that has just been kept silent in recent months. The fact that we are going to have a few billion euros less in the EU budget is clear to all of us, has already arrived at all of us. There will be less available in the EU budget for 12 to 14 billion euros per year. Of course, we want more from the EU. The government also wants more from the EU, and rightly: The EU should take care of security. It's supposed to take over external border protection. She should take care of asylum and migration policy. It is intended to promote the integration of South East Europe before other countries such as Russia or Turkey spread their influence. We want a common and strong Europe, which also plays a role in foreign policy, and this requires a common and strong European budget, which also supports these objectives. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Houses: And to whom do you take away the money?]] A few months ago, Commissioner Oettinger predicted that adequate and well-equipped EU external border protection with 100 000 officials and not with ridiculous 10,000, as they are now estimated, would cost 150 billion euros. The Commission has made a very demarcated proposal, a highly speculated proposal with 10,000 officials, but this still costs us 35 billion euros which we need in addition. [[Abg. Hauser: Where is the Austrian budget saved? Where does the money come from? Where are you taking the money?]] There has been an effective external border protection, ladies and gentlemen - and I should like to say that here too - the Commission has been calling for for 20 years, and this demand has been repeatedly rejected. National border protection is not only inefficient, it is also much more expensive. We must therefore commit ourselves to addressing the whole of the European Union seriously. A common asylum and migration policy will also be expensive, and therefore we need extra budgetary resources for it. If, like this government, one wants more from the European Union, but at the same time does not really want to pay much more, then the bill is a simple one: I need to save somewhere to be able to do things to me. And that's exactly the point. Where does the government intend to set up the savings fund? – In the administration, she says, one should save in the system and not among people. However, their account of saving in the administration does not even go out in the first place. Administrative expenditure accounts for 6 percent of the EU budget in the year, estimated at 12 billion euros per year. They have called a sum of 85 billion euros, but we have no idea that this is a total of seven years, and that is 12 billion euros a year. And yesterday in the EU's main committee, Mr Minister, you said that digitization might also save you more. This accounts for up to 1 percent of administrative costs, which is 1 billion euros per year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] If you are facing 1 billion euros a year and 12 billion euros that fall out of Brexit, then this is a terrible disproportionate relationship, and that means we have to pay more. The conflicting statements we repeatedly hear from different ministers mean that the people simply don't know each other anymore. One thing is clear: We need a strong Europe to be prepared for the future. The government's pro-European course must not be just a lip confession. Austria, as one of the most prosperous countries in the EU, should and must take on a pioneering role in a common and strong Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7801	The Federal Minister has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7822	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have tried to make it quite clear what the Austrian attitude, the attitude of the Federal Government on the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework is: We have paid 1 per cent of the economic performance so far, and 1 per cent of us want to pay in the future. That is, I think, quite clear and clear. The students at the gallery, I think, can understand. It was 1 percent before, 1 percent will be afterwards. That's why I want to clear up a little bit with some confusion that have now been donated: Do we want to pay more, less? Will it be more, will it be less? Is something compensated by the Brexit or does everyone have to pay more? First of all: True, we want to pay 1 percent. That was the case in the past, we want to do that in the future. That means, not less, not more, but 1 percent. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Secondly, Of course, 1 percent of 100 is less than 1 percent of 120. By increasing economic performance, the economy has grown, 1 percent today are more than 1 percent seven years ago. That's why 1 percent in absolute numbers can become a little more, of course, that's clear. The third thing is: If the British don't pay any more, then you can decide that either what the British have paid is going to be distributed to the other countries, or you can say what the British have paid, we want less in the budget. We decide for the second way. And yet, due to the increase in economic performance, it will be 1 percent of EU-27 by 10 billion euros per year more. That's why we say that's what we'd do. How high the net contribution at the end of the day is, we can now, at the beginning of negotiations, of course not yet say at the earliest, if not only when it is clear what the return flows are. – So much for the net contribution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Finally, because Mr Rossmann has now produced himself as a pro-European: I think that is totally super, but being pro-European doesn't necessarily mean paying more. To be pro-European means to be in the important decisions, in the important hours for the European project. The Greens were then opposed to Austria's accession to the EU.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7882	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:36:13]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7904	We'll be up to date. European hours on the subject: “A Europe for the people and not for the corporations, Mr. Bundeskanzler!” The following Members of the European Parliament were nominated for participation in the current European hour: for the ÖVP club Dr. Karas, for the SPÖ club Mag. Regner and for NEOS Dr. Mlinar. I should like to welcome Members to the European Parliament quite warmly in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Mr Leichtfried is the first to speak. His time budget is 10 minutes. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e7944	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the televisions! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, you said that the title of the current hour of Europe is: “A Europe for the people and not for the corporations, Mr Bundeskanzler!” – that you like it – he ignores you just as much as we, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties – that you, as Members of Parliament, find it good and defend, I do not understand this access at all. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and list of fungus.]] In addition, Mr. Bundeskanzler had time to run through the Ceta Council of Ministers in the morning. [[Abg. Little: The plane left at 10 o'clock!]] For what you're planning here with Ceta, ladies and gentlemen, there are two words: Betrayal and ignorance, double treason, ladies and gentlemen: [[Cheerfulness at ÖVP and FPÖ]] Betrayal to the electorate of this coalition, betrayal to the electorate above all of the FPÖ and betrayal of the democratic rule of law, ladies and gentlemen; and ignorance of a procedure which is currently under way at the European Court of Justice and which is actually to be expected, ignorance of a procedure running at the Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe, and ignorance – and that is the most important thing to me – of the fact that the core of this agreement, namely the investor-state dispute settlement clauses, ISDS, the secret tribunals, is being negotiated. [[Consistency with SPÖ and list of fungus]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schimanek and Mr Stefan]] [[Abg. Kassinger: Who signed it?]] [[Abg. Rosary: What about core?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hauser and Mr Rädler]] [[ongoing calls to the FPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] And it was always the SPÖ's access, as long as this is not gone, we would never have agreed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Since when is Maschek recorded live?]] The Federal Chancellor, your Federal Chancellor, has come up with the motto of time for new things. [[towards ÖVP]] What you're doing now is not just retro, ladies and gentlemen, it's time for archaics who have overtaken themselves. [[Abg. Gudenus: The Retro Party SPÖ!]] That's how it looks! Do not support an old system, the abuse of law, which promotes the erodement of the democratic principle, the erodement of the rule of law! [[Call at the FPÖ: Social democracy has overtaken itself!]] Why do I see it that way? [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Abg. Rosary:... the glasses have not been cleaned!]] What was, ladies and gentlemen, the original Meaning of this ISDS? Now listen, then learn something! [[Abg. Schimanek: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] This was an institution that favoured investors who invested in legally insecure countries. Both have benefited from this: investors because they were better protected, and the countries that received investment. [[Abg. Rosary: So you don't give me a lecture on international law, don't you! For this you are too weak...!]] – Mr Rosenkranz, don’t keep talking about it, you will come to it sometime! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But this system has developed into something, ladies and gentlemen, which is massively opposed. What happened to it? – Highly paid lawyers decide in secret tribunals on actions by corporations. [[Abg. Rosary: No!]] [[Abg. Little:... this has changed!]] And what happened? – Philip Morris, for example, complains against non-smoking protection in Australia. Yes, this is funny for you, against non-smoker protection, but not for democrats, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Julius Meinl, the Meinl Bank sues Austria because Mr. Meinl is being prosecuted. What does that mean? [[Abg. tiny: How did it go out?]] – You have lost, but 100 000 euros of legal costs each month the Republic has paid, Mrs Colleague; that is not nothing, is it? [[Abg. Tiny: Look at the request!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] These are the clauses. These tribunals enable companies operating around the world to pre-influence democratic legislation, these groups will allow them to challenge existing laws against private tribunals, and that is not only democratically worrying, it is also unfair because of the citizens, the citizen with us in Austria does not have this possibility. [[Call the ÖVP: You did this in Brussels...!]] [[Abg. Little: It's not true at all!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] What should a nursing pensioner do if he no longer finds a nurse, because the indexing of the family allowance means fewer nurses come to us? – He can't go anywhere! What is to be done by a young family who does not want to go through smoking swabs every time she goes to the inn? - She can't do anything! What can be done by the 55-year-old who, due to the disappearance of the 20 000 action, no longer has a job and who does not want to work 12 hours a day, 60 hours a week? – He can go to the Salt Office, ladies and gentlemen, and nowhere else! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Abg. Stefan: Go to the election! He can choose! ... State of law!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] And that's why it's unfair! [[Abg. New builder: 400,000 unemployed... leave behind! A shame!]] That the old man who needs care that the young family that the older unemployed of the ÖVP don't care, we know, ladies and gentlemen, but what about the FPÖ? [[Abg. Stefan: I didn't know that you can't choose anymore!]] What about the FPÖ? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Here, look at "Because it's about Austria: [[Keeping a panel in height, on which Heinz-Christian Street is to be seen and which contains the text quoted below]] Binding referendum” – I mean: “Committal referendum”; a referendum is binding, but that’s your business – “to Ceta and TTIP”. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with SPÖ, as well as congratulations to members of the Pilz List]] FPÖ, what about you?- Oh, my God! Tell me what's wrong with you guys?- Oh, my God! Mr Strache, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Gudenus! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Now look into the computer and you don't mind anything, but nothing at all! [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Nehammer and Stefan.]] I ask you about the FPÖ now: If you can still look your voters in the face with good conscience – I am now talking to the FPÖ – you can look at the person who is in the [[Abg. Gudenus: Nation's salmon number!]] Get up early and have to work hard, look in the face? [[Abg. Wheelers:... alcohol in the game!]] Skill You look yourself in the mirror in the morning? – No, you can’t have good conscience, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] [[Abg. Haider: Did they give you today the big tablets?]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] By the way - - I have now spoken to the FPÖ, my colleague! [[Abg. Wheeler: Strolz copy!]] [[Abg. Nehammer: This can be better!]] [[Abg. Höbart: This is a show today!]] By taking this decision -
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e8444	The honourable Member is on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e8494	_Indem You follow this decision of the Federal Government as the lambs on the battlebench, you, ladies and gentlemen, will be the traitor, the traitor to your voters, to your voters and to our democracy! Thank you very much. [[Call:Well, wait now.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Even that will be done!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e8542	The Federal Minister for European Union, Art, Culture and the Media has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e8564	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Dear spectators on the gallery and at home! I believe that the subject of this current European hour is at least an occasion to discuss a possible future of the European Union. To think and discuss the European Union, and that is how it should be understood. For my generation, the common European project, the European Union, as well as for almost everyone in the gallery, is a normality. We don't know anything else. When I finished the Matura, the euro was introduced shortly after, I went through an interrail across a boundless Europe, I was allowed to participate in the Erasmus programme, and for me, the European Union, Europe is as much home as a federal country in Austria. I was probably more often in Brussels than in Vorarlberg – nothing against Vorarlberg – even before my time as Minister of State. It has become a matter of course for all of us, and this self-evident nature has been dissolved in a shocking way on the day when Britain decided to leave the European Union – which has appeared impossible because we have all said that this peace project, which has brought prosperity to all of us, is so good. All of a sudden, a country has decided to leave the European Union. That was a shock for me personally, for many, and even those who are skeptical of this common Europe have said: Yeah, we didn't want that! The Brexit has shown impressively what happens when populism becomes reality, ladies and gentlemen, and what populism is, Mr Leichtfried has now brought us impressively to the fore – and from that we should learn not to go in this direction! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The current hour of Europe is a good reason to consider how we are going into a right future for the European Union, and we should learn from this shock of Brexit. We shouldn't just say, That's what happened now, let's continue as before. No, on the contrary: We should consider exactly what were the reasons that led to this withdrawal of the United Kingdom. It's quite obvious: These were fears of the people in Great Britain regarding migration, about loss of prosperity, the subjective security feelings were bad. You can simply say now that the facts are against it and that it is not the case at all, but it is the wrong way not to take the fears of the population seriously; it is the wrong way to do so, as if everything were not right anyway, as if it were diffuse and subjective. Whoever does not take the fears of the people seriously, this Europe is really at risk, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] That is why we need to learn from it, and that is why we have to comply with what we always say: that Europe needs to grow on important issues, that have to solve major problems and that it should be less concerned about smaller things. But if there is a big problem to solve, we must also deliver. This was one of the major problems during the migration crisis: There was a big problem, and the European Union has not solved it. That was something like a fall of sin, and we must work to ensure that something like that never happens again, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] For this very reason, the Austrian Federal Government has made the motto “A Europe That Protects” for the Presidency and has set out three priorities through which we want to make a significant contribution to the future of the European Union: protection against illegal migration; Protection of prosperity by deepening the internal market and strengthening competitiveness; and protection through stability in the neighbourhood. These are the three priorities that will be our answer, which will be the German Government's answer to Europe's skepticism. We are therefore in a gold-right position, because the protection of the external borders is now in all its mouths. We want to push this forward during our Presidency, we want to fight illegal tow, together in a Europe. In this way, we can ensure that this subject complex is addressed effectively. The second part: Protection of prosperity; competitiveness must be strengthened, which also means a fair play for all market participants. So it cannot be that digital large companies push themselves to pay taxes. On the contrary! They must have exactly the same conditions as any small and medium-sized enterprises, any family company that pays their taxes in good faith; even Google and Facebook must pay their taxes. We want to deepen the internal market in order to strengthen competitiveness. This also brings something to every individual citizen, every single citizen. Just one example: If you use streaming platforms – I don't know, Netflix or whatever – in Austria, look at a series, like “Game of Thrones”, and drive to another European country, and notice that the series doesn’t exist at once, then ask yourself: Why can't I just log in normal? – This is the case because there is no single market yet. If we ensure that, these problems will also belong to the past. We also want to promote added value through European Union funding, which is why more money is needed for farmed family farms, and not for large corporations that do not need it for survival. This is the added value that we also think, when we say, wealth belongs protected. The third area: Protection through stability in our immediate neighborhood; that is, we want to maintain a perspective for the Western Balkans. We want to see all countries in south-eastern Europe being part of the European Union at some point, because we can decide whether we want to export security and stability or import instability. We want to go the first way, and that is why we say that there needs to be a clear prospect of accession for all states in the Western Balkans, since we want to move forward significantly during our Presidency. I am glad that the Commission's reports on State progress were very, very positive. We hope that we can open new negotiating chapters with Serbia and Montenegro. We hope that during our Presidency we can open the accession talks with Albania and Macedonia. This means that we are exporting stability, and everything that is good for the Balkans is good for Europe as well. Finally: Subsidiarity, an essential aspect which is being pursued by all the Austrian Presidencys of the Council; we also want to put our own emphasis on it. Summary: The Austrian Presidency gives the right answers to the questions raised by the population, and that is exactly how we will bring Europe into a good future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e8655	Mrs Minzig is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e8676	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, I am pleased that the SPÖ has chosen the title “A Europe for People” and therefore implements the advice of its comrade Voves, who has been Medial to her on the weekend, the SPÖ be a “well-feeling party of the officials” and with the needs of the people they have nothing to do with it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] It's different with us at the ÖVP: We are on the ground of reality, and this also shows that we are by far the most mayors in Austria. Above all, it is important that people in Austria and the European Union have a sustainable and dignified work, whether in an SME or in an international group. And you hardly believe it, even in corporations, people work and not monsters. Perhaps Mr. Kern has made bad experiences, but I know many international corporations – we have the Voest today – in which very responsible employees work at all levels; the standard group bashing of SPÖ is pretty much on my mind. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This discredits the employees working in these companies. Everyone in Austria knows that Mr. Kern is looking for a group chair; also the RHI and the Strabag are international corporations. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Haider.]] The central question is how we secure and create jobs in the European Union and in Austria, and the conditions in the world around us are constantly changing. Who thought three years ago, under President Obama, that trade walls were being raised, who thought that Britain would leave the European Union at the time? We do it by actively shaping globalisation, and we have made the agreement with Canada for the benefit of many people. I know it's hard on the left now. Ceta has been in the provisional application for eight months, and the world-wide prophecies have not occurred: Our food and environmental standards have not been adversely affected, the regulatory sovereignty of the states, but also the general provision of public services is not at risk, nor have workers' rights been undermined. On the contrary: Canada has ratified the eight ILO Conventions. Thanks to the commitment of our former vice chancellor and Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner, we have also regulated investment protection very well. Ceta establishes a dispute resolution mechanism with a judicial system with two instances and high transparency criteria. The basic condition for bringing an action is the illegality and the actual damage. In order to repeal State measures such as judgments, decisions, regulations and laws, a judgment of the Investment Court cannot be passed, and the 15 judges are independent, have high qualification requirements and are subject to strict incompatibilities rules. Yes, Mr Kern, I have to be right because you said that Ceta was the best agreement the EU has ever negotiated. However, I also have to give the right to the Director-General of Voestalpine and other head of the Group, who have said that international corporations do not necessarily need Ceta, they see the great opportunity for the medium-sized economy – and we also know this: Magna, Bombardier already created 20 000 jobs in Austria before Ceta. I am very pleased, however, that what I have been preaching here for years, namely that small and medium-sized enterprises benefit. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] From the winegrower from Lower Austria with three employees and the cheese producers from Tyrol with ten employees to the fruit and vegetable processing company in Burgenland, many small and medium-sized enterprises have taken the opportunity to build successful business relations with Canada – the food sales in Canada increased by 42 percent – but not only companies in the food industry, also Praher Plastics or Holz Steiner from Tyrol are successfully on the Canadian market. There are very, very many examples. We know that our prosperity and our social systems depend heavily on the export efforts of our entrepreneurs, and therefore I do not understand the zigzag course of Klubobmann Kern. – No matter what, I don’t have to understand it, because our success course in Canada will continue as a result of this trade agreement, for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises and for the benefit of the employees in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e8767	Mr Wolfgang Katzian is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e8791	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Blümel, you said, let us talk about the future of the EU! – I think this is a good opportunity to do this today – and you have described from your personal situation how you have experienced it or how you have grown up practically with the European Union. In 1994 I ran as a trade unionist in the run-up to the referendum and was very committed to the success of Austria's accession to the European Union – first because I was convinced and still convinced that the European Union is the most important peace project on this continent; secondly, because I wanted to strengthen and commit myself to the European Economic Union becoming a European Union, which places social standards and social policies at the centre, and we have always said that we are fighting for a social Europe; and thirdly, because I did not want my son – he was 11 years old – to grow up in an environment of dubious nationalism, but in a secular Austria and in a Europe of solidarity. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] That was what drove me when I spoke for accession to the European Union at the time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You say that you want to make a major contribution to a Europe that protects it within the framework of the Austrian Presidency; You've repeated this now too. I think we will measure you by your actions, and I would like to mention some of the priorities that are relevant from my point of view to a Europe that protects it. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] When it comes to protection, not only can we talk about the external borders and the question of migration – that is all right – but we also need to talk about people, about how people are and what framework conditions workers in Europe find. I am therefore in favour of a Europe that does not adopt itself with the argument of subsidiarity and the alleged lack of need for strong social security provisions from social policy. To what is currently being listed on the topic of Gold Plating: It is claimed that there are great social standards in Europe and that the Austrian Parliament has obviously been so stupid to pass laws that are superfluous and superfluous that go far beyond those rules that exist in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! What is it really about the so-called standards in the European Union? . Especially in the last ten years there have been many provisions in Europe, which are minimum provisions, because the accession of many countries from Eastern Europe in particular has added countries in which there have been no standards in many areas. Therefore, it has been said at EU level that a minimum basis cannot be undermined – in favour of people there, but also because one did not want distorted competition. That was the background. It is therefore perfectly clear that there are these minimum standards. But to turn this around and claim that these minimum standards are the level and everything else is a gilding, is an increase of workers, consumers and all those who are concerned with the proper conditions for their activities. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] We want a powerful employment protection authority that is able to combat wage and social dumping across borders – this is also something I expect the Austrian Federal Government to work to ensure that it is implemented. We want a Europe that understands digitalisation not only in terms of technology and economics, but also in terms of good working conditions, good income and protection against increasingly precarious forms of employment. And, Mr Blümel, ladies and gentlemen, we want a Europe that understands Brexit as an opportunity, as an opportunity for a political change in course in Europe. We want a Europe that ensures that no new dumping race with the UK takes place on lower social and tax standards. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We expect steps towards a Europe that effectively protects its citizens from the ruinous effects of tax dumping, tax fraud and tax evasion. Mrs. Minzig, we are not doing a corporate bashing because we know how important the companies are, because we know how important the jobs there are in the companies. [[Abg. Little: No!]] But one thing is clear: If you wink Ceta today and thus create special claims rights for corporations when you comply with the wishes of the corporations by saying that everything that is about it is gold plating, then you become the vassals of those who actually intend nothing else than to make policy on the back of the workers. [[Abg. Little: Read it once!]] [[Abg. Little: Read it through!]] I'm sure we can't do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e8885	Mr Mag. Roman Haidergelangt as the next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e8910	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear students at the gallery who visit us today very many! When the SPÖ talks about “A Europe for People and Not for Companies”, I really only realize that the former chancellor Viktor Klima von der SPÖ left them after his grand failure in Austrian politics and led the Argentinian branch of the VW Group from October 2000 to November 2011. From 2006 to 2012 he was also a member of the Group's Executive Board for South America as well as the Agent General of Volkswagen AG – but this is not in Europe, which obviously does not count for the SPÖ. [[Calls of the Abg. Schimanek.]] The SPÖ is in fact concerned with the issue of corporations only the question of how to provide failed officials. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] I'm not taking anything else from you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Leichtfried, on this played disarmament to Ceta, you know, the Blessed Robert Hochner has once said that the revenge of journalists on the politicians is the archive. [[Call the SPÖ: What about Ceta now?]] [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] I have looked around a little bit in the Parliament archive and read something to you now, Mr Leichtfried. Too bad Klubobmann Kern isn't in the hall right now, but Klubobmann Schieder is here – both are still there. “I must say, of course, that this agreement – and indeed the EU Commission must be praised – is probably the best trade agreement the EU has ever concluded.” [[Call the FPÖ:Bravo!]] - Do you know who said that? – The former Chancellor Kern said that! This is what your clubman said: “the best trade agreement [...] the EU has ever concluded”. [[Abg. Wittmann: What is that supposed to mean?]] Do you know when he said that? – In October 2016. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] So he said this at a time when all the poison teeth – every single poison tooth that this agreement had at the time – were included in the agreement. At that time, it was really about any arbitration courts on which one has no influence. There was really the talk of special rights for corporations, the sale of drinking water, the end of social and health care, the end of jurisdiction and our sovereignty and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] At the time when all this was still standing inside and nothing had changed as it was now, your Federal Chancellor was the SPÖ for this trade agreement. At that time, German Chancellors signed the core of this trade agreement, so that first of all they could get on the road and actually ratify it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Gudenus: Listen, hear!]] Mr Schieder then defended this in a committee meeting here in Parliament – and I do not want to abstain from this quote from the archive either: “Bundeskanzler Christian Kern repeated his reasons for the final consent of SPÖ to sign CETA and was fully supported by SPÖ-Klubobmann Andreas Schieder.” – Protocol of the main committee of 19 May 1990 ==References== At that time you were still quite delighted by Ceta, when all the poison teeth were inside, Mr. Arbitrator! [[Abg. Arrestor: such a fool!]] You can't talk out of it. Right at the time when all these accusations, all these poison teeth were still inside, you were fully for Ceta! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] And now, all of a sudden and from bright sky, now that all the poison teeth have really been pulled, the entire SPÖ and colleague core are at once against Ceta. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Is that really what you're serious about? Do you really think anyone's taking this seriously? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] How simple do you think people? [[Abg. Gudenus: Gargamel policy!]] This change from Saul to Paul is unbelievable, which may take place in the Bible, but this is simply unbelievable and cheapest polemic. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9095	The next member of the European Parliament is Dr.in Angelika Mlinar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9116	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! The title of today’s European hour “A Europe for People and Not for Companies” is a picture that needs to be corrected in a number of ways. Companies are globally active companies and not necessarily something bad, as Mr Katzian has already correctly noted – I am particularly pleased that this has come from this corner. However, I would like to address developments and dangers to liberal democracies in this context. Following the title, the European Union is not the problem but rather a solution if we use the opportunities of the common Europe to do so. I would also like to continue to carry this out. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Our common Europe is also and above all one of human rights and peaceful living together. This is something that I doubt and must be underlined. However, it is simply not right to oppose economic integration. So what are we talking about when we call Europe a Europe of corporations? – Multinational corporations are global actors. This means that in a globalised world, the classical role allocation between the economy and politics simply does not apply anymore. These companies are not subject to centrally defined policy frameworks, rather they can choose from alternative legal systems and decide on an economic basis to eliminate the primacy of policy. [[Abg. Neubauer:... the hazelsteiner already said?- Oh, my God!]] At the same time, international organisations such as the United Nations or the International Labour Organisation are no longer able to enforce the agreed rules. Against this background, however, the question of the responsibility of these companies themselves must be asked. Groupes must no longer be limited solely to their economic role, but must participate as responsible political actors in the development of the legal framework in which they move. But they must be stopped to do so. The European Union has a unique position in the world, for it is the largest economic market and can thus also play a global role in dealing with these multinational companies. European Multis and the European Union have the opportunity to show what benefits global companies can have if they take on responsibility and play fair. They can also act on the side of politics as intermediaries of the so-called Western-Democratic standards. Let me give you an example: In the 1990s, American sports goods manufacturer Nike threatened to deduct its production from Bangladesh because the workers worked under the most terrible conditions. Nike put pressure on the government for so long until it significantly improved the labour laws. Of course, such a power is also extremely critical, but in this case it has been used positively on the side of politics. It is a fact that global corporations have enormous power – and this without any democratic legitimacy. Through their networks and, last but not least, with their monetary power, they create access to governments and pursue their goals – sometimes beyond political and regulatory frameworks. As the example has shown, the power of the corporations can also be controlled positively in a globalized world. That is exactly where the European Union can act as a powerful political player when it sees itself in mind. We also consider the digital tax for IT giants important and right to create a level playing field. However, this is still too short, and there is also a need for a clear international rule for the taxation of profits of corporations, best at G20 level. Liberal EU Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager is a passionate fighter for the open market and competition, because anti-market and monopolistic behaviour distorts the market and harms consumers. Their mission is also to prepare the ground for European companies in such a way that they can exist in global competition, but also to find a role that goes beyond their purely entrepreneurial activities. In my opinion, the European Union has the unique opportunity to set standards on which the multis are oriented, while at the same time taking on social responsibility. As the European Union, we are called on to achieve a balance in the sense of a democratic partnership and understanding, and this also goes deep into the field of human rights, to the point of equality between men and women. As we all know, the single market is at the heart of the European Union. Especially in global competition, it must be the EU's concern to remain internationally competitive, ensuring jobs and creating new ones. With renationalisation considerations or local autarchies, we do not create a binding regulatory framework for global corporations. We must think more and more: international cooperation and fair free trade agreements to create an area for competition on the one hand and high standards for consumers on the other. I'm deeply convinced of that. – Hvala lepa!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9159	Next, Mr Magistrate. Bruno Rossmannzu word reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9183	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Löger! Minister Blümel! Mr Blümel said that the Greens have taken a pro-European attitude since 1995 since accession to the EU. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Apparently, you have slept 22 years – that is, a large part of your life. [[Interference of Federal Minister Blümel.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gudenus.]] They have said, Minister Blümel – well, it is likely – that Google and Facebook should pay their taxes. [[Abg. Little: He didn't say that!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. New builders: They failed with the greens!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Strasser]] – I say: But you don't. The fact that we can observe is that the little ones pay, with which they allied to the welfare state, and the great ones judge it. Let's just take a simple example, a bookstore in Graz or Klagenfurt. Of course, it pays its taxes. But does Amazon pay taxes in Austria? – Sales tax yes, but no corporate tax. And you from the ÖVP, especially the Finance Ministers from the ÖVP, starting with Grasser to Minister Schelling – you, Mr. Löger, let me say outside, you are still in office – have a welcome culture for tax refugees. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] You can now use the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, to reverse this welcome culture. They can use the hour's favor to launch a policy in Europe that will result in not only the small ones, but in particular the big taxes. Tax justice is announced! So your job would be – and I say this to Mr Bundeskanzler, who is not present – to finally take care of the closure of the tax routes. That was supposed to be a big concern to him. But now on the topic of number one of today's day: There is a Council of Ministers decision to whip the Ceta agreement through this House in the coming weeks. I may begin with a quote from Mr. Vice-Chancellor Strache of 20.9.2017. At that time, he promised in plenary that you would “after 15. October, of course, vehemently for this binding referendum” – it says again – “to CETA, TTIP, but also to future other free trade agreements [...]!” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek]] And then he says that both agreements are classic products of predator capitalism, whereby he turned to the then chancellor core that he likes to change with them. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, with today's Council of Ministers decision and with the forthcoming decision in plenary, you have shown a special class crasher. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] If you, Mr Rosenkranz – he is not in the hall, he does not even listen to the debate – today in the “Morgenjournal” the listeners wanted to convince them that this agreement is something else and that the poison teeth have been drawn, then I can only answer you: [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Singer: That's right!]] What an error! [[Abg. Haider: Read it!]] With this agreement, Mr Haider – you can divert a thousand more times with accusations towards SPÖ – you have fallen by the way! [[Abg. Haider: Read it!]] They now want to ratify an agreement that essentially contains the same poison teeth as last year. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] You are the ones who ignore the many signatures of popular desire to Ceta, TTIP and Tisa, although you have called for a referendum. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary]] If I remember correctly, it was even your vice chancellor who signed this – but that's all meated today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] Today, it is simply a question of making a policy in favour of the big corporations against the interests of the small ones you have betrayed – by the way, not the first time – but a policy in favour of the large corporations, although surveys show that 75 percent of all Austrians are against the ratification of this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, but also ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, take people's concerns seriously! Don't go over people with the ratification of an agreement that nobody wants! Watch the interests of the people and do not operate exclusively politics for large corporations! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9351	The next member of the European Parliament is Dr. Othmar Karas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9372	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Much is combined today: the global challenges, the budget, the fight against tax relief, the question of tax avoidance also by corporations. These are questions that call for a serious debate, issues that urgently need political frameworks, political decisions, questions that concern people who, in turn, raise questions and which we need to discuss seriously. To this serious discussion, I also believe that we clearly acknowledge the need to regulate globalisation and want us to need an economic and social order globally, that we want to advocate the fight against Trump’s protectionism, but that we also want to enforce our right, our values, our standards. Trade agreements are at the hour our only instrument to enforce our right, our values, our standards globally. For me, therefore, it is not a question of whether we need trade agreements, but of who we conclude them with. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and Neos.]] One of the most sincere debates for me – despite all the differences – is that we said that we were successful, because the Ceta Trade Agreement is a mixed agreement, it is a success of the last German government and also a success of this Parliament. In the Ceta Trade Agreement, our standards have been enforced, so it has been in force for eight months. What is still open is not what was proposed. There are no private arbitration courts, there is no parallel jurisdiction. There are official dishes, no parallel structure. Judges from both continents work together. There is no international agreement without investor protection and without arbitration in order to deal with rapid procedures when problems arise. Let us say that we have been successful that this Parliament has also been successful, that the European Parliament and the national Parliament have jointly implemented some changes that have only been achieved by the involvement of NGOs, by public debate and by parliamentaryisation. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and NEOS.]] Secondly, in the previous debate, it has already been said, also on the budget question, and this is also happening to me to the groups and to the people, I would like to say: It's pretended to be negotiating with a counter. EU and Austria are not opposites, EU and Austria are interdependent. We are a co-responsible part of the European Union. We are negotiating between the institutions of the European Union, which does not mean: Austria against the European Union. We also do not play out groups and people against each other, nor do we play Austria and Europe against each other. But we have much to improve, that is beyond dispute. I would remind you, however, that in Austria we have created 245,000 new jobs through the internal market through competitive companies, through a competitive industry. I would also like to say to the European Parliament: Yes, it is unacceptable that multinational corporations pay less than 1 percent of taxes, while small domestic companies pay at least 25 percent of corporate taxes. [[Complementary of the Abg. Yılmaz.]] That is why we in the European Parliament have concluded numerous tax transparency agreements with third countries, a black list of tax havens decided to set up special and investigation committees. We have put the money laundering directive on the table, and there are four more things on the table that we hope to conclude during the Austrian Presidency, namely: greater fairness through harmonised tax bases; a digital tax which can also go into the European budget as own to meet the new challenges; greater transparency through public country reporting; stronger internal market by creating an EU value added tax framework so that we can reduce the EUR 40 billion in VAT fraud. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] We have a lot to do together. We have already achieved a lot, and what is to be done is on the table – let's do it together!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9438	The Member of the European Parliament, Mag.a Evelyn Regner, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9497	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen National Councils and spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! Ceta is on the agenda again, and yes, Ceta is the best trade agreement ever concluded, but it is not good enough, and that is also the reason why we voted against Ceta by SPÖ Members of the European Parliament. [[Oje-Rufe at the FPÖ]] The question of group members needs to be dealt with sufficiently. Social democracy has clear principles for this. We are for fair trade! And whether it is about strengthening worker or environmental standards or about respect for the legal process as it is now: Ceta is not responsible today by the Council of Ministers, without any need and while we are still waiting for the decision of the European Court of Justice, it is symptomatic of the political understanding of this government. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] We in the SPÖ stand for another policy, for a Europe for people and not for the big corporations, for a policy in the interests of those who have elected their representatives, for the people who make up a state, for the people who have no market and no internal market at all. We in politics have the choice, we can be elected, corporations cannot be selected, but their actions are highly political. The policy, we all have, as it seems to be, to be less and less involved, and this development I oppose with all my strength. We must take the issue of action back into our hands. We must finally ensure that property is not only entitled, but that property is also obliged. We need clear rules, their enforcement and control in order to bind corporations and at the same time protect and strengthen the weaker. In any event, the corporations can decide what they want, they generally choose the legal order. The management and the operations are in Austria, letter boxes are in Panama, the workers in these groups come from Eastern Europe, and the taxes are paid in the Netherlands or Ireland. That is to say, corporations are using this flicking carpet in national legal systems, because there is a lack of common European rules in this regard. I'm not going to point my finger at the companies now, but I'm talking about fairness. It is not fair when women in trade pay 10 percent wage tax, but Facebook but exactly 0 percent. It is not fair when the Voest pays 25 percent corporate tax and Google 0.27 percent. Something needs to change, nationally and Europeanally! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But if you do it like the short/street government, then you make politics that has been bought with huge constituencies. There would be an infinite amount of work to be done. It is not enough to stand before the EU flag, Mr. D. Chancellor, who is absent, and to smile! Once it comes to rules for corporations, this short/street government is blocking. It cannot continue to clean up the evil EU, because it is very much on the table. The Commission has also learned and put forward proposals on the basis of great pressure, especially on social democracy. There is now a whole lattice on the table in front of the Presidency: Europe-wide collective complaints; the protection of Whistleblowers, that is to say, the pointers that are so valuable to learn what actions are taking place in corporations; the taxation of digital groups Facebook, Google and Co; the EU-wide corporate tax; the public corporate tax declaration. I should like to add a few words about what is on the table, which is important across Europe and which now have to be dealt with and dealt with, which I expect from the Austrian Presidency. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Europe – and that is important to me – will be social or it will not be! . I say that again and again, because that is not an empty floscle, it is a mission to the government, a mission to all of us in the European Parliament, to you as national councils. Our goal is clear: We do not want a Gruseleuropa à la Orbán, not a narrow-track variant of the short-term/street government, we want a social Europe, a Europe that attracts people and offers a security network, a Europe to fall in love with.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9575	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9596	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, colleague Roman Haider has clearly presented to you the attitude the SPÖ still had about Ceta half a year ago. You and your Federal Chancellor Core agreed to this agreement when all the inconsistencies were still contained in it. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is wrong!]] We liberals admit that we still had a position against Ceta half a year ago, but now the situation has changed dramatically. In the meantime, we are in a coalition government and we are in favour of the agreements we have reached in this coalition, and now Ceta has become different. In the meantime, this trade agreement has drawn those poison teeth that you didn't care about. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is quite clear on the table that in the food sector, European standards are preserved. It is clear on the table that the arbitration has been properly regulated. It is now clear on the table that all areas of general care and drinking water will not be affected by this trade agreement. That is why it is relatively easy for us to agree to this agreement now in this edition. This, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly the difference from policy: This Federal Government is making a united and closed European and foreign policy. You never did that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Her Federal Chancellor Faymann drove to Berlin to find out what his opinion was. Your Federal Chancellor Core – I do not want to be unfair, he was too short in office – has not been able to outline any recognizable foreign and European policy at all. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You only do chaos in truth!]] This is different now, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The members of the Austrian Federal Government drive there to represent Austrian interests. We see this in many areas, we see this also in the areas of Foreign Minister Kneissel, also Federal Minister Blümel, also Mr Bundeskanzler Kurz, on all important points concerning the European Union. This is not only about the relationship between the European Union and Russia and the United States, but also about the efforts of the Republic to make a contribution to the peaceful resolution of the Middle East conflicts, especially in Iraq, and all these conflicts that exist, but also about the fact that the Austrian Presidency will make a fanatic to the renewal of the Union. Federal Minister Blümel has already outlined the priorities we are represented. The aim will be to link the European Union to security, to the fight against illegal immigration, to safeguard the external border, to ward off instability in the European Union's neighbourhood areas and also to preserve prosperity. The preservation of prosperity – the Minister has explained it correctly – can only be forced and achieved through economic promotion, not only by promoting the groups, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, but also by promoting the small and medium-sized economy, which is so important for Austria in particular. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is the only way we can create a social Europe, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, and not the cloud-cuckoo shelters you are drawing here, which are not feasible! This federal government, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore on the right track in European and foreign policy. Minister of the Interior Kickl is concerned that Schengen will again be a feasible agreement. It is not only concerned that, if necessary, the borders are secured within Europe, but also that the external border is clearly secured. [[Please contact FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mario Kunasek takes care of a strong federal army, which is available if the Austrian Federal Government needs support in implementing all these areas concerning the security of the Republic and the security of the European Union. And the Federal Chancellor is in the right place today, in Bulgaria, which is a good example of how to secure the EU's external borders. The findings he will bring to our Presidency are very welcome. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9682	Next speaker: Mrs Claudia Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9704	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't really know what I'm doing anymore. This matter with the positioning of the FPÖ in terms of free trade or quite specifically to Ceta, the discussion about it, that is something the FPÖ will have to endure in the next few weeks, if it is clearly shown that it is not 100% coherent as you have come to your new opinion. [[Abg. Gudenus: Our voters decide!]] That is what you are saying now that it is resolved – where I agree with you, there are some points that have been resolved at Ceta; this is the best agreement that the European Union has reached with any country, which is also evident in connection with South Korea and Japan – but all the points that have already been read in black and white before the national elections, when you have said that is absolutely - - - yes, indeed! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Rosary: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Rosary: Just not!]] Let us, however, come to the point of Europe of the Group. This is a sentence, a phrase with which you can make excellent populist politics. This is a prejudicial phrase that is repeated for so long until people are given a view of the many opportunities that the European Union offers. By the way, that is exactly what Mr Klubobmann Schieder, who is now unfortunately absent, said about one and a half hours ago – okay, there behind you, Mr Klubobmann Schieder – that is, ÖVP and FPÖ would do anti-European propaganda. [[Abg. Plessl points in the direction of the Abg between the rows of seats. Arbitrary]] I even agree with you, but that is exactly the same – the formulation of the Group's Europe falls exactly in the same category of anti-European propaganda. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] This is an enemy image that has no foot in reality, it is an enemy image, to which right and left have met again and again in the past exactly in the middle and suddenly agreed. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is wrong!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Wrong!]] The very opposite is the case, and I would like to add a few points to prove this. The free movement of persons and goods offers, above all, unexpected benefits to EU citizens, and freedom of establishment enables many new professional and also private perspectives. The EU is very likely to restrict the Group. Competition law provides the Commission with an arsenal of possibilities to penalise anti-market and abusive behaviour as well. Whether global companies have to pay taxes is, above all, a question that individual finance ministers have to ask and answer. The EU also acts as a competitive guardian. By far, the EU Commission has inundated Google with the highest fine ever imposed on a single company, namely, EUR 2.42 billion. Microsoft was imposed a fine of almost EUR 900 million in 2008 because it required too high a licence fee for technical information; the US company has already received sanctions in the past, a total of EUR 1.7 billion. I'd say that's not nothing. This would be unthinkable without the EU, it would not exist without the European Union, and that is not necessarily something for the Group, but for the people. The fact that a larger single market, of course, also offers economics of Scale, is one thing, but for consumers, in turn, it means cheaper prices, because customs duties are lost, but of course also because product standards have been unified. In particular, the EU has given small and medium-sized enterprises opportunities for entry into a market that has not been possible before and which would never have become possible without the European Union, which is particularly positive for Austrian entrepreneurs. And the EU also acts as a very strong negotiator in global multilateral trade agreements. We can achieve success when it comes to implementing European standards, something that individual countries would never have been able to achieve, for which they would never have had the opportunity. If you look at what trade agreements Austria has concluded in the past, it is noted that the new trade agreements of the European Union with South Korea, with Japan, with Canada are of a completely different quality. And that's a positive thing, since you've got to give FPÖ an exceptional right, but in this case, the new reality is nothing bad. Mr Karas' statements on the black list, on the money laundering directive, on the control committees in the European Parliament are also evidence that the Union is working for people. In contrast to the previous debate, this is also a point in which truly anti-European propaganda is made, which really makes the image of the European Union unfair among citizens. This is something that is dangerous to fire, and at least one hour ago the SPÖ agreed that such things are dangerous to fire. That is why I would like to point out once again that it is exactly the same on this point, but we will be discussing the subject again at 3 p.m. in the context of the urgent request. I am pleased that we can then deal more closely with the issue of Ceta, and I would be interested in the argumentation of the FPÖ once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9817	I would like to warmly welcome the ladies and gentlemen of the Pensionist Group from Matrei at the gallery to us here in Parliament. Say hello to God! [[General condolences.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Kolba. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9848	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, especially the visitors to the gallery and those who watch us in front of the television screens! “A Europe for people and not for corporations” – a beautiful sentence that does not sound like bells, but I fear that this federal government will reverse this sentence and will also take a position at the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, where it will prove to be a government for the groups and not for the people. This is what we have to do with the first measures. National policy, and the announcements of Europe's policy do not promise anything good. So it was obviously decided today to whip through Ceta, and I would warn you, if it is always said that the poison teeth have been pulled: That's wrong! It is true that investor protection is, of course, an essential part of this agreement, and to explain it to you, I would like to use an example. If you invest as a tenant today in a rental apartment and it comes by any change to the rental law that your rental rate increases, then you can of course not complain to the state of Austria because you were disappointed in your expectation. But this is exactly what investor protection for global corporations is: If they are disappointed in their expectation of an investment, then – and this is the basis in this agreement – they should be able to take advantage of the state in terms of compensation for damages. I also say to you: Do not be deceived by the proposed discussion that you now want to set up an investment court instead of secret arbitration courts! And don't be fooled if it's claimed that this isn't a parallel justice! If you want to enforce claims today, you have to go to the ordinary dishes in Austria. These ordinary dishes basically also work very neatly. They call for more money, but this government doesn't give them that money. That means that this justice available to you will be broken. Ceta allows companies to go to an extra set-up international court. I'm asking: Why is there no international Court of Justice for Global Economic Crime? Why is the VW exhaust scandal not being dealt with quickly before an international court? – This was about consumer interests, and they are not on the agenda here. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] I would like to address a question that is also related to that, and I would like to mention the VW scandal again. You know – I have said it many times here – that in the USA VW has paid 25 billion euros in compensation and has carried out a software update in Europe, over which one can very much argue. Europe has simply failed to pursue a large and worldwide economic scandal! The European Commission, however, has drawn its conclusions from this and has launched something like a European collective action, a directive for association action, and this is quite proper. But now comes the dangerous time: This Directive shall, according to the Commission, enter into force by 1 January 2019. This is a challenge for the Austrian Presidency with 1. I am very concerned about the awareness that prevails in this Federal Government on consumer protection. We remember that Minister Blümel in any committee, I believe, said about the third question, in which areas one should fight against gold plating, i.e. over-fulfilment of EU standards: consumer protection. I see that this government may water down this directive in such a way that there can be no progress in Europe, and we should all do so together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9908	Next: Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e9932	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Ladies And gentlemen at the gallery! Yes, it is a good direction for Europe. Europe must bring the big solutions – we have heard them today – and international trade agreements between Europe and other countries are such large solutions. Let's take a look at this: It is a trade agreement between Canada, a country with 37 million inhabitants, and Europe with 550 million inhabitants. I think the opportunities for the Canadians are the same as for us, and we have the same standards. So what are we afraid of? – We are not afraid of Canada, my Ladies and gentlemen, we want to see the opportunities the Austrian economy has. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ]] Mr. Leichtfried, your polemics today at the beginning – I know you and for myself a little bit differently – has bothered me a little. There is, in fact, a seven-sided authority, which was granted on 25 June. October 2016 has been issued to our magistrate. Walter Grahammer, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, Permanent Representative of Austria to the European Union, mandates the signing of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada and the European Union and its Member States. This authority is signed by Mrs Doris Buresund of Mr Christian Kern. We have carried this along at the time, and we have always had a clear line here, but let us stick to the facts, ladies and gentlemen. I think that's very, very important. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] If, under the motto: a Europe that protects, we go to this Presidency and, as one of the points, we have the protection of prosperity on the agenda – and there is competitiveness at the top, but also the fair conditions and deepening of the internal market – then I have to say quite honestly – Mr Katzian is unfortunately not in the hall now – we have always spoken against Gold Plating, but we have always been very clear about fair conditions. And we have not called into question the protection of workers, but we have resisted the fact that there is excessive bureaucracy and that there are severe shocks for entrepreneurs, and that, ladies and gentlemen, nothing has changed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr Blümel said it was necessary to save on the systems – on the EU side and, of course, at home. And we have proved it, right at the beginning of the legislative period, that we do not save people: We have introduced a family bonus, we have lowered the unemployment rate for the low-paid and we have immediately reduced the VAT rate for hotels. These are all the measures that benefit people in our country. So measure us by the actions! We have taken the first steps, and they are for the people in our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I come back to the European level: Everyone should make a fair contribution. We all know that internationalisation and digitization are facing very great challenges. And we responded. On the one hand, the OECD has prepared an action plan to combat tax avoidance and, on the other hand, in Austria, in order to prevent the exploitation of the different tax systems, we have already put in place many concrete measures in the past to limit tax evasion and tax fraud, ladies and gentlemen. And what is it about now? – It is actually an establishment scheme, namely the digital facility. In principle, the profit in that To tax the country in which the establishment of the company is located. This is not so easy today in the age of digitization, because one sometimes does not know where the facility is. That is why we can only regulate this at international level. The Minister of Finance is on course, and we will try to find a solution here within the framework of our Presidency, but we also need the other countries to do so, and we are working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10014	Next: Mrs Doris Margreiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10038	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators in front of the TV sets and on the gallery! You certainly know the old saying: Whoever pays, makes it. And you really have to congratulate this government, because it lives this maxim in all the facets of its daily political work, but let's take a closer look at it. The European Union is a unique peace project. It opens the way for us as Europeans to face the challenges of the 21st century. Throughout the century, we jointly resolve that we are thinking about issues such as climate change, more prosperity for all and a just economic and labour market policy. Just right, just is an important keyword: The Court of First Instance would also say that Europe-wide companies are selling taxes such as corporate tax where profits are generated. In March, the EU Parliament voted in favour of the need for a uniform and fair system across Europe. What we see, however, is that our Minister of Finance and the Government are systematically blocking these decisions, and that even now, shortly before we take over the Presidency in the second half of 2018, it is to be noticed that the content will certainly be only about refugees, border protection and terror. The boulevards are on it, and what the boulevards say, this government is on it, as it shows – so much on the subject of populism. The true refugees, we have heard today, are the tax refugees. They cost us a lot of what the refugees cost you always scribble. While about Google continues to tax only 0.27 percent of its profits in the EU, further tax gifts are distributed in Austria, and corporate tax is set to zero on non-traced profits. Of course, the biggest companies in this country are saying thank you. One can assume that this tax gift will cost people up to 6 billion euros. Don't tell me this is about investment and the boosting of the economy! I'm out of business myself. [[Abg. Höbart: From the planning industry maybe!]] They have been the ones who told us at the budget a month ago that there is no longer any investment increase in the high economy. [[Abg. Höbart: If you call the Chamber of Workers an economy, then yes!]] It was suspended like many other measures that would have helped SMEs to implement the good order situation into sustainable growth. What does this blue-black government do instead of creating a level playing field on the market? – It reduces taxpayers, hundreds of posts are no longer occupied, and they do not have to complain about too little work now. The consequence is clear: The black sheep get away even easier. But they have also invested quite diligently in you, because, we remember: Whoever pays, makes it. And now – and this is really the summit of the threat – the FPÖ is also sitting there and suddenly fighting for Ceta. The FPÖ has fought for the Austrians before the election, for the people – clearly – and this very people whom it has elected will certainly be very grateful if, through the introduction of arbitration courts, the companies in Austria will have the say in the future and no longer the government. [[Abg. tiny: No arbitration courts are introduced!]] There you can say something else so often, that is quite clear and also understandable on the basis of the facts. [[Abg. Little: No, that's not true!]] Come on. You don't always use this lead, with this hanging record, that the SPÖ would have agreed to this! The SPÖ has always said quite clearly and clearly that we are committed to ratification here in Parliament, which has always been clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I heard that we had decided. Nothing has been decided at all. You have decided today in the Council of Ministers and you will decide in this legislative period here in these areas under black and blue. And that's really crazy, because you, dear FPÖ, with your vice chancellor, have led your Austrians, as you always call them, behind the light and sold them to Brussels. And that's exactly what you've always criticized on everyone else – so much for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Do you know what it really is about in a social Europe, in a Europe that is such a grand peace project? – It is about fair trade – we have already heard today – and not about unconditional free trade. Exports to and imports from Canada has already existed, so don't pretend that if Ceta is not implemented, there will be no more economic cooperation! It is also a matter of combating wage and social dumping, of ensuring that there is fair wages for services which you always demand, but at this point we also have to say: They want to get back to this wage and social dumping law, which we created in Austria in 2011 during the opening of the East, so that the companies will benefit from it and the small companies will stay on the track. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] This position is also represented in the EU. They want to tear control under the nail and in the future determine who is being controlled and who is not. We remind ourselves again: Whoever pays, makes it. This is not in the sense of the working people in this country, I tell you. Of course, there are also people working in companies. No one wanted it like that, but you wanted it that way...
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10124	Ladies and gentlemen, you must come to the conclusion, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10140	... and the one who supported you in the election campaign. And that's what it's all about: Whoever pays, makes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10167	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10188	Madam President. High house! Dear spectators at the gallery! I think it's It is very important that we distinguish two things here: We have another urgent item on Ceta at 3 p.m. today, and we are now talking a little more generally about the European Union under the quite populist heading: “A Europe for people and not for corporations”. I think it's important that we keep this from happening. Milton Friedman once said: “You must be distinguish sharply between being pro free enterprise and being pro business.” – What does he mean by what is his intention? – He believes that the biggest enemy of the free market is in part businessmen, the big business people. Why? – Because he believes that the problem is that all these businessmen of course do not want to abandon their privileges they have received. They do want the free market, but they do not want to give up privileges. Let's be honest: We all have had many appointments with entrepreneurs in the last few weeks, months and years, with the Chamber of Commerce, with other representatives, with lobbyists, but none of us will have an appointment with the Chamber of Commerce where an economic chamberman told him: Let us remove the rules of commerce and make it easier for new companies to enter the market! – It's a utopia, it just doesn't exist, and that's a huge problem. We have built a system of privileges that leads exactly to the fact that no one wants to give up these privileges. I said earlier that the title of today's current European hour is: “A Europe for people and not for corporations” – I can add: for young people, because the system we have, this system of privileges, is something old-fashioned. It is an old-fashioned system that will keep picking at us young people at the end of the day because we do not have the chance to do something with young and new, innovative ideas. Even the new companies, which are now repeatedly mentioned in the media, such as Google, Facebook, Amazon et cetera, have used just these old privileges and have become gatekeepers. They're gatekeepers, which means as much as: They do not allow other new companies to enter. At the University of Chicago there was a conference two months ago with the American antitrust authority and representatives from Silicon Valley, and one of the arguments that one of the speakers presented there was: “there is a,kill zone” around alphabet – so Google – “and Facebook, which startups cannot survive”. – That’s exactly the problem, and that’s exactly what we should think: that these privileges, which old-age companies have, are harmful to young businesses, of course, just as harmful to small and medium-sized enterprises. If we are already with the antitrust authority – Mrs Mlinar mentioned it earlier – it has been a colleague of our liberal partner organisation, Mrs Vestager, who has also taxed Apple, who has paid EUR 13 billion, because it has received illegal subsidies in Ireland. It is precisely these illegal subsidies that it has received there that are this old system that we finally need to break up to give young and new entrepreneurs a chance. There are also some of these companies in Austria, which are mostly close to the state and have been fixed in their position for decades. Why is that so? - Because they are job providers: In some cases, for the government and on the other hand, job creators for the most powerful generation that has existed in recent decades, namely the Baby Boomer generation. Their representatives have been thoroughly involved in these close-to-state companies – I must say that Unfortunately to say so – and this does not give young people the opportunity to become innovative somewhere, to take opportunities somewhere, and with our laws, with our regulations at European level, we always protect these companies, so as not to give new companies a chance to create new ideas. The European Union I am dreaming of is a little bigger. The European Union, which I am dreaming of, no longer has these all-encompassing regulations; this European Union has a free market that we are proud of, a competition that we are proud of, and which finally pushes aside all these privileges. The European Union, which I dream of, gives young people opportunities and gives young entrepreneurs and innovative ideas the opportunity to develop fully. In conclusion, I think it is important to say – especially towards SPÖ and, in particular, towards colleagues, Lightfried: Companies are not evil, it is the system – you have addressed the system several times. It is the old system that is evil because this system exists to the corporations, large companies and individual groups of privileges that make it impossible for new, young, innovative ideas to develop. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10252	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:04:56]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10273	According to § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure prior to the entry into the agenda, the request made by the honourable Member at the same time for the self-employed amendment 229/A(E). The core, fellow Members and colleagues on ‘CETA’s refusal and group members’ are to be dealt with urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at the earliest 3 hours after receipt of the agenda, i.e. 15.05 a.m. in this case. [[12:05:30]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 249/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10297	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply 249/J of Question 257/J of MEPs Cox, colleagues and colleagues on the “Inadmissibility of Party Political Advertising to Schools – Visit by the Federal Chancellor, the Vice chancellor, the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Research and the Head of State of Styria at the Volksschule Murfeld” by the Federal Minister for Public Service and Sport. [[Abg. Höbart: The Socialist Youth...!]] Since today's meeting, as has just been discussed, called for a urgent request to be dealt with, this brief debate will follow. [[12:06:30]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10327	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10581	The debate on points 1 and 2, 4 and 5, 6 and 7, 8 to 18, 19 and 20 and 21 to 32 of the agenda is proposed. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10606	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP 120, SPÖ and FPÖ each 107 as well as NEOS and list mushroom per 36 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on these speaking times which I have presented. I'm seeking approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:07:44]] 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (108 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Development Cooperation Act, the Federal Law on the Auslandsösterreicher Fund, the Rotkreuzgesetz, the Integration Act, the Recognition and Assessment Act, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act, the Banking Act, the Exchange Act 2018, the Foreign Market Supervisory Act 2004, the E-Money Act 2010, the Deposit Insurance and Investor Remuneration Act, the Financial Conglomerate Act, the Financial Market Money laundering Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Act, the Real Estate Investment Fund Act, the Investment Fund Act 2011, the National Bank Act 1984, the Accounting Act, the Reorganisation and Dissolvency Act 2010, the Insurance Supervisory Act 2016, the Securities Supervisory Act 2018, the Economic Owner Register Act, the Payment Services Act 2018, the Federal Budget Act Health and safety law, the German law on animal health, the German law on animal health, the German law on animal health, the German law on animal health, the German law on animal health, the German law on animal health, the German law on animal health, the German law on animal health, the German law on animal health, the German law on health care, the German law on health care, the German law on health care, the German law on health care, the German law on health care, the law on health care, the law on health care, the law on health care, the law on health care, the law on health care, the law on health care, the law on health care, the law on health care, the law on health care, the law on psychotherapy, the law on psychotherapy, the EEA psylogy law, the EEA law, the law on psytherapy, the law on pharmatherapy, the law on pharmaceutical medicine law, the law on veterinary safety law, the law on blood safety law, the law on tissue safety, the law on health institutions and health institutions, the law on medical devices, the legislation on medical devices, the law on the legislation on the legislation on veterinary devices, the legislation on veterinary products, the legislation, the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on veterinary products, the legislation on veterinary products, the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on veterinary products, the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the health, the legislation on the legislation on the health, the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the health, the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the health, the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on the legislation on veterinary productss, Non-smoker protection law, the Health Telecommunications Act 2012, the Genetics Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Federal Law on the Reorganisation of the Federal Sports Institutions, the Federal Law on the Health and Accidental Insurance, the Notary Insurance Act 1972, the Federal Sports Law 2017, the Federal Law on Passenger and Passenger Rights Agency, the Amateur Radio Law 1998, the Federal Roads Act 2002, the Railway Transport and Passenger Law, the driving licence law, the Austro Control GmbH, the German law on the radio equipment market surveillance law, the Opportunity Law 1996, the Convention on the Promotion of Goods and Energy Fund Law in 1996, the Federal Roads Act on the Law on the Law on Railways and Passenger Law in the Roads, the Law on the Railways and Passenger Law in the Railways, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on theMaterials- DataProtection- Adaptation Act2018 )( 139d.b.) 2. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Law on the establishment of a Bundespensionskasse AG (140 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10663	We shall now proceed to points 1 and 2 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr. Dr. Peter Wittmann is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10698	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! We are discussing the third part of the changes made by the General Data Protection Regulation, the adaptation of the Material Laws, and I must say at the beginning of my speech that I am actually very disappointed by the process of the government which has already won itself in several things by massively disregarding Parliament, for example by appointing a President of the National Council for three weeks. This means that Parliament is not taken seriously. This has continued with this law now, by hiding material laws here, which have nothing at all to do with the General Data Protection Regulation, which did not even make a reference to it, but were ultimately material laws which would have to be dealt with in all other committees, namely the Financial Committee. Even the colleagues of the Freedom Party – I suppose that was not a playful surprise – were surprised that these material laws were incorporated into this law. This is a disdain on the part of Parliament, as I have not yet experienced it here for 17 years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I must also express my displeasure that President Sobotka has not intervened in this respect of the way in which Parliament is treated and the legislative process that the Parliament itself has given itself actually disregards in various committees. I think this is a failure of the President – I am sorry that he is not sitting here today, and I am going to address it again in a written request – and I think it is particularly a perfectly unjustified and disdainful conduct of the Ministry of Finance. The package contained three laws that have nothing to do with data protection, and in the material laws in which one has made a reference to data protection, there were still changes that have nothing to do with data protection. If you are trying to adapt such a difficult matter, is it a process that completely undermines trust, and I wonder how we should make a deregulation law with which we will abolish 5,000 regulations and reintroduce 4 500 of them? Who is telling us that they have not been changed by taking account of the way in which some ministries act here? – That is, the distrust you have now sown is probably greater than what you have achieved through it. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's right!]] I also believe that it will be very difficult for the coalition partner to give you this confidence that you will not change anything in the matter laws if you want to implement the deregulation law. I consider this procedure to be truly scandalous and not daily in the last 20 years! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] To the Matters-Data Protection-Adaptation Act itself: With all these three materials that we have discussed, a huge chance has been missed. We have failed to introduce a modern data protection law in Austria. We didn't do it, we went to the knees in front of the companies. And what is celebrated by ÖVP side as “consultation rather than punishment”, yes, dear friends, what does that mean? – If Facebook misuses 10,000 data sets and illegally distributes them to any foreign data processor, will the Federal Chancellor go to Facebook and advise Facebook? – That’s no more ridiculous than what you’re going to deliver! That's absurd! Absorbed is what you deliver here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That means, in fact, it's about protecting the great ones. I don't know why you protect Google, Facebook and others from association complaints, because that's the only way to force these giants into your knees with legal means. They refuse legal protection to the individual and offer all legal possibilities to the corporations. In reality, this is a missed opportunity. You are even against the intention of the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation, because you have rarely claimed the opportunity to assert opposition rights in the fields of safety and health, without any way of responding. I also think that this is illegal in Europe. Actually, you missed a huge chance. They went back to their knees in front of the big ones. FPÖ still claims to be the representative of the little man. They only support large corporations! You do it in this law, you do it at Ceta and you do it on all other occasions. Furthermore, the way in which you deal with Parliament is scandalous!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10766	Next, Mr Magistrate. Wolfgang Gerstlzu Word reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e10790	Madam President. Minister of State on the Government Bank! I have to address colleagues Wittmann because it is important that the spectators know what really happened. [[Abg. Plessl: They have just learned!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Get out with the truth!]] [[Further call at the SPÖ: But there I am excited!]] Mr Wittmann, it is good for you and your group, the Social Democracy, if you keep a certain line. You lose completely the confidence in you when you change your positions of the time when you were in the government, at the time when you are no longer in the government, completely. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is to your detriment and to the detriment of democracy. Mr Wittmann, what are we responsible for in this House? – That we come up with something that might not belong here. In that respect, we are also grateful to you, Mr Wittmann: They were the ones who noticed that part of the financial unit had nothing to do with the EU General Data Protection Regulation. I'm not gonna be able to say it was okay here, that should have been different. - We are grateful to you. [[Abg. Plessl: Who took this in?]] But it is important that the parliamentary process can also start, and we have gone the way – together. All the political groups have gone the way, all of us have said together, we want to take this out, we also give the resorts a chance to review it. The resorts have met our desire: All the departments have reported to us what has something to do with the General Data Protection Regulation, what has nothing to do with it and where there are mixed competences. Because there is such a mix of expertise in one area, the Minister of Finance is here today: because it is also very important for the economic location that our banks can issue subordinated bonds in the second half of this year, and because it is important for our economic location that we carry out our creditor protection here – this is about a creditor protection, an EU directive that protects investors. All of this should actually be in your interest as a lawyer and as a representative of the Austrians, so that we can also receive increased investor protection in Austria, Mr. Wittmann! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] To conclude: Parliament has done its job, Parliament has done this work, and, we control the government, the government has also done so. That is why I can now table an amendment which will remove precisely those provisions which you have previously criticized from this proposal, then assign them extra to the Financial Committee, give them advice and come to the decision-making process. Thus, all Austrians can be sure that here, in this Parliament, financial matters remain in the financial committee and data protection remains in the constitutional area. That is clear! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Now I have to see all the spectators and As you see, ask for a little patience – that will take time. For protocolic reasons, I have to read the request literally, and that takes something. [[Abg. Jarolim: We can take a snack!]] I am now tabling the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I can still welcome the visitor group from Bad Erlach here. [[I would like to congratulate the ÖVP and the representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[12:19]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11024	The amendment is therefore properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Dr Nikolaus Scherak has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11049	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I have not fully understood what Mr Gerstl's criticism of Mr Wittmann has just said. I think there are two things we need to distinguish here: On the one hand, we have a Ministry of Finance which has tried to bring things into a law package that does not belong there. That is, I think, anything other than fine, and we as Parliament have to criticise it quite clearly. We have, on the other hand, and I agree with Mr Stefan and Mr Gerstl, a self-confident Parliament – rightly, I ask for this much more often –: We have all said together clearly that we do not allow ourselves to be offered such an approach, and that, accordingly, we also take out the parts that do not belong to the Matters Data Protection Adjustment Act – at least almost all, because with a few, the need exists due to the implementation period. I believe that this question of how to deal with the National Council or how to deal with us as parliamentarians is something that we should in principle take much, much more seriously. We had the debate in the early days, despite a German chancellor, who is properly represented on and on himself according to the federal constitution. I still believe – and I have said this very clearly – that it is for me, as a parliamentarian, to criticize such a thing. It is also here: We should clearly criticise the fact that parliamentary practices have not been observed. We can also talk about other things in this context, such as the question – we have already discussed it in the Committee – of the assessment period. Twelve days for the review of 200 material laws – this is quite difficult. I know that it was not you, Mr Federal Minister, but that the previous government has not managed to get the Matters Data Protection Adjustment Act started in time, but if we are honest, it is not impossible to assess such a comprehensive package in 12 days, but it is an incredible challenge. These are things that we should not like in the future. There was also something in the Committee that I very clearly criticized. In fact, there was a deal that employees are available from all ministries, if there are any questions, as they are very different matter laws. From some ministries or at least from one, no one was there, and I then feel it is very difficult to hold the debate. These are all things, but we should simply defend ourselves, because, of course, if we have questions, we will not get any answers. It is clear to me, Minister of State Moser, that you cannot give them all, that is not at all the question, but precisely because of this we agree on appropriate procedures. On the content: We won't agree to the Matien-Data Protection-Adaptation-Law. As in the first part, I consider basic things to be DSGVO-unfavorable. The right to object is excluded here; it is excluded from the right to object, in particular in the health field; it excludes the right to limit processing on a flat-rate basis; it excludes the obligation to provide information on a flat-rate basis. I think that this is simply a European-law-law, and not a particular fact that seeing eyes are being produced in this area. By the way, this is not only what I see, but also the Austrian data protection authority, and who, if not the Austrian data protection authority, has the same competence in this regard. What we are doing here is to exclude very large-scale rights of interest in many areas; this is not in the sense of data protection, that is not in the sense of the privacy of the citizens, and therefore it is not in the interest of the Austrians. I don't understand why we're doing this. Especially in the General Data Protection Regulation, the European Parliament and also individual Members have fought for a comprehensive and high level of data protection – and Europe-wide – over the years, and what we are doing now is to undermine and undermine this in sub-areas, and I clearly believe that this is the wrong way.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11100	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Harald Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11124	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The General Data Protection Regulation is the subject, and this means that a European Union legislation is directly applicable in Austria, as of 25. May this year, in nine days. Unfortunately, the previous Federal Government has failed to implement the implementation, which is why it is now up to us and that in a relatively short time to do so. In this respect, Mr Wittmann's suggestion is also interesting that there was a great opportunity rejected, so if someone had a great chance to do something here in peace, it was the SPÖ in the government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] Unfortunately, it didn't happen, but I'm going to go into that later. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact is that this basic data protection regulation is directly applicable, but because of legal certainty and clarity, it is necessary that this be implemented in the individual laws in Austria, and we have endeavoured to make this basic data protection regulation as limited as possible to the Austrians as possible to implement the legal users. Therefore, this time again more than 100 laws with regard to the General Data Protection Regulation are amended – that is, a huge number. I now have to agree with Mr Wittmann, whom I am grateful for having pointed out directly in the Committee that we have tried to accommodate in this large number of legislation materials that have nothing to do with the General Data Protection Regulation. This is a process which, unfortunately, is not unique, I do not understand, Mr Wittmann – I very much appreciate you, even for your materiality – that it is as if it were unique. This has unfortunately been tried again and again in recent years – at least since I was here – at least in the budget accompanying laws: Whenever you had a large number of laws, you would like to try to hide things that can easily be spent on this detour, because they can no longer be debated. Then it comes to the wrong committees, to the budget accompanying law it is then in the financial committee, for example often subjects that would have belonged to the judicial sector, and others. So, unfortunately, this is not unique, but I am glad that we have now agreed here, as Parliament, that we oppose it, because in this case it was the Ministry of Finance, which brought in at least three legislative proposals that have nothing to do with the General Data Protection Regulation. The problem is that we cannot then debate it, because the Constitutional Committee simply does not have the competence to debate these issues; whether or not we agree with them is quite another issue. This is simply a wrong procedure, and that is why we have agreed together that we can take out these legislative instruments, assign them to the Financial Committee, then negotiate them and then, however, be decided or not. In any case, this procedure was actually not all right, and we will really be careful that this will not happen in the future. We are also perplexed, we have overlooked this because of this large number of laws that are being amended here, but the ÖVP has criticised this together with us, and we have just solved it together. But please do not pretend that this is unique and now the greatest scandal in parliamentarianism! It's not all right, and we're not going to make it clear that we're grateful for the suggestion. In the future, we will pay even more attention to this and, if something like this happens, we will point it out and ask for it again and again, so that they can only deliver to us what really belongs directly to it. – That once on this part. We already have to say one thing about the General Data Protection Regulation: This is precisely a requirement of the European Union. I or we in the Group of the Party of European Socialists are not very happy with many things. The main aim was to reach the large Internet companies, but in fact it has been a massive burden on many small companies. The approach to consulting instead of punishing, Mr Wittmann, has now also referred to Facebook or Google, and this is of course very polemic, because it is actually about the fact that this basic data protection regulation concerns all small companies, and it is not to be despised what that means. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann]] Every cleaning company, any carpenter, any small one-man company or three-, five- or ten-man company that has nothing to do with such issues is directly affected, has to work very hard and is also threatened with penalties. That's incredible. I would like to give an example: A lawyer – Mr Wittmann is also a lawyer – who is supposed to design a purchase contract, should no longer be allowed to send them to the parties in the future, but must first send them a message as to whether he is entitled to process the data – for in a purchase contract there are data inside it – and only when he receives the notification that he is allowed to process the data can he send the purchase contract to the parties. If the lawyer does not return this notice because it is not understood or the parties do not read their e-mails, he must not send this draft at all. These are only minor things now, and lawyers will be able to deal with them, but you can see what the effort, even the economic effort, which is completely unproductive, has been created there. In principle, this basic data protection regulation is also a matter for me, but it is now an EU law, it is directly applicable, and therefore we have made the most of it from our point of view. That's what we're doing today. We are implementing this in 103 laws, and we are trying to implement it at least with a minimum burden on the Austrians, on the economy, but also on the citizens. From our point of view, therefore, nothing stands in the way of consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11203	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Alfred Noll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11224	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is indeed the privilege of the speaker of the smallest group to get bored by repeating what has been said three, four and five times so far. I am simply saying that the content of the objections to the implementation of the basic data protection regulation formulated by Mr Scherak is the same thing. There was a chance. Mostly this does not hold true to European law, we will see it in a few years when the relevant complaints and remedies will succeed. Let me take the opportunity, however, and once again to this malaise of collective laws and the attempt to bring back into a collective law to implement data protection, material things that have nothing to do with them! This is a fundamental issue which Parliament should deal with even more thoroughly. It is not just that the Committee did not have representatives of all the ministries, it was unfortunately the representative the Ministry of Finance there, who replied to the question of why there are material-specific changes that have nothing to do with data protection: I can't tell you that! - I can't do that! That can't be! In fact, it is only thanks to the opposition that something which is routinely not read here in the house, namely 103 laws in the form of a collective law, has been taken into account by Parliament at all, that the government parties have learned what you have presented here. This is already a fundamental problem of parliamentarianism, because if the Members of this House cannot rely on the fact that the government documents also do what is at least in the title, then careful work is stopped here in Parliament. All of us, not only the population outside this house, but all of us know that what is presented here in the form of government documents cannot be studied by all of us in extenso, especially when the assessment periods are getting shorter and the time pressure increases. So not only has confidence in the ministerial bureaucracy been severely damaged here, but I think we should take care of the Krawattl itself and put emphasis on the fact that more thorough work is being done. I hope that this occasion will serve to prevent such an event from happening in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11263	Mrs. Arrange Eva-Maria Himmelbauer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11285	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stefan has already mentioned this: Nine days remain until the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation. We're dealing with the 2nd. Materials-Data Protection-Adaptation Act, with which adjustments to the General Data Protection Regulation are also to be made in these laws. There are many different areas that are regulated there. For me, above all, the social sector, which I would like to take out, is the BMASGK's place, especially those provisions which regulate health care, care and care of older people, people with disabilities, as well as those who are dying, in order to ensure legal certainty for organisations, social institutions, even on this path in these last nine days, but also beyond; in the sense of their activity, when it comes, among other things, to a documentation of care or care, when it comes to the collection of sensitive data necessary for the activity in order to create legal certainty. At the same time, however, I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity here at the speaker's desk and all those who have been using these last nine days to set up their processes in order to provide important assistance to their companies in order to shape their activities in DSGVO-compliant associations or institutions. For companies, the Chamber of Commerce – especially for individual sectors – provides important information on its websites. The clubs are served, for example in Lower Austria by the NÖ.Regional, but also via their federal associations, for example in the sports sector. In some cases, roof associations are also active for facilities to provide important documents and to ensure assistance. The public sector must not be excluded either; especially for communities which are still in the implementation phase in these last days, the local associations offer important assistance, from processing activities to the list of model documents et cetera. I can only give the heart to anyone to take advantage of these aids, to take them into the facilities so that they can be prepared for the 25th of May. Why is that so important? – I can also reproduce to the SPÖ: The General Data Protection Regulation, you will hopefully have read it, is not a step-by-step guide. [[Abg. Wittmann:... read!]] This is not a step-by-step guide for those who are concerned, so it is all the more important to create legal certainty under these accompanying laws and also to promote appropriate assistance, because many are still in a legal uncertainty. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wittmann]] This will only clarify the audit activity of the data protection authority or various case law. That was also the reason for the fact that at the last meeting we included the issue of consulting instead of punishing; not, as you think, to protect the corporations, but to protect especially the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. [[Abg. Wittmann: You only protect the corporations!]] That is now 98 percent of our domestic companies in Austria, which have to implement this basic data protection regulation just as quickly as possible. Due to the lack of legal certainty, they need to receive assistance from the Data Protection Authority through advisory activities, which cannot be combined with a penalty clause. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wittmann.]] This is in accordance with this General Data Protection Regulation, which I may give you; I would like to show you the provisions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: Thank you very much for such advice!]] Data protection is a fundamental right, and this should also be protected accordingly. Today we will certainly not have talked about data protection for the last time. For us as legislators, it will always be a subject that needs to be considered in the coming legislative proposals, and I will fall on these issues in the future. I should like to congratulate all those who still devote themselves to the General Data Protection Regulation and to data protection compliance in these last nine days. We will continue to deal with data protection in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11379	The next item is the speech by Mr Walter Bacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11403	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! My dear colleague Himmelbauer, I'll give you the following: We will certainly deal more often with this, but we would have had a real chance to intervene, so to speak, in this grey zone that you have addressed, and to regulate things now. At the last meeting of the Constitutional Committee, this has gone through like a red thread, as in the last discussions here in the House. The government simply wants to achieve an anti- GDPR implementation of the material laws in order to pull the DSGVO's teeth. I think this is more than worrying, and the way in which Mr Wittmann has also referred to it is more than a question of questioning laws that have nothing to do with data protection. I am glad that this has been recognised by all the parties, so I am also grateful to Mr Gerstl for the request that the three laws that have nothing to do with it should be taken out. It was also the ÖVP and the FPÖ that showed the inadequacies when this issue was on the table, as was the Minister. It was obvious that someone else wanted to rejoice – whether it was the Ministry of Finance towards the others or the FPÖ’s ÖVP – that was put here. In any case, the implementation of the GDPR as we do now leads to an uncertainty of the population. This is a watering-up of criminal regulations. There is no or only a limited right to object, there is no or only a limited right to erasure of the data, no possibilities for associational action. I think that's also the way to explain the escape from Elga. However, there is another destruction of data protection rights: ==References== Material data protection adaptation laws relating to the GDPR have suddenly been pseudoanonymized from anonymized data. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, my God.]] This is a small but essential difference. With the right key, everything and everyone is re-identifiable, we can track the data back to a concrete person, so to speak. This part, for example, has also appeared in legislation from the transport sector. On my question to the Minister, this one has shown me and could not explain to me a very sympathetic axle tip. We then - I think you all - received an opinion from the Ministry of Transport. I must say that this opinion is not very comprehensible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One would also have to think where all of anonymized data is suddenly pseudoanonymized. It has also criticised the implementation of the GDPR in Austria by well-known data protectors such as Max Schrems or NGOs. Max Schrems contacted all the parties, you all talked to him, but he couldn't accommodate his concerns with you. I have already said it from this point of view and I say it again today: Data protection within the meaning of the General Data Protection Regulation does not mean protecting the data on and on its own, but rather protecting the people whose data are processed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Plessl: Very good!]] You, ladies and gentlemen, are responsible for this: Protect the human being! Do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11458	Next speaker: Mr Werner Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11482	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My previous speakers have made a great deal of progress on the content. [[Abg. Plessl: What is true!]] ==References== As already in the first adaptation law, but also in the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation into domestic law, namely the Data Protection Act, it was mainly about maintaining the very high level of data protection that we had in Austria up to now, while at the same time preventing excessive provisions that may result from the General Data Protection Regulation, which is EU law, directly works and implements in our domestic legal order – in which we agree, there is no doubt – a so-called Gold Plating – a circumstance that, as I mean, we have been very successful. We have also been very successful – Mr Bacher, I am speaking to you – in implementing the approach you have just carried out, namely protecting people and ensuring the protection of their personal data. It is of course like all the laws – I understand the approach of the opposition, which, of course, is always very critical – not always so that you have great joy with everything. I think that is very authentic. This basic data protection regulation has brought us some news, as we did not know it before. It has already been addressed the high administrative and organisational burden for companies, but also for associations and institutions in the future processing, storage and handling of data, especially when it comes to the necessary permissions, but also when it comes to concluding agreements on the handling and sharing of data when it comes to covering this legal spectrum. This creates new terms that we until now did not have to take into account in domestic law, and we do not know exactly what legal consequences this will have. But it is not the approach of this federal government – and here we come to the point – because things need to be changed, because that is direct EU law that has to be incorporated directly and directly into domestic legislation. In this way, the approach of the opposition is that everything is so bad, everything so negative that the rights of those concerned are excluded or an additional damage threatens to the population, is not actually comprehensible. [[Abg. Plessl: The collective complaint...!]] Especially you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, had had two years – and this has been mentioned today – to get your wishes, your ideas, all the good things that you have told us all here and today, nine days before the entry into force of this EU law – when you still had government responsibility. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Making oneself now, almost in the evening when the lazy man becomes diligent to criticize the Federal Government and to explain what would have been better to do before, does not deny a certain irony, a happiness on my part and also points out how your legal understanding on the issue of not having any more government responsibility now, but to have to sit in the opposition, has suffered at that time. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] Nevertheless, I believe that with the implementation of this General Data Protection Regulation, in which we had a very limited margin of time, this framework was implemented, we still managed to maintain high data protection standards, as we are used to, to prevent excessive provisions that would have been possible, and finally to protect the population, as mentioned above, but also, of course, to protect the Austrians' personal data. I think that after a short stage of play, everything will be made up in such a way that the average Austrian will say: Yes, that's a good law! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11554	May. Thomas Drozda is the next speaker: Member of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11579	Madam President. Federal Minister! It is interesting that you are talking about the “approach of opposition”, but this is not our topic today. It is not about the opposition approaches, it is about what you are presenting to us here, and about the quality of what you are presenting to us here. I would like to briefly describe this on the basis of both points which were on the agenda at the last meeting of the Constitutional Committee. We first had the issue of legal clearance as Agenda item 1, which says that more than 4,000 provisions should be removed. – So far, so good; only no one, as it turns out, looks at how many legal standards are actually lifted or are to become, and which are exactly in force. It is thanks to journalism, in this case a platform, that very penable jurisdiction has been prepared for jurisdiction, where withdrawals take place and where no withdrawals are found. I can only join the journalist who then meant – I quote –: It should be assumed that this legal consolidation will “reduce some surprise. ” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Herbert.]] That at the end of the legislators cannot say how many legal standards are in force and how many are to be abolished is actually close to the bankruptcy declaration. I have to tell you that in this clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] The second point is much more important, because it was not an advice, but it was actually a decision-making process. The danger of redundancy is great if you are the fourth or fifth speaker, but I still say it again: It is only thanks to the competence, far-sightedness and overview of the chairman of the Constitutional Committee that we are not sitting here today and decide on something where materials are smuggled in under the title of data protection, which have nothing to do with data protection. In this sense: Thank you, Peter Wittmann! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have to say that the implementation of the regulation – you know the questionability of this undertaking – instead of using the opportunities of the regulation, all the exceptions have been taken into account, those who offer themselves, and those who do not offer themselves, in part, even GDPR-absorbing, in order to implement a minimum level of data protection. They all know the examples, they are numerous: the creation of data collections in the field of education, the opening of health data for dubious projects, which challenged the topic of Elga. In the field of internal safety, the right of objection was completely eliminated, and in the field of road transport and road transport, the anonymized data was replaced by pseudoanonymized data. Furthermore, the opportunity to introduce an association complaint in connection with data protection violations has not been used. Now again, every individual claimant has to enforce his claims, which means a clear damage. Much was decided in the last minute and without public debate. We now have different parts that are simply illegal in Europe. To sum up, it is not a leaf of fame for parliamentarianism or a leaf of fame for the government. To be honest, the truth is that the government is relatively I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. In this sense, it would be nice if the Federal Minister could find a few more words to explain to us how we could possibly get into this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11654	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Wolfgang Gerstlzu Word reported. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11681	My previous speaker, Mr. Federal Minister out of office. Drozda has stated here that, according to the Law of Law, one does not know which standards are still in force and how many they would be. I see this as incorrect, the opposite is the case because the same system is used, Mr Drozda, as in your predecessor in 1999 - I do not know exactly how many predecessors it was from the SPÖ - which precisely determines what legal standards are in force and which are not yet in force. [[Abg. Drozda: How many are it? Tell us the number! Just tell us exactly how many it is!]] By the way, I insist that the law is in preparation and not yet completed, so you can't know the details yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11716	Mrs Melanie Erasim, you are next spoken. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11737	Highly esteemed Madam President! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated spectators on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! My colleagues in the political groups and previous speakers Peter Wittmann, Walter Bacherand Thomas Drozda have already been very intrusive about why this Data Protection Act does not correspond to the notions of modern data protection in the sense of social democracy. However, I would like to add some points. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] This law is not only to its extent – it covers about a hundred pages – very long, it is also very complex. Therefore, my access would be if such a convoluted decision were to be made that, as my previous speakers have said, at least the constitutional speakers of the government parties should know this content and not draw attention to the opposition to what has gotten into it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This law should ensure data protection according to modern regulations and provide answers to the questions of the present. But as it is likely to be decided today, it raises more questions than it provides answers. And in times of scandals around Facebook, I feel that I am grossly negligent, not one millimeter away from the EU standard. One thing is particularly evident in your policy in this area: It is not a question of protecting individuals, it is a matter for you, entrepreneurs and large-scale constituencies. to protect yourself, and you withdraw from the individual the opportunity to resist it. Although the law ensures great bureaucratic effort at all levels, it does not protect against the real dangers posed by large corporations such as Facebook and Google. However, we know that data protection is not a real concern to you at the latest since that plenary week in which you have decided the Federal Trojan, because since this decision was taken, everything else in data protection is only cosmetics anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, I also like to compare: That would be as if we were deciding here that every household would have to lay a sinful security door, but at the same time it will be decided that there is a universal key for all these security doors, which lies in the Ministry of the Interior, but cannot be guaranteed that it will not be passed on, and that a maximum of an abuse will have to be expected with a warning or advice. I also come to the final point of my statement, rather than punish the motion for a resolution on consultation. I have read these with great surprise, because it seems that your directors, ladies and gentlemen from the government groups – which is evident at the latest since the last meeting of the teaching committee – are: Businesses who misuse data are advised; Families and students in difficult situations will be removed and the penalties will be increased as in school blackness. What is this policy, ladies and gentlemen? – I can tell you: Turquoise Blue is a policy in which family and school counsellors have to fight with millions of cuts, but this money is used to protect those who can afford it anyway. We Socialists do not participate in this, therefore a clear no on this government proposal and on this motion for a resolution. I would like to express my regret once again that you have not inspired the necessary suggestions for improvement that we have put forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11811	Next, Mr. Dr. Johannes Jarolimzu has been reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11845	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Moser, Minister of Justice, for finally having succeeded in the Committee meeting together with Parliament in opposing the efforts of Mr Bundeskanzler – I am sorry to say this here – to put as much as possible into a law that has nothing to do with the law and to reject it. Thus, it has been successful to prevent the worst with an amendment by the government parties and to actually get away from the inaccurate laws that cannot be treated here. I would ask the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to expect Parliament to be very careful in the future, where the borders of the exceedable are. I do not want to thank all those colleagues of the ÖVP and the FPÖ and also Mr Moser for being able to send a strong signal. I'd like to give you an applause – but he's not coming, okay. [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister Moser and representatives of the SPÖ]] What is the mark of this law? What is the starting position and what is what the government parties have done about it? – It can be said that it delivers people in their intimacy to the large corporations. What intimacy is, these are data, are information, are behaviors, are all those things that one should actually pay attention to with utmost care. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I actually did not think it possible and was horrified that the data from Elga – one of the very central measures, the system in which the health data of the people of this country are stored, so that one knows what diseases they have, so that one knows what medications they get, so that one can deal with it and improve the health situation – simply so, under the title, one must be a research institute, quickly handed over to the economy. I have already heard that in this context, there is talk in specialist circles about data movement and data trading, and rightly so. The fact that one does not even frighten back with the most intimate data, but rather this more or less – the Federal Chancellor emphasizes time and again that one has to do something for the economy – is delivered to the economy, which I think is absolutely absurd. I think this is embarrassing, and I myself have come to the opinion – although I have always been a champion of the efforts to develop Elga to protect the people – that I will certainly be destroyed, and many others will do the same. But this will naturally happen something that should not happen: They are taking a step back in health care, and you are making great progress where you more or less deliver people in their openness to the companies. You should be ashamed of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the subject of road traffic regulations – and this is also significant –: We had so far in the road traffic regulations many offences, small, appropriate offences, which were therefore anonymized, because precisely because of the smallness, the insignificantness of these offences, one did not want them to be collected and then to be available to the police. There was a very balanced consideration behind that. They now go here and make out of the data actually pseudoanonymized data by creating artists in whose files you write everything that has happened in this regard, so that you could logically say the same thing, you no longer anonymize it, but assign it to the individual concerned. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, who are on the road and who will happen to one or the other of little emptiness, will certainly thank you very much for being so greatly provided by you in the future. Why the association action does not come, I wonder anyway, that has already been said by Mr Wittmann, that is a abdominal spot in front of Google and Facebook, but it shows what really is – if you allow me to formulate it in this way – politically and politically behind it, namely, a clear staging in favour of the economy. The people in this country are completely wreaked to you, and you'll probably fall on your head sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11897	The Federal Minister has made his speech next. – Mr Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e11971	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Today's agenda contains, as has already been mentioned, the 2nd. Matters-Data Protection-Adaptation Act, which included 103 articles – after the exception of three articles, it is 100 articles or 110 pages of legal text. I would also like to point out that the first Data Protection Act in this context has included 128 articles, 142 pages and 617 pages of materials, and this is also a reason why I would like to thank the Constitutional Service of my home most warmly for the fact that this collective law was created and that in a very short time we were able to make the necessary adjustments in time before the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Anger.]] I should also like to say the following: – Mr Wittmann, as committee chairman, rightly pointed out in committee: Three articles were included in this collective law, which had no reference to the Matters-Data Protection-Adaptation Act and which have also been removed. In this context, however, it should also be pointed out – and this has also been mentioned by honourable Member Scherak – that over 200 articles have been included in these collective laws. And, of course, it shouldn't be so that another one, a foreign matter, will be taken with it, but it happened. It was taken out, and I can assure you that in the future more attention will be given to it. I am also grateful to Parliament for taking the step in this direction. However, I would also like to point out that, as far as I am concerned, we have done everything we can to avoid taking place with regard to the exceptions which do not fit. Therefore, we have already pointed out in the circular letter to prepare this Material Amendment Act that only such legitimate projects are suitable for inclusion in the General Data Protection Adjustment Act 2018, which is intended to be adapted to Union law in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation. It has happened – that is not, as has been said, very positive, but I think that has now been corrected. As regards the comments in connection with the General Data Protection Regulation, it has already been mentioned that it acts directly and therefore also applies the protection measures of the General Data Protection Regulation in Austria directly, while this Act essentially takes account of the fact that the so-called opening clauses or the regulatory scope which open the General Data Protection Regulation are also used, inter alia, in order to further safeguard freedom of the press in Austria. In addition, it was taken into account that, in view of the fact that this has also been discussed in the context of the debate, it is also in line with European law, and I would also like to point out that, in cases of doubt, as the regulation is directly applicable, there is always a priority in EU law over national rules. This means that there are no restrictions on legal protection in this respect. Legal protection, Facebook and international corporations were also addressed. It should also be noted that, with the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation, those affected will have the opportunity to take action against companies even if they do not have a branch in Austria. In this case, the Austrian Data Protection Authority is called upon to bring about an agreed decision with the European Supervisory Authority. As regards legal protection, it should also be noted that the data protection authority may, on its own initiative, take an insight into the documents or data processing. This means that it can take action itself and is therefore not only a protection authority, the supervisory authority, but also a criminal authority. In this context, it is also very positive that the criminal authority has now been summarized. You know that the district authorities have been active in the past – in the future only the data protection authority will act as a criminal authority, which will certainly lead to a better and uniform implementation of data protection. It is also worth mentioning because the aspect of consulting has always been raised instead of punishing the fact that the data protection authority has the task of consulting, warning and punishing it in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation. That means that this is very much in line when choosing this procedure. I would also like to point out that if this is the first time a mistake has been committed, which is not intentional, not intentional, it is certainly the right way. In this context, I refer to the Labour Inspectorate Act, in which the principle of consulting has been applied for many years in such cases instead of punishment. This very principle should also apply in the area of data protection. As far as the collective complaint is concerned – even this one has been mentioned – we already have a collective complaint in Austria, namely the so-called mandated collective complaint. In other words, if an individual mandates an organisation or association, he or she may make the complaint on behalf of the client. So we already have these. On the other hand, what has been addressed is a collective complaint without mandate by the person concerned – we do not have them, it is also not mandatory in the General Data Protection Regulation. In this case, the creation of a commitment would lead to Gold Plating, which we wanted to avoid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kolba.]] I would also like to point out that, in this context, you know, Mr Kolba, efforts are currently taking place at EU level, in connection with the Injunctions Directive, in the context of consumer protection. If one considers the present draft more closely, one also sees that the performance complaint, the collective complaint, which is now intended or planned, usually requires a mandate from those concerned. A mandate shall not be provided for in the case of damage to bagatolls or scatters. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kolba.]] You see, therefore, that in this area we are in line with the efforts at EU level, that we will also be involved in this, but that a simultaneous single entry of Austria in the context of the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation would certainly not have been opportunistic or not appropriate at the moment. Finally, I would like to point out that the data protection authority has also been increased in this context: So far she had a staff of 27 employees, now it's five more employees. This means that it will also be able to cope with the future increasing task. Now on a favorite topic also of the former Minister of State Drozda on legalisation: I would also like to point out that it is very well known that the legalisation of 5 000 rules will result in the application of only more than 2 500 rules in the latter consequence. The reason is that these rules have not been formally applicable until now, but have not had a case of use. It was therefore appropriate to carry out a cleansing and bring the ballast that you no longer need, the dead right that you no longer need to fall away. In order for this to go in one direction, where it is ensured that this is done in a clear and clear way, we have a negative list – these are those laws that fall away – and a positive list – which are those laws that remain in force. We have a good best-practice example from the past, namely, from 1999, in which a first such legalisation took place, which found the approval of all the parties represented in Parliament at that time, including that of Mr Jarolim – and I appreciate Mr Jarolim over all the measures – who at that time also rightly pointed out that the legislation at that time had led to improved access to justice and that more legal certainty was created at the same time. These very principles, of course, also apply to the future. Therefore, I hope that after the five-week review period, this legal clearance will also be given your approval, because it will make Austria clearer, create more legal clarity, and in particular the legal information system will be more meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12065	There is now no mention of this. So I close the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: First of all, we are voting on the draft. Materials-Data Protection-Adaptation Act 2018 in 139 of the Supplements. Deputies Mag. Gerstl, Mag. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment here. I would therefore like to begin by voting on the parts concerned by the proposed amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Gerstl, Mag. Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment which deals with the cancellation of Articles 6, 15 and 16, the resulting amendments to the title and the table of contents and the resulting renumbering of the article designations, as well as amendments to the new Article 22. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is unanimous, therefore adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. - That's the majority. That is why we shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in third reading for this draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution, which is annexed to the Committee's report 139 of the Supplements, on 'Intelligence and evaluation of the principle for a further anchorage of the principle'. ‘Consult instead of punishing’ appropriate administrative criminal law provisions in the field of effect of all Federal Ministries’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 13) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law amending the Federal Law on the establishment of a Bundespensionskasse AG, including title and entry into 140 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority, so the draft law is adopted at third reading. [[13:14:16]] 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (106 and 106 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Banking Act and the Investment Fund Act 2011 (136 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12179	We're coming to the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Krainer is the first to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12206	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In September, Lehman's pleas are for the tenth time, and we are still drawing lessons from the financial crisis, from the banking crisis. One of the lessons learned is that the most important supervisory body, supervisory body in a bank, the Supervisory Board, should be independent of the Executive Board. Control usually takes place afterwards, and what we have seen in the hypo plea, for example, that the Chairman of the Board of Directors, immediately after he was chairman of the board of directors in the Hypo, was changed to the Supervisory Board and there even to the position of the Chairman, was very, very bad, because in this way the system cultererer and thus the system FPÖ, the system Haider was extended in the bank, which had an unmistakable share in the fact that the pleite of this bank, which the liberals in Carinthia have become so large. That is to say, one has learned from it as to how the composition of the Supervisory Board should be the control bodies of the Bank. It would even be today. no longer possible for a member of the Executive Board of a bank to change directly to the Supervisory Board. For this, there are so-called European guidelines on supervision. These have now been changed and strengthened in non-essential questions. This is about the composition of the remuneration committee – this is part of the Supervisory Board, which regulates how much money the board gets, how high the basic salaries are, how high the bonuses are and the like. These new guidelines now clarify the need for independent supervisory councils to sit there. The Government template has exemplaryly implemented these European guidelines. We wanted to vote in and in favour of the Committee, but we were surprised at the fact that the EIA and the FPÖ have tabled an amendment which will lead us not to fully implement this, but to certain banks, as far as the remuneration committee is concerned, that there should not be a sufficient number of independent supervisory councils. That is why we voted against the Committee, and that is why we will vote against it in plenary today. The result, if it is now adopted in this way, is that Austria has to say to European supervision, we only partially comply with the guidelines. That's something I don't think Austria should do. We should fully implement these guidelines, which are reasonable – it is reasonable that those who control a bank have the greatest degree of independence from that bank, and those who determine how high bonuses are, how high the remuneration of the board of directors is, are largely independent. Unfortunately, this will not be the case because of this amendment in Austria. You still have a little time to consider this and to conclude that we are taking it back again and complying with these reasonable European guidelines at 100 percent, not only partially. I ask you to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12257	The next item is the report by Mr Deputies Head. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12279	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Krainer, at the beginning of his remarks, correctly explained the reasons why in the last ten years a whole series of provisions had to be made at the pan-European level, which, of course, were also implemented nationally: in order to draw lessons, as Mr Krainer said, from Lehman's plea, but unfortunately also in the national field, for example, from the case of Hypo Alpes-Adria, so that such things cannot be repeated. In concrete terms, this means that many provisions relating to compliance, supervision and supervisory bodies have been redesigned. That also provides for this directive. So far, I have also agreed with Mr Krainer that this was necessary and correct. However, there is already a need for us to be vigilant and alert when such directives are adopted, so that they are not made superfluous. This means, for example, that, of course, the owners of financial institutions should not be completely deprived of their ability to design and should not be completely deprived of them. This is one of the reasons why, for example, we are still submitting this amendment to the Financial Committee, which is a provision relating to the design or delivery of the remuneration committee. In concrete terms, a member who has to comply with these very strict provisions, namely, in order to allow the owners of the Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Board's sub-group to make a little more designable. This does not change at all that the provisions are still strict, it does not change at all that there is a high level of supervision, control and therefore compliance. If, as the Committee's managing director said, we really do not follow the guidelines fully in one point, in a provision, then, I think, we can justify this very well. I would therefore ask you to give your consent to this package as we are now presenting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12321	The next item is the speech by Mr Rossmann. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12342	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! As mentioned by my previous speakers, the report by the Financial Committee on this government template concerns the implementation of guidelines from the European Banking Supervision. In principle, they are to be welcomed, as my previous speakers have already said. I also see this as it is because lessons are drawn from the financial crisis. Certain criteria have been introduced, so to speak, which have not been established in credit institutions before. This concerns, for example, the head of the internal control function, but this also concerns compliance procedures and, in particular, the formal independence of members of the Supervisory Board. But what I have to mention – and this is also the reason why I cannot accept this government proposal, and that has already been pointed out by Mr Krainer – is an amendment that we had in the Financial Committee, which has led to a member's failure to fulfil the formal independence criterion in the remuneration committee. Mr Kopf, I cannot see, quite honestly, why, as other countries have done, we are not fully implementing this European guideline of European Banking Supervision. This aberration is something I cannot agree with. That's one reason – but I also have another reason. The other reason is that we also differ from this European Guideline at the Committee on Nomination, namely that a formal independent chairman and a majority of formally independent members are not taken over in this Committee. I also do not see in this case that, in my opinion, a derogation from these guidelines has been made – and this was not justified by the Minister of Finance in the Committee. Therefore: From my side, I do not agree to an overall but welcome government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12380	The next item is the speech by Mr Brückl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12406	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Mr. State Secretary! Appreciate Members of this House! My previous speakers have already explained in detail what it is all about. It is about implementing guidelines from the European Supervisory Authorities European Banking Supervisory Board and European Securities and Markets Supervisory Authority. In this case, the need to specify the extent of the requirements to be applied in Austria, and thus the need to establish legal certainty for those concerned: Legal certainty for banks and credit institutions, but also for supervisory authorities, for financial market supervision. Among other things, the minimum number of independent members is regulated in the Supervisory Boards. My previous speakers pointed out – in particular with regard to the remuneration committee – that the amendment was not satisfied with the amendment. However, I would like to address it accordingly, because it is not only a question of creating strict requirements, because we will create these by means of this law and they are also necessary, but also because it must be so that it is practical and comprehensible for the banks and that, in the future, appropriate supervisory councils can be found which are available to the banks. It is not only – Mr Krainer, you have spoken of certain banks – two large banks in Austria, but a lot of banks – a mass of actually hundreds, thousands of banks – that are affected by this regulation. With this amendment, which we have tabled in committee, we simply avoid excessive administrative burden. We avoid bureaucracy, and thus, in fact, additional costs that would ultimately land with the consumer at the customer's place. We simply don't want these unnecessary costs. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] By the way, I would like to point out that, even if it is a very technocratic law, it actually makes points from the government programme because we, ÖVP and the liberals, as promised Gold Plating, avoid. We therefore avoid that we regulate something exaggerating, superfluous, because it is simply not necessary. That's why it's good that we do this now. I would also like to add the following: The implementation of these guidelines, of course, takes place in consultation with financial market supervision, with supervisory authorities, and also with credit institutions. So: This regulation, which is now on the table, is a good one. It is practical, practical and useful for the economy as well. In this sense, I would like to seek the approval of this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12455	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12477	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This paper deals with the suitability of members in management bodies and holders of key positions in credit institutions. The definition of the formal independence of the Supervisory Board members will be incorporated into the Banking Act, and in parallel the composition of the Supervisory Board adapted to ensure that a minimum number of Supervisory Board members are in fact formally independent. This applies to credit institutions to members of the Audit Committee and to systemic credit institutions, including members of the Risk Committee. That's as good as that. However, we have already heard that the government coalition has tabled an amendment and adopted it in a separate vote in the Committee, which is rather evading and watering down the guidelines of the European Banking Supervisory Board. From our point of view, this is not to be accepted – it has been addressed by us. I also see the real danger that financial market surveillance will not really be able to explain compliance with the guidelines and compliance with the rules for the Committee on Nomination. So: This amendment is watering down, and that is not acceptable to us. From my point of view, any kind of financial policy we pursue must be guided by certain principles. This includes first of all transparency, second of all fairness and, thirdly, a socially fair redistribution. This begins with the closure of tax havens, continues to stop a tax competition which we unfortunately are currently experiencing within the European Union, going through the stopping of loopholes for corporations to avoid tax – legal, semi-legal, illegal – up to the capacity of each state to be able to carry out its tasks financially, namely to offer its citizens a good way of life, a good social infrastructure and also a burden compensation. I would like to point out that the 2030 Agenda, the sustainable development objectives, specifically the Objective 16, provides a very good guide to this. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12513	The next item is Mr Loacker's speech. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12534	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! These changes in the Banking Act and the Investment Fund Act implement the guidelines already mentioned by EBA and ESMA. Our main focus was on the fact that no gold plating takes place here, and as a constructive opposition you also have to say: If none takes place, we can also contribute to the implementation of the guidelines. However, there was also a discussion in the Committee on the need for reform of banking supervision in Austria and the dual structure of the National Bank and financial market surveillance. It is a pleasure to note that the government programme intends to bring these supervisory agents together in an institution. This is urgently necessary. However, I would also like to remind you at this point of how it has ever happened. After all, when, under the black and blue shell, I, banking crises were just over and processed, it was about getting a black and blue access to the supervision, so the FMA was set up. In fact, one wanted to concentrate all of this, but the Constitutional Court did not approve it. So one had to agree with the SPÖ, which was a concern to keep the Privilegienhochburg National Bank also in the banking supervision so that their own people still have a successful outcome. This made the disaster perfect when it was announced: Yes, we have created a great solution – a milestone, it was then called, Grasser and Edlinger – for the Austrian financial market, namely this double structure. So now we have intrudes, double-tracks, red tape, red tape. Costs run out of the row, more than 700 percent of the cost increase since 2000 for banking supervision. There is an urgent need to do something here, but hopefully not again with the party political eyeglasses, as was the case in 2001, but perhaps on reason and on the matter. That would be important.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12574	The next item is Mrs Yildirim. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12595	High house! Dear Seers! The next financial crisis is determined, was the statement of a board of directors of the financial market supervision. I think there is a lot of experience here, not only because the great financial crisis that has led to our economic system is a little more than ten years behind. The reasons for the financial crisis were excessive risks and lack of control, and that is what this is all about. Financial transactions, we know, are at risk. As legislators, we have the obligation to make the best possible use of this risk, thus ultimately protecting consumers. This draft law should contribute to this. We now have the opportunity to create more security, more control. As has already been said, the original government template was very good and was also in line with the guidelines of the European Supervisory Authorities. Only: With the amendment to say that we cannot limit the design of owners so much, I find it very strange because it seems to be not a problem in all other Member States to see any social conflict, but rather, on the contrary, it is recognised that it is important to avoid the conflict of interest. There, in management positions, in control functions, people who are not only professionally and even personally qualified, they should also be courageous to be able to defend themselves against group behaviour, not all in collective nodding and relying on what has been presented to be well-founded and appropriate enough. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen. It is about providing the best possible risk insurance. However, this is not fulfilled by the amendment. That is to say, it is not only about the rights of owners to be able to make free those who are in these management and control bodies, but also about financial stability. We are responsible for ensuring that the banks and the financial sector have security and that the overall social balance, the overall economic balance, is maintained. This will only happen if these guidelines are implemented as recommended. However, that is not being fulfilled. Let me make one more comment: Today we have an EU focus in this Parliament, and I find it all the more sad that European guidelines are so ignored here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12646	The next item is the speech by Mrs Minzig. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12668	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen. Austria's financial market stability has improved significantly in recent years. We have a good financial location, which is also the prerequisite for a competitive economic location. However, the problem with EU directives and guidelines is often that we need to make headlines in national implementation in order to integrate them into our legal system. We have always done so with the SPÖ as a coalition partner that it has ended in Gold Plating – with the unpleasant side appearances of more bureaucracy for citizens, for businesses and institutions. However, we have now agreed with the FPÖ in the Government Convention that we will no longer feed the European bureaucracy samples nationally. We are also doing this with this new legislative act by maintaining, on the one hand, the applicable independence rules for the members of the remuneration committee and, on the other hand, the independence of the chairman and the majority of the members of the nomination committee not in the Austrian legal system. This adjustment would not be in line with the rights of ownership in our Austrian company law. Summa summarum does not have a negative impact on Austrian financial market stability, even the FMA has no problem with that we are not in compliance with the nomination committee, and in addition, we do not impose any more obligations on our domestic banks, which are nevertheless heavily burdened.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12701	Mrs Margreiter has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12722	Madam President. Dear High House! It already has a sense of why the State of Austria has a financial market surveillance, especially in view of the last and already mentioned financial and banking crisis. That is why I do not know why these are now to be weakened against banks and credit institutions. Why can't an independent Supervisory Board or an independent Supervisory Supervisory Board be reviewed or installed by an independent control institution established in our Constitution? What are you afraid of, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties? That this independent position loses independence when an independent body looks over it again? - I don't think so. You don't need to be afraid about this, Plus and Plus won't be a minus. Independence will not be weakened if it is controlled again, at least not if you have nothing to hide. One can only gain in order, legality and perceptibility by the state and its citizens. Mr Brückl of the FPÖ, you argue that with alleged administrative simplification. I see this clearly as a circumvention of control, and it is not overwhelming if all EU countries want to take over it. Quite clear I think that this is another small contribution to weakening the state and its citizens step by step in favour of banks and credit institutions, because you want to achieve with your amendment – and that has already been addressed – that the banks do not have to be looked at. It seems to me that, according to the new client policy of this government, a government of the rich, the powerful and, as we now have to take note of, also banks and credit institutions. What would the citizens have of this proposal for amendment? - Nothing, nothing. Just as little as the citizens have of the profit-shift of the corporations and their tax avoidance that this government is aware of. The SPÖ's request – we finally wanted to take up the fight against tax fraud – has been postponed again last week. The workers in this country cannot choose whether they have to pay taxes and whether the state can look at them for them, whether they want them or not. Then again I remember the old saying: Whoever pays, makes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12765	The next item is the report by Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12786	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The amendments to the Banking Act and the Investment Fund Act now implement appropriate guidelines from the European Banking Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority. The aim of this law is to create legal certainty for the supervisory authorities and also for the credit institutions concerned. There are some organisational requirements for credit institutions, which are now also defined accordingly, for example as regards the composition of the Audit Committee or the Risk Committee or compliance provisions. The definition of formal independence for Supervisory Board members is also regulated accordingly, and with regard to the composition of the Supervisory Board, a minimum number of formally independent members of the Supervisory Board is provided for. However, there is the possibility of a licence and stricter criteria only for banks over EUR 5 billion in the balance sheet. I think that's important. Finally, we do not want any further restriction on ownership and ownership in the Committee on Nomination. On this issue, of course, we are different from the SPÖ and also from the rest of the greens who want to restrict these property rights accordingly. We want to strengthen property and not limit it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] All in all, we are creating, by this law, the implementation of European regulations, but at the same time, provisions that are practical. That is why I believe you should all agree to this bill. However, I should like to make the following amendment, which is not far-reaching in content – it is about correcting a editorial error, correcting two reference errors and reflecting a supplement also in the derogation and in the provision for entry into force – but very many paragraphs are affected. I would therefore ask for some patience if I read this request now: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope it's clear and you agree to the law. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[13:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12961	The application has been properly filed and is under negotiation. I call Mr Jarolim. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e12986	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! It has already been admitted in today's debate by the speakers of the government parties that the implementation is not EBA-compliant, which actually surprises me, but at least it has not been tried to speak around, but we now know that the requirement is not being fulfilled at all. [[Call the FPÖ: That's good!]] The reason why it is not fulfilled is obviously that you do not give controls the importance they should actually give them; but that would be important, especially as banks are concerned, because banks obviously manage a lot of capital, including those of smaller savers. It would therefore be particularly important to implement these transparency provisions and to exercise the appropriate responsibility. What's this about? – It is essentially about the following: You probably all know the Causa Meinl; Mr Krainer keeps reporting on this. Mr. Meinl was on the board of directors of the Meinl-Bank and did some things there that did not like the supervision at all. He was therefore offered out of this position and then quickly entered into the office of the Supervisory Board chief, who, of course, has a very strong role in a bank, in a stock company. So it certainly wasn't the supervisory authority's intention to leave it there more or less. By the way, he has deserved the same as before as the board of directors – should be, but this shows how much has been tried to create a condition that the authority did not really want at all by the intention of the scheme. Similar things are happening here now: We actually intended to agree. We had a wide-ranging discussion at the last committee meeting about the fact that there are now longer waiting times when, for example, managing directors, executives from management functions or auditors come into control bodies. – All of this has now been left to us by your changes in such a way that we cannot agree with it. I somehow regret this, because in the end, the people who stay on the track, among other things, are the small savers – and, of course, the big investors, who now have a system that is not as transparent, are not as good as it could have been. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13032	The next item is the speech by Mr Lindinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13054	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! High house! We are discussing today the changes to the Banking Act and the Investment Fund Act. These new laws are primarily used to make necessary adjustments. The new guidelines of the European Banking Supervisory Board and the European Securities and Markets Authority to assess the suitability of members of the Executive Board and key function holders are essential. My previous speakers have already explained the relevant key points. It is important to me to stress that laws that we decide here – in this case these new laws – or also practical – or, as we say in Upper Austria: with the corresponding house mind, can be implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] That is precisely why we did not use so-called Gold Plating when ordering control bodies, but rather designed the law in such a way that all credit institutions of different sizes can implement it realistically. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] With realistic implementation, I also mean the necessary preparation phase. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] So this law does not enter into force with 1. ==References====External links==* Official website January 2019 – as stated in my colleague's amendment – shall enter into force. Laws and, above all, these new laws ensure the strictest controls, but with the necessary housekeeping ==References== It is precisely with this house mind that laws will be implemented in Austria in the future. That is what this Federal Government stands for, for which we stand as a People's Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13108	Next, the Secretary of State spoke. Please, Mr Fuchs.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13129	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Values Advisors! A comment on Mrs Margreiter's speech: In Austria, no one can choose whether to pay taxes here or not. [[Abg. Plessl: This is not the case with large corporations!]] We have a functioning financial management and we also have a corresponding legal system. [[Abg. Plessl: No, that's not true! That's not the case with big corporations!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] In addition, the following is said: If it were so that one could choose in Austria whether to pay tax or not, then the SPÖ Group would also have a significant part to play in it. They had placed the Chancellor for many, many years, and had watched this without harm. – So much for Member Margreiter. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The aim of this draft law is to specify the extent to which the guidelines in the Banking Act and the Investment Fund Act will apply in the future in Austria in order to ensure the necessary legal certainty for the supervisory authorities and the credit institutions concerned. The aim of this federal government is not – and so is the government programme – to implement EU directives and guidelines at 100 percent. Where there are voting rights, these will of course be exercised in the sense of a discharge of entrepreneurs, in the sense of reducing the administrative burden accordingly, in order to prevent us from running Gold Plating here. Provisions concerning the independence of the Chairman and the majority of the members of the Nomination Committee, which are also contained in these Guidelines, are expressly not incorporated into the Austrian legal system and therefore remain inapplicable as this would have led to conflicts with Austrian company law, in particular with regard to the rights of participation of owners. I therefore also consider the amendment tabled by the Financial Committee to be particularly worth mentioning and positive, as set out in § 28a para. 5c Banking Act allows a license from the second independent Supervisory Board member as regards the formal need for independence. The restriction that this procedure can only be carried out from the second independent member keeps the administrative burden low and at the same time prevents gold plating. Under this federal government, Gold Plating belongs to the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13195	Mr Löger, Federal Minister, spoke next time. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13217	Madam President. High house! Dear guests on the gallery and also at home in front of the screens! Before I go into the current topic, allow me – I am not a hundred percent ensure that the Rules of Procedure allow them to comment personally on the last item on the agenda. As this item on the agenda falls under the responsibility of Josef Moser, I have decided to add my opinion to this in the course of my current remarks. I agree that it is time to make an excuse to Parliament from my side. I am aware that, as Minister of Finance, I am responsible for the fact that there was not only a zeal, but obviously an outrage in my ministry, when, as part of a legislative process on the General Data Protection Regulation, one also introduced applications or proposals that did not comply with that matter. However, I also recognise – and I believe this has become clear from the debate – that Parliament is working, including within the Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] That is why I also believe that it will be necessary, with even more emphasis on our part, to make sure that we do not continue to strip you. I therefore apologize to all the Members of the House for what has unfortunately happened in the Ministry of Finance. [[I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] I am all the more willing to address the current debate now. I think it has been clarified so far as it is concerned. Yes, we in the Financial Committee have also discussed the extent to which this draft law is now in line with what everyone expects. I would just like to add the following: If we also create the legal bases to follow a European guideline here, we do so as we have done in the government programme and as a government: We ensure that we do not formulate additional requirements in oversized form via Gold Plating. That's what we did. What we also trust – even in coordination with the supervisory authorities in Austria – is that we are taking a step further in this proposal. Yes, we also have the courage to formulate, here, a legal system which is in line with Austrian legislation within the meaning of company law, but also takes into account the proportionality of Austrian banking. As some Members have put it, we can ensure that what you want to decide here as a legal basis – hopefully all the representatives of this House together – is something that meets not only the requirements of Europe but also the situation of Austria. We also stand by this, and we also have this courage as a new government. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It has also been mentioned here that we may be setting a bad example within Europe. I can tell you that this legal certainty, which we are creating in Austria with this new legal situation, will not be implemented in this way in all the countries of Europe. For example, Germany has decided to delegate responsibility to financial market supervision, BaFin, in Germany. This allows the BaFin to act quite flexibly. There is legal certainty in Austria. It is also interesting that BaFin's opinion on these guidelines, which I would like to quote. The BaFin holds: ‘It considers in particular the new requirements for the formal independence of supervisory and administrative councils to be too far-reaching without a clear added value. BaFin shall not implement the guidelines in this point.’; To that end, I say: Austria is thus exemplary – also compared to Germany. We create legal certainty. We agree not to overload Gold Plating, and we are brave enough to adopt appropriate and proper laws here for Austria. I invite you once again to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13292	Thank you, Minister. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore vote on the draft law in 136 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion for an amendment. I therefore begin by voting on the parts affected by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment on Articles 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign of confirmation. - That's the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. - That's the majority. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. [[14:00:32]] 4. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the flows of funds in the health sector – Series Bund 2017/10 (III-16/73 d.B.) 5. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on the Federal Office for Safety in Health and AGES Medical Market Supervision – BUND 2017/59 series (III-64/76 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13372	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Fichtinger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13405	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear visitors to the gallery and love Watch the TV screens! The Court of Auditors, founded in 1761 by Empress Maria Theresia, repeatedly provides the public hand with proposals and examines not only federal institutions but also countries and municipalities. I would also like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors and her colleagues for their responsible work, which they are doing over and over again, even though they are not always very happy, especially outside. But now on the subject: The report we are considering on the review of the medium-sized health services reflects the year 2014. The audit per se took place from July 2015 to December 2015 and aimed at providing an overview of the links in the financing of health services. In general, the health system in Austria is divided into a variety of actors at the federal, country and local level. It has already been pointed out in previous reports that it was necessary to improve the management of the Austrian health system. Of course, the different time-limits of federal and social security funds, the different account plans, inconspicuous breakdowns and strong interdependencies made the review more difficult. For the presentation of all the flows, the Court of Auditors covered more than 60 actors, which were divided into health services. After this breakdown, about 17.8 billion euros were spent on the hospitals, around 4.7 billion euros on established doctors and doctors, about 3.5 billion euros on cures and cures, and about 520 million euros on rescue, which is a very important point for all of us. About 800 million euros were spent on other health services, many of them in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, of course it is our goal to continue to focus on people, patients. However, it is independent that better cooperation between all parties will lead to greater transparency and that a harmonised accounting system, as requested by the Court of Auditors, will also contribute to simplification and will facilitate the overall management of payment flows. We have discussed this point in detail in the Committee, the expert opinions of Director-General Probst and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Biach and the explanations and some discussions. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are on the right track, although we all know that in the future there is still a lot to do. As a member of the Health Committee, I can also say that the subject will continue to concern us. Together with the Minister for Health, a good plan will be drawn up for the benefit of the Austrian population. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13448	Next, I give the floor to Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13469	Madam President of the National Council! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear colleagues! My Dear Ones Ladies and Gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! My speech relates to TOP 4, the Court of Auditors' report on health services – a very complex issue, which the Court of Auditors has also noted here. This is a pilot project. A review has taken place for the period 2014 from July 2015 to December 2015. I hope, Madam President, that there will be a continuation because, at the time, the health reform was implemented in 2013 and we are to build on the reforms that were set up at the time. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have also heard that the division of competences between the federal government, social security bodies, countries and municipalities is very complex. I would like to remind you of a number of things that are very difficult to deal with: 3.1 billion euros have been made available for health and health services alone. The interesting thing about this is that the federal states had different access. Here, Madam President, it would be very correct and important to carry out more reviews together with the national accounting authorities in order to see the burden in the municipalities. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The objectives relating to the flow of funds should be transparent, and this was also unanimously required in the Committee. The processing of the flows of funds should not lead to a breakdown of social security funds, as the Federal Minister had thought, but to a further development. This is access from social democracy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just a short time ago, we saw that AUVA had been thought of by the responsible Minister for Health. The Federal Government is now rowing back in order not to have to carry out the announced reduction of social security funds and the destruction of AUVA. We want a uniform health system in which, of course, there is also a corresponding level of performance. It is about the well-being of people here in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, one last thing: The Minister of Health has very difficult cases to deal with. In the case of non-smoker protection, it was not very convincing, when the emergency aid was removed, it did not act very happily, and now the topic of AUVA is still coming, in which it does not act very happily. That's where I ask myself the question: How long, Mr. Federal Chancellor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, do you want to stick to this Minister of Health and hope that she will bring together something positive? You do not save in the system, but you save on people – this is what you see at AUVA. They have created a problem with AUVA, which is still unresolved; it is EUR 500 million to save and they want to give back to employers. This is simply not possible if you look at the administrative costs of 85 million euros alone. That is why it would be more useful for the Federal Minister to see that all districts are properly supplied with a first supply unit for the treatment of strokes and heart attacks. This would be very important, even for my district of Gänserndorf, where there is no such thing until now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13533	The next item is Mrs Povysil. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13554	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in plenary, at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen, who are following the debate on the Internet or in other media! We appreciate our Minister of Health, ladies and gentlemen. She just started to reform. [[Abg. Plessl: But not very happy!]] It will remain for us long and intensive. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the SPÖ: This is a threat!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Money governs the world – that's not a new saying, not a special intellectual saying, but a very effective one. Financial flows, properly managed, controlled, designed and secure systems. Financial flows, properly managed, prevent counter-working structures and self-utilised make-up structures. Efficient funding, ladies and gentlemen, is efficient control. The citizen who employs his tax contributions to the health system would like to be fully cared for in the event of illness. Whoever pays is ultimately insignificant. The essential thing is that the tax money comes completely from the insured person. The Court of Auditors' report on medium-sized health services is being discussed today, and we have already heard it. The examination took place in 2015 and is based on 2014. That is, the actuality leaves a little to be desired. But that's not the baffling thing. The most disturbing thing is that since the last federal health reform in 2013 nothing has changed. The target orientation, which was introduced, has not really produced essential things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] There is still a complete confusion in the financial flows. They're inconspicuous, they're branched, they're split up. Furthermore, insured and taxpayers drive carousel with about 60 players. The graphic representation of these cash flows is known to you. She was even present in the background in a “ZIB 2” discussion round. That means she's known to all of us. It has been known to me since 2000 – that is, in the meantime for 18 years – essentially unchanged. What does the Court of Auditors now criticise this confusion of competence? – On the one hand, split competences between the federal government, countries, municipalities and, on the other hand, non-comprehensible flows of money – as said by 60 actors – and on the other hand, data that cannot be understood in the absence of uniform accounting systems. It also criticises the social security schemes which cannot even present a single plan of accounts, or the national health funds, which also lack a uniform approach in their financial structure. But this is about a lot of money, ladies and gentlemen. After all, it is over 27 billion euros that we should use efficiently for our health system. These are the shortcomings committed by the Court of Auditors in theory, but also in practice. But it is also important: What does that mean for our system? What does that mean for the patient? Where do we see that? The fact is that in our system, too many patients are being treated in the hospitals, and the increasingly worsening care in the settled area. We have too few doctors in the settled area. Another fact is the unresolved problem of overfilling our hospital hospitals. We're waiting for hours in hospital hospitals. The increasing rejection of the insurance doctors' cash contracts is also a fact, there are already more electoral doctors than cash-contract doctors, including the increasing burden on patients. [[Abg. Stäger:... remove!]] This is precisely due to the lack of funding and control function of our health system, as it stands at present. We have – and that is the bad thing again – all instruments to change this, but there has so far been no political power and political courage. This Court of Auditors report is a clear, independent, transparent and merciless disclosure of the misdevelopment of our health system. Thank you very much to the President for the detailed, good and precise work. You can't even talk about it anymore, it says black on what's going on. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Straster.]] If we unravel the problem of competence, we unify where it is useful, we regulate regionally where there is a demand for confidence, we set necessary reforms where organisational structures and financial flows have long since no longer conformed to our modern health system! You will certainly agree that at the heart of all of these efforts of the patient with his complaints and with his challenges and demands on our health system. [[Abg. Plessl: But not with self-retaining!]] I hope that you will all work with us on these innovations and on these reforms.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13652	The next item is Mrs Griss. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13673	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors discussed a total of 29 reports at its meetings in April and May. This report, which my three previous speakers have just mentioned – the report on the medium-sized health flows – is a report that I too want to address. This is not a coincidence, because the report draws a moral picture of Austrian administration – unfortunately, one must say –: on the one hand, we have a problem of competence – we have the federal government, countries, municipalities and social security companies that speak in the health system. But that's not enough. On the other hand, it has not succeeded in unifying the settlement between these different carriers, between the different financiers as well. My previous speakers have already mentioned this: no uniform plan of accounts, no targeted rules, no harmonisation with the accounting system of the federal government. Now there is already some time for the report, and in fact one would think that we are immediately concerned with resolving these shortcomings. One will not be able to fix the distribution of competence so quickly, but in the case of these administrative obstacles, which one has added here – uneven account plans, you have heard this, not sufficient regulations, no harmonisation – it would not have been an art piece to balance it much earlier. It is, however, even if we look at the Court of Auditors' reports, this point of lack of transparency, lack of clarity, which is something we must always note. It might be said that this may not happen by chance. In the dark it's good to munk – or how much you want to express it. At any rate, there is little interest in making such conditions and circumstances perfectly clear. A second point, a second one, which you see again and again, when you look at the reports, is that the consequences of a legal regulation either are not clearly thought-out or are not sincerely presented. One example of this is the report on the Federal Office for Safety in Health and Ages Medical Market Supervision, where it seems that one has not considered how this should ultimately be financed, who should then actually carry this medical product levy. That is to say, the Court of Auditors repeatedly points to fundamental shortcomings in its reports. In fact, it should be concluded that the Court of Auditors is a natural ally of an evidence-based policy. The fact that policy should be evidence-based that it is based on facts should not be disputed. A second very important task of the Court of Auditors is to point out the impact of a measure and to reveal in its reports the impact of various legal measures. We heard the representative of the European Court of Auditors at the last committee meeting. It was truly impressive to learn how the European Court of Auditors will do this in the next few years, which the Austrian Court of Auditors has long been doing to see exactly how the use of funds will affect. The examples brought to this – motorways that end nowhere, or the expansion of container ports in the Adriatic with European funds to compete for Chinese container ships – were impressive. There you can see how important this task is. The Court of Auditors is therefore an ally for a responsible policy. Only a responsible policy will also acquire people's trust, and without confidence in politics, there can be no acceptance or, ultimately, no successful governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13724	Next item is the report by Mr Kolba. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13746	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, they stayed in the gallery and also in front of the television screens! Yes, I can basically only confirm and repeat my previous speakers: This Court of Auditors report clearly states: The complex and opaque structure of funding in health care due to various competences for federal, social and local authorities leads to the failure to understand the currents of payments. That is exactly what would be essential if we were to be able to make reforms. I can add another quote. Mackie Messer says: “And you see those in the light / those in the dark you don’t see.” That is to say, this financing structure and this transparency are, in fact, preventing a reform that is urgently needed. Two things must be taken into account in this reform and I warn against taking them into account: From the point of view of patients, it is important that you can expect the same performance throughout Austria, no matter what the carrier is called. It is unbearable if cancers get medications in which one federal country is authorized, in the other hand not. This cannot be done, it must be seen as the main focus of a reform. The second is that we from the Pilz list do not want to privatise the health system. We will also look very closely at how much wealth lies in social security schemes, and it should be proposed that a bar should come out of this To provide self-management for the budget. We will also look at the government very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13782	Mrs Kirchbaumer is speaking next time. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13803	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! In 2016, the Court of Auditors reviewed the Federal Office for Health Safety and the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety as regards the structure of pharmaceuticals, medical devices and inspection and its funding in 2010 to 2015. The examination period comprises the years 2010 to 2015. The Court of Auditors criticised the fact that the division of tasks between the Federal Office for Safety in Health, BASG, and the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety, Ages, was very unclear. Thus, the staff of the Ages carried out the tasks of the BASG, but this remained the contact for the applicants. In addition, according to the Court of Auditors, the Federal Ministry of Health and Women continued to have a significant impact on both operational and economic decisions. Furthermore, the BASG did not provide sufficient financial support for the Ages Medical Market Supervision. In particular, tasks for which no fees could be charged were not sufficiently financially supported during the investigation period. This led to the 2013 Ages making a loss of €5.28 million. Rehabilitation measures were only launched as a result of these alarming developments. In a total of 18 recommendations, the Court stressed the need to ensure a strict separation between the crucial function, that is to say the BASG, and the controlling function, that is to say the Ministry of Health. In addition, the Ages will identify strategic knowledge targets for the field of medical market surveillance and make better use of possible synergies with other Ages sub-areas. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13834	The next item is the speech by Mr Einwallner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13855	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! In my speech, I also refer to item 5, i.e. the audit of the Federal Office for Safety in Health and the Ages Medical Market Supervisory. It is true that there is some criticism in this Court of Auditors report, but it is also seen that this exclusion has been successful and is also well accepted. It is also a small success story that has been done through this breakdown. This can be seen from several factors; one more essential is that the stagnation of the pending procedures has been significantly reduced. Another factor is the economic development of the Ages, which we discussed in detail in the Committee, is that there is a positive turnaround. And last but not least. the structural measures, the organisational and internal measures. However, the year 2013 should actually stimulate us to think, because that was the year of crisis of the Ages and must be called as such. It is therefore crucial and important that long-term funding of the Ages is ensured. At present, it is the case that you jump from one term to another. The Ages is financed by a supplement to the chamber cover for pharmacists, which was actually fixed until 2018 and has now expired. Although Mrs. Minister has explained to us in the Committee that it will continue until 2022, the pharmacists tell me that there are no such discussions yet. So this is an open point, and this also shows a bit of how our Minister of Health is addressing these issues: by making announcements in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which in reality is not voting at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So it needs sustainable funding. And if you listen to the representatives of the government parties, how they put themselves massively and demonstrationally behind the woman minister and articulate it, it almost reminds you of a football coach who is just about to leave. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13900	The next speaker was Mr Kainz. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13922	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens at home! For the present report, which relates to the year 2014, the Court of Auditors devoted itself from July to December 2015 to the flows of funds in health care. The aim of the report was to provide an overview of all links in the financing of health services and to present the flows of funds. Significant for the financing of the Austrian health system is the branching of payment flows across several institutions and institutions. The legislation provides for a division of competences on federal, social and local authorities. In spite of the health reform of the then government in 2013, which should have contributed, among other things, to the order of the fragmented competence situation, to around 27.4 billion euros, divided into more than 60 different paying and receiving posts. The flows of funds were partly different from one institution to another due to different periods of demarcation. In the case of transfers between the Federal Government and the social security institutions, different time limits were applied so that expenses and incomes of different levels were taken into account. In addition, there was a lack of a uniform plan of accounts for social security institutions, and there was a lack of comprehensible rules for the breakdowns. All of this led to uneven figures in different billing systems of social security institutions, the federal government, the Länder and the municipalities and to a difficult balance between expenses and income. It is like a red thread through the entire report that the funding of our domestic health system is simply unclear, branched and split. We must therefore reform our accounting system, because only then can we ensure effective representations of all the resources in the health care sector and control whether the social security companies are working cleanly. Ladies and gentlemen, let us jointly eliminate the chaos in the field of medium-sized health care and create clear structures! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13961	The next item is the speech by Mr Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e13982	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. High house! The fragmentation of Austrian health care and its financial flows is well-known, I say, and the Court of Auditors also lists 60 players and 400 financial flows. This has not changed since the Health Reform 2013 either, and the competent minister has already explained to us that the great objective of financing from a single source will not at least be addressed during this legislative period. There is no coordination of accounting logic between federal government, national health funds and social security funds. In the case of social security funds, the single account plan is already missing – it has been noted earlier. Now I'm wondering, What do the hundreds of employees in the main association do? What good are they if they don't even put it together, that all the cash registers reflect their costs according to a uniform logic – that can't be true! – and make that uniformly transparent? From the transparency one has to praise the Vienna cash register, which is otherwise really bad, because it places at least data on the Internet, which the insured person can retrieve and with which he can make an approximate picture. Of course, one has to apply this masking tactic to social security, because somehow one wants to have low administrative costs at the end. In order to do so, every pencil that has once been touched by a medically trained person is recorded as a medical service, and then it is no longer administrative costs. This is how this a-the-Nase re-transduction works for the public in respect of the insured persons who are forced to be collected. It is an evidence of poverty that this federal government is already failing to reform social security, where it should first start. Perhaps a government which does not even bring together a standardised accounting system, not even a common IT system for social security institutions, should not start with the merger of institutions, but rather take it a little slower. The national health funds are the next chapter, they are not even mentioned by the government in the course of the many reform announcements. So you can imagine that nothing will happen either. Each national health fund does what it wants, lacks uniform rules on the form and breakdown of the annual accounts, and from the outset it is also impossible to achieve a meaningful benchmarking and a comparison of the various data. The sadness of this chaos in health financing is that citizens have to finance it, that this money is missing in the care at the end of the day, and that therefore there are scarcity in the drug sector, that there are shortages in medical care and the like. In order for something to change at last, I put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[14:35]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14099	The request just read is properly filed and is under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mrs Becher. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14123	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! My contribution is also concerned with the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety. The examination period was indeed from 2010 to 2015 and was also examined from 2006 onwards, which is the date of the exclusion of pharmaceuticals, medical devices and inspection. From 2012 onwards, the Ages Medical Market Supervisory Office built a cost-bearing account that could not be reduced until 2015, although there was also a significant end in this period of more than EUR 5 million. The rehabilitation measures, which have been very positive and, finally, only made up more than EUR 70 000, have already been mentioned. In economic terms, the reform process has worked very well. The Ages is an excellent farm located in my constituency, the Danube city. It plays an important role in the use of natural active substances. Here too THC, the active substance of the hemp, is grown for the medical field. There is its own legal basis, which allows the Ages to produce cannabis for medicinal products, of course under private contracts and on a good operating basis, so that no means of taxation apply. In the European context, the Ages compete in the production of cannabis with other producers and importers in both economic and qualitative terms. This shows that the Ages are particularly successful in this area. It will, of course, be provided by the Ministry of Health and by the representatives of the United Nations, which are the audit authority and also have access to the production site. Unfortunately, Austria is not one of the leaders in the medical application of THC internationally, but the good work of the Ages ensures that we are in the good middle field. In this sense, I would like to thank the highly qualified staff very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14168	Mrs Nussbaum's next speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14190	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the TV screens! I would also like to address the report on medium-sized health flows. We see in this report that there again the extensive activities of accident insurance are highlighted. In 2015, for example, the revenues from the contribution payments in this area amounted to just over EUR 1.5 billion. The Minister of Health now demands a reduction of 500 million euros from AUVA. However, a reduction of 500 million euros means massive reductions at the expense of the insured. This means that patients will have to use the credit card instead of the e-card in the future. Our way is definitely not that. We will fight for our successful social security system. In view of the 200 000 signatures that have been handed over, we have seen that the population is very much in favour of our successful social security system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors' report rightly notes that accident insurance has replaced employers' liability insurance and therefore the contributions must be paid exclusively by employers. In reality, this is the most favourable insurance for companies that exist. On average, about 26 euros per employee are payable. In addition, it must be pointed out that the contribution by 1. It was already reduced from 1.4 per cent to 1.3 per cent on July 20, 2014. I am already aware of why the current government has to give gifts to employers. Sebastian Kurzstands Mr Pierer and other large donors in the election campaign in debt and revancs themselves with Mr Pierer re-entering his donation in about nine months. [[Abg. Haubner: Where did you get this?]] In connection with social security, you always bring propaganda, there are inefficiencys. The truth is, the health insurance companies achieved a surplus of 48 million euros in 2017. The head of the main association, Alexander Biach, who is not necessarily a social democrat, takes the good figures back to the health reform of the then SPÖ government under Alois Stöger. He says that the savings in the administration exceeded all expectations. Whether you want to do it or not, we are talking about a highly efficient system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Also, the income of health insurance – which is also highlighted by the report – is almost 89 percent of the contributions received by the insurers themselves. The rest, which is shot by the federal government, is used for the unemployed, for people who are subject to the provision of war victims, as well as for minimum security professionals and asylum seekers in basic care. That's where you want to save, again with the poorest of society? – They destroy a system that works perfectly. [[Abg. Haubner: Ah!]] You just want to give your big donors a gift again. That's an unworthy acting, stop it at last! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14254	The next item is the speech by Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14276	Estimated Presidents! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Theoretically, all funding in health care could be quite simple: If you get sick, you go to the doctor, to the doctor, and the health insurance you are insured with and pay is the cost. However, since there are doctors not only in the hospital, but also in the established area, because it concerns hospitals and the financing of physiotherapy and care, there are of course several carriers who are concerned with financing the health system. On the one hand, these are the big players, that is social security, then there are the countries and the municipalities and, of course, the federal government. Now you could ask if you can't make it any easier. In total – and that was, I believe, the big throw in the health reform – one has not been waiting for the all-healing remedy of a state reform, but has been said very pragmatically: Let us look at the health reform, that the players taking over the funding work together and think about how to plan the best possible supply! If one can now take a short balance - as shown in the Court of Auditors' report - then it is the balance sheet that the federal states and the insurance partners who make it successful can save costs and thereby improve the quality for patients, and those who do not make it so good and not efficient do not have these effects. That is why I think it is our task to stick to this health reform together. I should just like to make one central point in all the debate on reform, including the social security structures that we are now holding in Austria. The question is always: How does this benefit patients in Austria? This is the central point that we should be discussing over and over again. Not the number of insurance companies is central, but it is the concrete impact on the people who need insurance. Yes, there are many areas where we can get better, where we should be more effective and efficient, but in total, these are sustainable reforms that come to people. That is why we should say clearly: From Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler, no matter in which country you are, no matter what profession you have, whether electricians in Klagenfurt or state officials somewhere in Vorarlberg, every person in Austria has a right to the same high-quality health services. That's the central task. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we look at the debate on social security: Is there ever talk about the benefits? Do we ever talk specifically about how the situation improves for patients? All of this does not happen in the debate at all. It is about heads, technical structural debates, but never about how to improve the situation of patients. One example of this is the sad debate on accident insurance. This is about people who are seriously ill after accidents at work. We are not talking about how we can improve prevention, rehabilitation and care; all this does not matter. No, you take half a billion euros out there and give the whole thing to some large corporations. This may also be the joy of the Economic Federation, but the only ones who are really happy are the big donors of Sebastian Kurz. They're all cheering up and saying, This short is a great guy, who's left, that's why we got into the bag before the election! [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] All the money's coming back now! – This is incredible, the corporations save money at the expense of the working people in that country. [[Abg. Haubner: Who pays the whole thing?]] That is why we can only remember one thing in all the debates: Whenever short and tight talk about saving in the system, you can be quite sure in Austria that the care for the patients is just nothing better.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14330	Next item is the report by Mrs Kraker, President of the Court of Auditors. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14352	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you very much for devoting so much to the Court of Auditors' reports today. There are 38 reports on the agenda. I must say, of course, that I very much welcome the intention of the National Council, which it is clear that in the future it will be possible to deal with the Court of Auditors' reports more closely in the near future, and that I think that this is a goal, because it is a question of making use of the recommendations made in our reports and of making appropriate use of them so that they can also be implemented. I would like to thank you for the excellent words that have been found on this Court of Auditors report, which was particularly famous for its image. I believe that it is really the task of the Court of Auditors to contribute to the policy-making process, to give you the basics and understanding of responsibilities and financial flows, so that you can draw the right conclusions for your reform projects. I am convinced that it is often easier to do this togetherness, even though we are trying very hard, and it is often difficult to draw the right conclusions in a complex system. However, this cannot prevent one from doing so and must not prevent one from making reforms and actually trying to implement them. As far as the report on the medium-sized health flows is concerned, it is the case that in 2016, for example, health expenditure amounted to around 36 billion euros. Three-quarters of these expenditure has been publicly borne and publicly financed. This funding is unclear, branched and split up. It is because there are just these many actors, the players at the level of the federal government, then, of course, the social security funds, at the level of the countries and the municipalities. The competences are divided, as they are divided according to the federal constitution, that the legislation and enforcement in the field of health care is federal. In the field of hospitals and health facilities there is a principle of legislative competence and for this there are implementing laws, the execution is with the countries. In the field of social security, the legislative competence lies with the federal government and enforcement is with the social security institutions. In order to organise this, there are 15a agreements to agree on the organisation and financing of health care, to distribute the tasks properly and to see how one can contribute to a proper target control in health care. Mid-streams at national level naturally affect hospitals. We checked this, showed the links and wanted to give you an overview. The inventory shows that despite the Health Reform 2013 the fragmentation of responsibilities was maintained and therefore of course also the management of these funding flows in the health care system was difficult. So it remains on your agenda to simplify that. We did not succeed in providing a transparent overview of the medium-sized flows in the health system in Austria. The Court of Auditors' main criticism refers to more or less simple things that must also be enforced. This means that the prerequisites for a combined presentation of the flow of funds are, first, the reforms in the accounting system. In the area of social security, this is harmonisation with the federal accounting system with uniform account plans, with time limits. In the field of the Land Health Fund, it is also about the countries making what they have promised, namely, the rules on settlement uniform and comparable settlement rules enforceable. I can only agree with all the speakers. The Court of Auditors is also very concerned about the benefits of citizens in its audit focus. How can public health benefits be best matched? Social insurance is a player in this health system. There are, of course, also the medical chambers, and there are also the countries, and everything must be poured into an overall concept and must be in line with each other. As far as the report on Ages Medical Market Supervision is concerned, we have seen improvements after the difficult year 2013. There is now a positive development. There is also EU-wide recognition of activity. However, it is important to us that we finance the tasks of market surveillance on a sustainable basis. In this respect, there was a temporary extension of this financing in the budget accompanying law. But we can think about how to solve this task, and there is a recommendation from the Court of Auditors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14410	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-16 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loacker, colleagues and colleagues, on ‘Recommendations (Bund 2017/10) to implement ‘medial flows’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That's the minority. The request has not been accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-64 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are ready to take note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[14:53:54]] 6. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on needs-oriented minimum assurance in Vienna – BUND 2017/32 series (III-32/74 d.b.) 7. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on disability pension New – BUND 2017/33 (III-33/75 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14498	We now come to points 6 and 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Gahr is now on the floor. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14526	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! A special greeting goes to an economic delegation from Gmünd, who attends this debate today. [[General condolences.]] The Court of Auditors has reviewed the need-oriented minimum security, and the President has just carried out, there are reports which are included in the legislation here. This report on needs-oriented minimum security in the city of Vienna, I believe, is an important and indispensable contribution to reforming the minimum level of security in Austria, to re-establishing it, to make it more transparent and just. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors has examined a total of six institutions involved in 2011 to 2015 and has clearly come to a conclusion. The “Kurier” The Court of Auditors has made a total of 65 recommendations, and I believe that not all exorbitant can be found here. However, the Court of Auditors has pointed out quite clearly that control has failed absolutely, that many of the files have not been examined, that the evidence has failed, and that the minimum security has occasionally been paid 14 times to long-term unemployed and pensioners. There is quite a potential to improve the whole, even with regard to the requirement of proof, if you think that people have been granted or promoted, who have not been able to present photo IDs and so on at all. Overall, one thing has been quite clear, namely that the city of Vienna has applied a wide range of criteria. It was found that housing communities were more supported than communities. There were no clear and comprehensible criteria for disbursement. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This Court of Auditors report – and here the Court of Auditors gives us a clear mandate – clearly states: We need to harmonise the minimum level of security in Austria, we need to reform the minimum level of security in Austria. We need a system that makes cover possible. The Wifo has strongly recommended that we go from cash benefits to benefits in kind so that the funds are used in a targeted and appropriate manner. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In addition to the services for living, housing, rental and health care, there were a number of benefits such as monthly tickets for the Vienna lines, the exemption from the broadcasting fee and the eco-electric fee and many other small things; the whole was simply not limited to the top. That is why, I believe, it is very important that there has been a task force that has made the initial analysis in this regard. We have received real information from Mr Peter Stanzl in the Committee on the Court of Auditors - I should like to mention this positively here - but we also need to note that there is a need to place minimum protection on new legs. It is to be hoped that the minimum security will also be handled for the city of Vienna in such a way that they can be classified in a Federal comparison, even if there and there the conditions are different. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] I wish that there would be a follow-up test as soon as possible and that there would be a uniform minimum guarantee for Austria as soon as possible, with which we address specific things, support people who need help, but do not share money with the foundry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14598	Mrs Greiner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14624	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gahr, I am pleased that the ÖVP is now also closed for a uniform minimum guarantee. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] For this report, the performance itself has been checked, the resolution, the achievement of the goal. Accompanying measures, such as labour market policies, have also been analysed. I am referring to three criticisms from the Court of Auditors. He criticized the control, as there would be improvement potential and air up. The recommendation was to introduce a systematic and standardised documentation. The interaction between minimum security and labour market services could also be better. A third point is that the reintegration rate should be higher. On the controls: We had visited the head of the Vienna City Task Force for minimum security and he informed us as follows: A third of the recommended measures have already been implemented, i.e. in the context of monitoring that they have been optimised. The controls have been intensified, and employees who are already highly qualified have been trained. To the AMS: From this summer there will be a weekly information and data balance with the labour market service, which is also important when it comes to possible sanctions. That is to say, the sanctions mechanisms have also been tightened. For reintegration: I can refer to the new minimum insurance law in Vienna, which has been in force since February of this year. It provides for stronger incentives to take up work and has focused on young people up to the age of 25, because there have been relatively many people involved. Let us stay at the same time as the reintegration: What is needed in order to get people away from the minimum level of security, what is necessary in order to get them back on the labour market? – experts agree by the Bank that investment needs to be made in the following areas: Education, integration, active employment policy. How does current government work look? – Just in these areas is shortened. In the field of education, the social measures in compulsory schools were drastically reduced, the means of integration being reduced by 50 percent. What about employment incentives? – Well, the 20 000 action has been erased! There are hundreds of millions of euros less for such measures, and Mrs. Minister says in the Committee that she has 79 million euros more at her disposal – to the question of what, I have not received a reply to this day. What is the purpose of the reform in the case of minimum security? – We heard: A uniform Austrian system makes absolutely sense. This is what the Court of Auditors sees as it does, and many political leaders do so, but it has failed until now. What was the status in this regard? – All the national social representatives had agreed, wanted to meet at a table and together a solution In the case of a contract Then the woman minister comes and says that she is presenting a bill for a federal law in June. Now you can imagine that the mood among the national social partners and the basis for discussion with the Minister has been somewhat saddened since then. I also refer to this procedure as a little diplomatic on the part of the Minister. But what happens now? – Now we are waiting for this government template. How does such a thing happen? – One usually resorts to experts in the ministry. In the Social Ministry, there are a number of legal experts that could be used. But what's the woman's minister doing? – It also draws on external experts to develop such a bill. They are quite recruited from FPÖ travels. Additional experts – this is interesting! What about saving in the system? Ladies and gentlemen! A uniform system for minimum security across the country is absolutely welcome and aspires. However, it would be nice to involve the national social partners. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] The objective of all of us must be to bring as many as possible minimum insurance providers back into the labour market as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14701	It's 15.00 a.m. Since a urgent request is being made at 15.05 a.m., I should like to ask Mrs Lintl if she would like to take another minute of her speaking time. [[Abg. Lintl nodds well.]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14725	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already set out the long list of criticisms of the Court of Auditors at the Vienna minimum guarantee, so I would just like to make a brief, basic comment on this. It is clear that the minimum guarantee is financed by the Austrian taxpayer. It was intended as the lowest social network for people in our solidarity, for those who need it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They currently receive more than 150 000 people in Vienna. The number of workers in working age increased particularly strongly. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Isn't that worrying?]] It is completely incomprehensible that the minimum guarantee in Vienna is not covered. For children, Vienna provides 27 percent of the starting value, which is the highest standards throughout Germany. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes, because the children are worth something to us!]] It is therefore possible to provide minimum security for adults and additional for children, although there is still family allowance and childcare allowance. No employee gets more salary because of his children, but the salary is always the same, he receives child support. This system is simply unfair. The payments in Vienna are so high that the city acts as a magnet for immigrants coming from a different culture with a much lower standard of living. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] In particular, poorly trained immigrants know that they are better off with the minimum guarantee. The more children, the more money they have – it has become a kind of business model. There is as much money as you cannot earn through regular work. [[Abg. Rosary: Exactly!]] And if the AMS is cut short for good reasons, the city of Vienna is so generous that it compensates for the unknown money. This is, in fact, a call for failure, but not an incentive to work.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14792	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 3:05 p.m., I must interrupt for the urgent request.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14808	The system of minimum security needs to be reformed urgently; the government is reforming the system of minimum security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14835	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 6 and 7 of the agenda so that the required procedure for a urgent request can take place. [[15:06:57]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Christian Kern, colleagues on ‘CETA’s refusal and group members’ (229/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14865	We now come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed proposal 229/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e14992	I give the floor to the honourable Member as an applicant for the reasons of the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. [[Call the FPÖ:Eh far too long!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Because you don't know the Rules of Procedure!]] Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15033	Ladies and gentlemen! We have experienced an intensive debate in the public over the last few days on the Ceta Agreement, and today in the Council of Ministers, the Federal Government has decided to ratify this agreement as one of the first in the European Union. [[Call the FPÖ: That you signed!]] If you expect a speech from me at this point against free trade, I have to disappoint you. The situation is relatively clear: Austria is an export nation, almost a third of our jobs depend on these exports. We are all interested in strengthening Austria and the Austrian economy in global trade. We need a reasonable trade policy to do this. However, what you have presented here and what you have decided in the Council of Ministers today is the opposite of a reasonable trade policy. We have been in favour of this in Brussels and have fought for improvements in this agreement with Canada. This was a difficult ringing in a circle of 28 nations with completely different starting positions and interests. We have achieved a number of things, and the most important thing we have achieved was the separation of this agreement into a national part and into a European part. I do not want to say that the European part, the commercial part that has been decided in the European Council, has received my approval and I am convinced today that it is right to improve and put on new feet the trade agreements across the continents. However, I must say that the second part was even more important from my point of view, because here in Austria the Austrian Federal Government and the Austrian Parliament – and nobody else – can decide whether we want special rights and privileges for large investors and international corporations. That was the decisive progress. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have achieved that in Austria one can decide whether there is a special treatment for a few companies. We have achieved that there can be no consent to Ceta without the decision of the National Council and the Federal Government. And we also said: As long as we are in charge, this agreement will not be ratified in Austria as it stands today. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] We have fought for this, for which we have opened up the scope and possibilities. We have fought for it, you give these opportunities to make an Austrian decision today lightly again. [[Abg. Haubner: We have fought for it before!]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, as you have said, we have actually drawn important poison teeth from this agreement. What you're doing now, however, is re-implanting these poison teeth to the agreement. They enable international large-scale investors and international corporations to pass through the Austrian courts and the Austrian laws. They enable large companies and international investors to obtain privileges and special rights that do not apply to our small and medium-sized enterprises and not to our citizens. And they make it possible that our laws and our courts, which are good enough for all Austrians and all economic operators in our country, are not good enough for international major investors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have fought to ensure that we can decide on this crucial point in this agreement here in Austria. They'll give it back lightly. The question is why you are doing this and who is serving it, and the answer that lies at hand is quite clear: You do so in the interest of the big sponsors of your government partner ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Little: My God!]] There is no reasonable reason to go through this now. If you look at the development, you have to say that what we have proposed here, namely to avoid a ratification of Ceta, is an ordinary procedure in trade agreements. The Gatt Agreement has been effective since 1948, it has never been ratified. We have experienced that the European Court of Justice has an appeal on whether these private special courts for international investors have legal status or not. You are not waiting for this decision, are you going over it, you are simply going through it – in whose interest, if not in the interest of the major sponsors of the ÖVP? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] If you look at what the European Court of Justice has just decided in the framework of the Achmea procedure, you will see that the Court of Justice has said that private arbitration courts must no longer apply within Europe. If you look at the reasoning, you will find that the Court of Justice has said: European law must not be a private arbitrator in the final development process, but only the European Court of Justice is obliged to do so. This too could have been the starting point for not implementing ratification and saying: We're looking at how it develops. The EU itself is now going to fail when you are here. Look You will agree with Japan, which will be on stage over the next few weeks! There, for good reason, the European Union has already refrained from such special and special rights for international investors, for it knows that it will not continue to do so legally or politically. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is all the more incomprehensible that you are now trying to put it into effect at the last few meters of this agreement with its special courts. Obviously, it is not fast enough for you to serve these lobby interests. I regret that the whole thing is still new, because the only thing I can see here is a cow trade, which the representatives of the FPÖ have clearly admitted. They have received the withdrawal of the ban on smoking, the ÖVP is given the consent of the special rights of international investors. I can only say: If you do a cow trade next time, I'd be right if you at least did it with reverse signs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have also experienced your remarkable justification attempts. Mr Rosenkranz said today in the morning: Well, if you insist that maybe all of this is useless and the fears occur, then we can get rid of it again. – Yes, you can do that, but that has a 20-year follow-up effect. [[Abg. Little: That's not true at all!]] If you insist that what you have decided in the morning was stupid, then it will take 20 years for the international big corporations and big investors to lose their rights again, Mr. Rosenkranz. You have misinformed the public, Mr Rosenkranz. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: You have no idea of international law! Have you read the criminal code yet?]] Also remarkable is the theory: We pulled the poison teeth! – The Minister of Defense was honest enough today to admit that he does not know which one, but he believes they have been drawn. [[Abg. Rosary: Journalism alone is too little!]] The truth is: Since this agreement was signed in Brussels, nothing has changed at all. So don't tell this lavender to the population! [[Abg. Gudenus: Holler and Lavender!]] At least be man enough to sit down and say: Yes, we want that, we decide that, we have promised something else in the election campaign and for years, but we're doing it now!, and don't tell you that you can't change it because anyone else has decided for you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] We decide this in this house. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me come to a final thought: I am convinced that Europe needs an active trade policy, that it is about the enforcement of our political interests. At a time when we see a backward development in which there are many who do not believe in international cooperation, it is all the more important to pursue an active trade policy. [[Abg. Neubauer: Step back!]] This is about the enforcement of our European and thus Austrian interests. However, if we are talking about interests, then it can not only be about the interests of profit maximisation, then it must be much more important to insist that European standards in the field of social policy all over the world are asserting that our companies are not in cheap competition with companies operating environmental dumping, which easily overcome the health interests of our people in Austria. That is why it is important to actively shape trade policy, to stand up and to say that this is our picture of the future, and not just to serve lobbys. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You said you can't do anything here in Austria; it's different, you can do anything. I ask you to: Take care of your responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15235	Mrs Schramböck has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15257	Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! The EU/Canada Pact Ceta is “likely the best trade agreement the EU has ever has completed’. I quote: At the end of the day, this agreement concerns the reputation of Austria and the economic location. - Quote. I have quoted Mr Klubobmann Kern here, and I fully agree with him. It is about Austria's economic location, it is about creating new jobs through this agreement, which is being concluded with Canada, one of the world's most developed industrialized countries. It is a high-quality agreement that is for the benefit of the employees of the companies – not only the large companies but also the small companies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would like to give you a few figures on this: Austria's foreign trade surplus with Canada is 700 million euros in favour of Austrian companies and it is expected to increase. 1 400 Austrian companies and their employees export to Canada. Ceta will create about 15,000 new jobs in Austria and save at European level on customs duties, which is at least EUR 600 million per year. 125 Austrian companies have branches in Canada, of which 14 have production facilities. It is about protecting these investments by Austrian companies in Canada – and it is at least EUR 1.6 billion that Austrian companies have invested in Canada – and to support the companies. Let's take a look in the other direction: Do we have to fear Canadian companies? – I say: No, no, no, Magna has many employees in Austria in Styria, Bombardier has her in Vienna, BRP-Rotax, part of the Bombardier Group, in Upper Austria. A total of 20,000 employees of these Canadian companies work in Austria. We also want to support them, to secure their jobs and to provide them with a basis for continuing their business in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Since large corporations are constantly being spoken of, I have to add something to it. Mr Klubobmann Kern, you know very well – you were not so long ago, just as I am, even CEO – that the American companies, which are often involved, have been in Europe for a very long time, having their branches in Europe and are also implementing European law. These large companies do not need to take the way across Canada to become active in Europe. We are primarily concerned with medium-sized enterprises, and I would like to give you a few examples. It is the company oil mill Haindl from Styria, which produces kernel oil that has seven employees, which says that the orders have recently increased, that the last two deliveries have been made without customs duties and that this is good for their company. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It is the company Praher Plastics from Upper Austria with 200 employees, and see that the company also has 50 employees in production in Canada. Plastic fittings and pipes are produced, and this Upper Austrian company also has more demand and more orders. The same applies to Tyrol: Alois Hirschhuber also has more business with his mountain cheesery Zillertal and its ten employees than he had before. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] This applies equally to the Nadler winery in Lower Austria with three employees, and I could continue this list for a very long time. I would like to sum up once again: In the last six months, part of this agreement with Canada, as you have correctly noted, has already been implemented. What is the benefit of this? – Austria’s exports to Canada have increased by 24 percent in the last six months. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In food trade, in food exports, and in other words, we protect food production, it was even a 42 percent increase in food production. That's a basis that figures, data and facts speak for themselves. As far as the legal question is concerned, you always speak of arbitrators. These arbitration courts are no longer provided for in this Agreement. This is the good and qualitative development of this agreement, and I am quite sure that agreements at European level will not need ten years to be negotiated in the future, but I am in favour of qualitative, short negotiations on which to get to the point. However, one has learned from this case, there will be no private arbitration courts but investment courts. In these investment courts, which are still being worked on, independent judges will be appointed by Europe, Canada, as well as by third countries. It is therefore important to protect and support the investments of our Austrian companies in Canada. That is why we have decided on Ceta in the Council of Ministers and are fully committed to creating jobs in Austria, strengthening the economy in Austria and thus going into a good future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15360	We are now going into the debate. I should like to draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker has a speaking time longer than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Leichfried is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15387	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor, I'm glad you're here. I have you today at the I'd have kept up a picture of you early, but I could have saved it for now. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have to say, I guess so. It is noted that you are Members of Parliament for many years and have this respect for the House that, unlike colleagues of yours, when it comes to a delicate subject, you also come here, and I really think that is very good. I would like to say that again, Mr Strache. [[Abg. Wöger: Very funny!]] - No, it's not funny at all. [[Abg. Wöginger: It is the same speech as...!]] It shows that some have more respect for the House than others, and that is, I think, not funny, Mr. Cot. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] On what you meant, Mrs. Minister of Economic Affairs, that Canada is doing well anyway, there are increases that we are exporting: There are always different studies on how something affects. You said that 15 000 more jobs, I have just read a study of 400 more jobs, and there would be restrictions in the area of the less qualified. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lopatka and Mr Wöinger.]] So there are different approaches, but I think we agree that our economic relations with Canada are good. What has happened so far is beneficial. But I wonder: What are we going to do for, Mrs. Minister of Economic Affairs? Why do we have to sign, ratify, decide on this second part? What's the meaning of that? I don't understand, I'm telling you that quite openly. [[Abg. Hammer: That's your problem that you don't understand!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I am telling you a story, ladies and gentlemen, a true story. There were once two Romanian brothers, the Micula brothers. I don't know if you know them, it's become a very famous case. The Micula Brothers have established a company in Sweden and, after the fall of the Iron Curtain in Romania, in their home country, have invested. They have also invested because Romania did very high subsidies for such investments at the time. Romania then joined the European Union, and the European Union’s aid schemes have logically taken action. As a result, Romania was no longer allowed to grant aid to that company and, as a result of the adaptation to European laws, such aid was discontinued. What happened? – The Micula Brothers are in front of an ISDS Tribunal – Micula, colleague! – went, and this tribunal sentenced Romania to a penalty of 250 million dollars. [[Abg. Wheeler: Say the name...!]] [[Abg. Little: But this has nothing to do with it!]] As a result, the European Commission, namely the Competition DG, informed Romania: If they pay for this, a infringement procedure against Romania will be initiated, and Romania will have to pay punishment to the European Union. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what these ISDS Tribunals do. These are the consequences. You're saying we're negotiating with the aim of making things better. However, there is an ECJ decision pending, and as I said in the early days, it is also a decision of the Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe. Why do you have to decide that so quickly? Why don't you wait for these things? Why don't you wait to see if there really is going to be an international arbitration court? So far, there's no such thing. They shall adopt this Agreement in the event of an old legal situation, ladies and gentlemen. They now decide the old ISDS courts, because there is nothing new yet, and you bear the responsibility for it, even if Austria is condemned this way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To this end, we must ask a fundamental question: These clauses have been developed to protect investors from questionable legal relationships in other countries. This has made sense, because there have been revolutions, expropriations et cetera in the history of several continents. Protecting investors from such a thing makes sense. It is now true, however, that neither Canada nor the European Union is comparable with those countries for which these instruments have been developed. Canada and the EU are developed democracies, states of law, democratic systems, there will be no expropriation and no revolution, ladies and gentlemen. What, then, do you need these arbitration courts, be it tribunals or is it an international arbitration court? Don't you trust the Austrian dishes? Do you think that the Austrian courts are unable to judge reasonable complaints from foreign corporations? I think they can do that, ladies and gentlemen, we need nothing else. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I must answer Mr Haider and Mr Bösch, who have been addressing the subject of improvements since 2017 in the morning: You won't be able to call me any improvement since 2017, because nothing has happened since 2017. That is to say, there are no differences between 2017 and now regarding the state of this agreement. The only big difference is that in 2017 you were absolutely against it and are now complete for it, and that is what you need to explain to your voters, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think you can. [[Abg. Wöinger: applause!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: They do everything, what...!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Not working well!]] But I also wonder, because what is happening here today of course has an exemplary effect: We are not only discussing Ceta, we are also discussing the Mercosur Agreement. If it is decided as it seems at present, our agriculture will have major problems, especially the cattle farmers. Then what will be? Or what will become of TTIP, as Mrs. Merkel again tries to bring TTIP, this undead being, into existence? All you said before, then, isn't it? Then are we also for TTIP and see that the chlorinateds are coming in? [[Abg. Little: Please go!]] [[Abg. Strasser: Mr Colleague, you were in Brussels and you said...!]] [[Abg. Little: This is embarrassing!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That is the question you have to ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen. This is the question that will arise in the future. TTIP will be discussed again, you will have to decide on it, and I suspect that if you fall over today, you will be just as upset at TTIP, ladies and gentlemen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15613	Mr Haubner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15634	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Fassmann! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the members of the Senior Federation of Ottakring to the most hearty in the House! [[General condolences.]] Mr. Kern, I have to come to you. I admire your courage for these remarks, but unfortunately I have to agree to your credibility, because if anyone has taken a zigzag course at Ceta, then you have been with your party – once before, against it, once for that, then again. [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Loacker.]] I already quoted it this morning: There was an authority on 25 May. October 2016 to our Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador, the Permanent Representative of Austria to the European Union, Mr Mag. Walter Grahammer, has been issued, and this has included a number of points: Regulatory law, regulatory cooperation, public services, investment protection, trade and sustainable development, occupational health, environmental protection, review and consultation of stakeholders, water, public procurement. This document has exactly two signatures: those of President Bures and yours. Now I really wonder - - – I've been careful, and that's why I have to agree on credibility. [[Abg. Core: Did you listen to my speech before?]] [[Abg. Core:... absolutely! You didn't listen to me!]] I have to say quite honestly, in a trade agreement, you just have to say B if you say A and confess to something afterwards. This is what we are doing, ladies and gentlemen, because half of the agreements simply do not exist, and you know that yourself, Mr President, and you simply have to take note of that. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ]] We have already discussed this morning, and I must say quite honestly: It is about Austria's economic location and the whole of the European Union, and you act as if we were to conclude an agreement with a country that has any standards to be found among others. It's about Canada! Canada is a country that everyone likes to drive, Canada is a country with high standards, Canada has a good government – you will not agree with me, you have met more often with Canadian politicians – as I believe it is a good agreement between a country that has 37 million inhabitants, and a region like Europe that has 550 million inhabitants. So we're not afraid of Canada, ladies and gentlemen. I think that is also very important to mention. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I think we have always made a clear commitment to trade agreements. When I think about this division of corporations and companies into good and bad, I have to say: The economy is indivisible. It's just Austria that's alive. We have 220 leading companies, great companies – we have already heard several names today, from the Voest downwards – that cooperate with 90 000 small companies, 90 000! That is the strength, and we need these trade agreements, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why we also make it very clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When you get the data from Statistics Austria, you can see very clearly: It is not the corporations that need these trade agreements, but especially the small and medium-sized enterprises. 98 percent of SMEs use these trade agreements. A third of the companies using these trade agreements have fewer than nine employees. We make these trade agreements exactly for these companies. [[Complementary of the Abg. Little.]] These trade agreements are a success story. If we look closely at this, it is recognized that we have created more than 375 000 jobs since 1989 through increased economic integration and trade agreements in Austria. These are jobs that you are always talking about, and of course we in the companies too, because we know that you are just talking about each other. Please, let's stay with you. Let us see that we are bringing these trade agreements to a successful conclusion together! I would like to say one more thing: Exporting entrepreneurs in Austria, and the number of those who have grown massively over the last 25 years, from 12,000 to 55 000, need these trade agreements, as I have already mentioned. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have now also said that we are concluding this trade agreement. Since this has been emphasized today: Nor are we the first, Austria is now the tenth country to ratify this trade agreement. The Minister has already given many examples. If we support Austrian entrepreneurs, we see that we create and secure jobs! That is why we are clearly committed to this trade agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15721	Ladies and gentlemen! The live stream is currently not working. It's just the government bank in the picture. [[Abg. Wöginger: In the sense of parliamentarianism!]] Work is being done on solving the problem. Mr Klubobmann Gudenus is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e15754	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Values viewers in front of the screens, even if the speaker is not in the picture now. I would like to address briefly what has been said by the previous speakers. There was much that we take seriously, because of course it is important to take the criticism of the opposition seriously, even if it is serious. That is also a principle. We have the impression that in some cases the criticism is not serious. I try to take them seriously, but I think one of your party partners, Mr. Kern, whom you and we all know, Mr. Gusenbauer, would probably replicate your critical words – you have spoken of large sponsors – with “the usual ones”. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] That's a quote we all know. Mr Gusenbauer would probably say that, I suppose. I'm not saying it, I'm taking your criticism seriously. I'm at least trying to take them seriously, Mr. Kern. You said the SPÖ had achieved this and that. The truth is, that is the current legal situation, because it is a mixed agreement, you have not achieved anything yourself. To a large extent, your speech has been heard like the fairy tale hour of a failed German chancellor, who simply does not want this federal government to launch reasonable measures and finally implement a government programme that also works and is good for people, from security to discharge, to border protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Friedl]] We are doing this together with the ÖVP, which is good, and we are not going to get rid of this way, ladies and gentlemen, no millimeters, no millimeters! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kuntzl: A few weeks ago you were against it!]] I would like to stress it again today: We stand at 100 percent for this coalition agreement. What we are discussing here today is part of this coalition agreement, for which we stand. Pacta sunt servanda, we stand for that. With this coalition agreement, we have the best government agreement, the best government programme the Second Republic ever had, ladies and gentlemen – ever had! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have set up more in the first four months alone than you, Mr Kern, have done in a year and a half, and we have brought much, much more on the way. They're already wondering: What are we doing for the next four years? - Don't worry, there'll be some more. The whole thing is good for Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What would be the alternative? You can talk about it openly. The alternative would be: The FPÖ would not have signed the government agreement, and we would have more of the same and more of the Shame, which has happened with red government participation in recent years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We would have further exploding public debt. [[Call the FPÖ:The key question!]] We would continue to have great unemployment, despite good economic conditions. You can also do that, even the SPÖ manages, you only need to look at your comrades in Vienna. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We would have continued to have illegal migration – more of the Shame – which would be the alternative to saying quite openly that we had increasing poverty. That's what we talked about early this morning: First produce poverty, and then import poverty, that's, please, Copyright SPÖ, that only you, ladies and gentlemen, do. A shame is that, a shame! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] What would be the alternative to this wonderful government programme, which is part of the point that is now being discussed? – We would have further Islamization! We would have even more headscarf dams in Vienna, Linz, Wels, Salzburg, Innsbruck, Graz and elsewhere where, even more Burkas, even more Atib-Vereins, even more prayer clubs, even more Imame, who hate Austria, stir up the people. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] We would have that under a SPÖ's government participation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Drozda: What about Ceta?]] We would also have an educational emergency, which we are also depressing so that we can re-establish Austria's education policy in order to become the number one in Europe. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] This is what we, the FPÖ and the ÖVP, are doing together, and much more, but I think that would break the framework. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] You know that about the NEOS, don't you? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let us come to the points we are dealing with today. I just wanted to say that this government agreement with the content that we are now discussing was alternativesless. We have decided to go exactly this path, which is good for Austria, and we stand by it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Second point – which has already been discussed several times today –: [[Abg. Duzdar: What about the referendum?]] Today's Ceta, which was decided in the Council of Ministers today and which we are continuing to set in motion here in the National Council, is not the Ceta of the time. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] You have already fallen several times back then, Mr. Kern. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It's very interesting that you're really upset now. Mr. Kern, let us look at your quotations, you just have to go through them. Ex-Bundeskanzler Kern, 15.9.2016: “Probably the best trade agreement the EU has ever concluded.” Interesting, Mr. Kern! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Then we continue with 14.10.2016, “Der Standard” writes: ‘Kern gives green light to Ceta.’ Then it goes on, 4.10.2017: ‘In Parliament, there is currently no opportunity to reach a positive decision on this free trade agreement. I want to avoid that the agreement, which is important for Austria as a strong export nation, would fail by rejecting the National Council as a whole.” Now I ask myself this, Mr. Kern: At that time you were for Ceta with poison teeth, and now you are against Ceta without poison teeth. You can explain this to people outside, Mr. Kern. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And much worse: They're not just the Dialers have fallen in the back, you have fallen your own base in the back, Mr. Kern. [[Call the SPÖ: Folk vote!]] They did a member survey at the time, and say and write 88 percent – you have to be careful that could be a code again, but it was Your result – your members spoke out against Ceta at the time. [[Abg. Kollross: All you say is a code!]] You have fallen back on your own members, Mr. Kern! It is inconceivable that you will then come out here and criticize a FPÖ, which together with the ÖVP will create the best project for Austria for the next five years. This is a shame, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] In conclusion: Mr. Kern, your words have also made a certain senseless speech. I appreciate and respect your studies, but all of this has nothing to do with law and international law at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Core]] They are always talking about the fact that there are private arbitration courts at work, but we were able to enforce in the final effect that publicly legitimate, public investment jurisdiction comes with a possibility of appeal. There you see, you seem to have not dealt with the matter enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16012	Mr Strolz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16033	Mr President. Estimated government members! Mr Gudenus! Dear citizens! That was amusing, yes, that was amusing. [[Admissibility with the NEOS and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: This is what Mr Strolz says...!]] Mr Gudenus and the FPÖ have just made a salto back and stand back, and he says: It was nothing, we have fallen in the back of our voters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gudenus.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Call:He's got his head on.]] I'll get you together. The FPÖ has fallen into the back of its electorate. This is one point we must make. [[Abg. Gudenus: The SPÖ too!]] - No, the FPÖ! Well, the SPÖ several times, that's a difference. [[Abg. Gudenus: Ah, the FPÖ! The SPÖ?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Gudenus.]] Mr. Kern, I appreciate you in a lot, but Ceta is not your masterpiece in your political vita. This is very confusing: once before, once against, then with beepacknote back in Austria and well, and today again against it. So you can't quite understand this; in that respect, the confusion that you have created here now goes right as a virus. The FPÖ has also been detected by this virus and changes its position by 180 degrees. Then stand out here and swirl something, and that always sounds very convincing. [[Abg. Gudenus: I do? Then you agree!]] No, only if you hold your ears and look at the body's language, you're well-trained. But, of course, if one knocks it off to the point, Mr. Gudenus, it just doesn't stop – yes, I'm starting – just as the SPÖ's maintenance doesn't keep. [[Abg. Gudenus: Then start once!]] We as the Republic of Austria have concluded 60 trade agreements. We have concluded trade agreements for decades, always. We have always concluded 1,400 free trade agreements for decades in the European Union, in the European Member States. We have concluded, always, 3,000 free trade agreements worldwide for decades. You know, Mr. Kern – including you, dear FPÖ – there were always investment protection clauses inside. This has always been an integral part, and this is part of the crafts case of international trade relations. You wouldn't be sitting in your suit today, all of you, as you are sitting here, we wouldn't have this free trade. You'd sit naked, we'd all like to save ourselves. Everyone! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Rosary: No! That would not be consistent with the dignity of the house!]] Of course, our prosperity is based on these free trade agreements. [[Congratulation with NEOS and ÖVP.]] When it turns out that Europe is unable to conclude an advanced trade pact with a country like Canada: With whom, then, does Europe still think it can do business in the coming years? – The head of government of Canada has asked Justin Trudeau – a social liberal head of government. We have many fans of miracle boys Justin. Of course, he asks the right question: Who are we to trade with, if not with, the most European country outside Europe? What trade pact should we conclude, if not the most modern, transparent among all the over 60 trade agreements we have concluded so far? This is the most transparent, progressive trade pact, and then people come and say: It's a fool. Then, if you are consistent, you also have to come here and say: We must also cancel the other 60, today – and on, back to North Korea! That would be intellectual honesty. [[Congratulation with NEOS and ÖVP.]] Then you have to show yourself here with a capperl with the inscription “Make Austria great again!” and say: I'm for the building of walls, and we'll have the Italians pay for it ourselves. That would be consistent if you wanted to go the trample path with left and right outside. But if you want to make sober, intellectually just policy here, I ask you to stick to the facts. The facts are: With no other trade pact that Austria has concluded, we have developed arbitration as modern and transparent as we have with this. We are away from ISDS – for the fine tip – we arrived at ICS. For example, SMEs benefit from this, which is an opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they may also have legal enforcement, faster than usual, because it would be almost impossible for them to do so without powerful legal departments. As part of this trade pact, we have records that will be public. We have negotiations under this trade pact, which are being conducted publicly. We don't have corporate-friendly lawyers like in "elevenths" – under quotation marks – previous trade pacts that you are not willing to resolve. For the first time, we have the fact that a fixed tribe guarantees very transparent procedures for 15 independent arbitrators nominated by the Contracting States. These are huge progresses, which is a very powerful intermediate step for a destination where we want NEOS, namely to become a proper international commercial court. We've never made a bigger intermediate step than with this Ceta-Pakt. That is why I do not understand the criticism and therefore I consider it intellectually unreasonable. It's about real life! Niki Scherak was recently at a Lower Austrian company, the world market leader in the construction of record recorders. Recorded records, if the Federal Chancellor watches, were earlier these black discs on which music has been stored. [[Abg. Singer: Wurlitzer!]] That's gonna be modern again, and that's why you need more playing equipment again. The world market leader, of course, says: I'm extremely difficult with Canada, I can't sell these devices there, there are all kinds of restrictions. For me, Ceta would be great, secure jobs in Lower Austria – how great is that? – and the Canadian has a Gaudi when playing records; my heart goes up for the Canadian. With greetings from Lower Austria: All right, thank you, Ceta!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16226	Bruno Rossmann is spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16247	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very interesting to listen to this debate. Once, as it were, the crashers sit on this side, once sat down on the other side, but the bock in the previous debate probably shot Matthias Strolz. [[Abg. I'm not a hunter!]] I am against the Ceta agreement, I am quite clear to you, but I do not intend to go to North Korea, nor do I intend to build a wall in North Korea. I'm going to try to explain this a little. [[Abg. Rädler: You are employed at the Chamber of Workers...!]] – Oh, Mr Rädler, please let me tell you that would do better. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] The first to fall into the Ceta debate, Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern – Federal Chancellor out of service – that was you. You initially carried the critical course of your predecessor and continued, but then you used criticism at European level, and your criticism has become more and more small and small, and then you have thought, we do a member survey and let us support our course from the members. Very few members have participated in this survey, but you know that 88 percent of those who have participated have spoken against Ceta. However, you have in October - - - moment, I am coming to the others, Mr Klubobmann Kern. [[Abg. Kern: That's not true! Just because it says the FPÖ, it's not true!]] – Nevertheless, after a decision of the Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe, you have spoken for the famous “Yes, but”. So: First you were opposed, then you were with a “yes, but” for it; They have drawn the conclusion from the judgment of the Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe, we are in favour of ratification, but – now the But is coming – the question of the disputed arbitration courts needs to be resolved. Since then, you have been enslaving between these positions. This is also reflected in your request. In fact, your motion for a resolution contains – and that is something that is already curious – the following: “The Federal Government has to achieve in post-negotiations on Ceta that corporations are not granted, or secure, a special charge” – or to ensure! – ‘that the Austrian ratification of Ceta can only be carried out on the basis of a referendum’. Why do you want to renegotiate the Special Complaints? The decisive thing is not the special-clad, the decisive, which would nevertheless remain in the contract, even if renegotiated, is investor protection. If you are against something, then you can only be against investor protection, but not against the special claimants, because they do not benefit at all. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] If you already want to make this the subject of a referendum – that is what we want, and we have already submitted a request in December – then I have to say: Yes, confess to a referendum, but do not constantly enslave between after-sales on the one hand and a referendum on the other! It won't bring you anything. But the true crasher, the true abdominal stain, has of course made FPÖ in the Council of Ministers today. Mr. Vice-Chancellor Strache, I do not have to remind you of what you said on 20.9. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Were you there?]] In this House you have said and with what kind of agreement you have opposed this agreement, not only against the Ceta agreement, but also against TTIP. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Are you in the Council of Ministers, colleague?]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: Were you there?]] [[Abg. Kassinger: Much more intense against TTIP!]] You have spoken of predator capitalism, you have called for a referendum. All of this was forgotten a few days after a government agreement was negotiated. In the run-up to this government agreement, there have not been a few in the FPÖ that have said that we are making this a coalition condition – but no, it has not become a coalition condition. Today in the “Morgenjournal” Mr Rosenkranz wanted to tell all of us that something had changed in this agreement, and Mr Gudenus also argued in this direction, but forgot to explain to us what had changed. Nothing, Mr Rosenkranz, has changed, but nothing at all. [[Abg. Rosary: Well, where are you in the reading?]] The poison teeth you spoke of this morning were not drawn to this agreement. [[Abg. Rose wreath: Have been pulled!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Was drawn!]] – No, the investor protection clauses are still included in the contract. [[Abg. Rosary: That's not true!]] – I understand what you mean, yes, but you interpret things all look wrong. Instead of private arbitration courts, they are now counted in international investment courts. [[Abg. Rosary: But you interpret...!]] Let us wait for the ECJ's decision! Why Wait Don't you take the ECJ's decision, which will have to be clarified over the next few months, whether these arbitrators and special-laws are at all compatible with EU law? No, you have it very quickly on this question. In particular, you have a hurry to betray your voters, not for the first time in this legislative period, but for the time being. [[Abg. Neubauer: Since when have you been so worried about our voters? Look where their own stay!]] They also ignore the 560 000 signatorys of popular desire who voted against TTIP, Ceta and Tisa. If I am not mistaken, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you were also one of those who signed this popular desire. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Why has this agreement not been used for other reasons? – It is not only the issue of investor protection, it is also about other things. There are also other clauses on liberalisation, which exert very strong pressure on public services and thus on services of general interest. You know this very well, Mr Rosenkranz: Services of public general interest may be affected at any time, as the so-called negative list principle applies in the agreement. [[Abg. Rosary: No!]] What is not excluded from public services there may be affected at any time. That's how it looks, Mr. Klubobmann! Next point: The regulatory cooperation set out in the Agreement may result in numerous standards being undermined: Consumer protection standards, environmental standards, worker protection. [[Abg. Rosary: No!]] - Of course! Turn yourself out and explain the opposite to me! To compensate for all these arguments in connection with regulatory cooperation! [[Abg. Rosary: Have you ever had your DNA examined for the Brothers Grimm?]] Now to you, Mrs Schramböck! They voted very strongly for the economic location and said how great that is not all for our small and medium-sized enterprises. There is a study by one of my highly appreciated economists, Mr Werner Raza. It has calculated modelled that over the next ten years the economic growth effects will amount to a total of 0.023 percent. [[Abg. Kassegger: But that's exactly what he's expected!]] So this is very, very little, very, very modest. And the employment growth you are addressing will also be extremely modest with 0.018 percent over the next ten years. I once had a fight with Commissioner Malmström on this issue of employment effects a few years ago, and she did not want to see my arguments come true. [[Call the ÖVP: You don't even know her!]] [[Abg. Rosary: This is unheard of! How can she?]] I told her that it will do little to help small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. [[Abg. Little: That's not true at all!]] – But yes, Mrs Minzig! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] This agreement is an agreement that actually benefits the large companies and not the many small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria, which are in increased competition with these large companies. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[New call of the abg. Little.]] I therefore ask you, in the light of these arguments to be taken seriously and in the light of the fact that about 80 percent of the population are against this agreement, to reconsider your position. I call on you not to accept this ratification here in this House in the coming weeks, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ and the ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16596	Mr Vice-Chancellor Strache is speaking on the floor. I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e16618	Mr National Council President! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, I'm here today, of course. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It has already been held today, especially for me, the Parliament – I have been through the living opposition experience for 13 years – is particularly important. This is also a matter of appreciation, and of course it is also about standing at its position, explaining it and presenting it accordingly; and I am in favour of our decision. Let's look at what has been broken down in the last few years, which topics we have dealt with, and who has taken what positions! In principle, I think one thing is out of dispute today: In principle, free trade is important and of interest to Austria. The many free trade agreements we have in Austria have naturally given our country an advantage as an export nation that we are – for the economy, also for jobs in this country, and also for the prosperity that this country has developed. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] In principle, no one in this House will be opposed to reasonable and well-negotiated free trade agreements. At the beginning of the discussion on Ceta, this was still connected with TTIP – TTIP is fortunately dead – and there were joint negotiations on the part of the SPÖ and the ÖVP. [[Abg. Lightness: Rather the fear that...!]] Both agreements were in the room, and there was, of course, legitimate criticism at the time when it came to the fact that, at the same time, a free trade agreement with the USA had also been reached, which could not be supported in the form that was discussed at the time. At the time, the FPÖ was a very clear opposition party and said: Yes, we want to enter into force before parts of a free trade agreement – later on Ceta was the subject – a referendum or a binding popular survey! – It was denied, you, Mr. Kern – at the time as Federal Chancellor – and your coalition partner did not want it. You rejected her, you categorically rejected her. We have also made several requests in this direction. As a result, there was also a Federal Presidency election, in which at the end two presidential candidates were elected in a election, and we know that one of them said quite clearly that if he became the Federal President, he will not sign the ratification of Ceta in the form as it was then. The second candidate, who won and today is the Federal President, has clearly said he will ratify Ceta. This choice was, of course, a certain direction. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You can say: The final decision remains the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who has the opportunity not to ratify it. - You have to hold on to that too. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, yes, the two agreements Ceta and TTIP, which were under discussion, were rejected in the then form. TTIP is no longer an issue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] With regard to the form at that time, the massive deterioration for the economy, but also for consumers: Yeah, that's what's changed. It is therefore almost interesting when I hear where that happened and when it happened. - Well, it's very concrete: With the legally binding declaration of interpretation, this has happened only in 2017 after you, Mr. Kern, put the first part of Ceta into effect with the previous government. This very concrete statement of interpretation summarises the following – namely, legally binding –: Our high food quality remains preserved. Goods, foodstuffs, may only be imported under valid strict Austrian and European regulations. – That is, there are very clear standardisations, which are also held. Our strict Austrian environmental and social standards remain fully preserved. In addition: Public services serving general public services, health, education, housing, water supply, which is explicitly quoted, remain in the decision-making area of the national states. – Please read and please note! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] ‘Compulsory social security and social security schemes’ are expressly ‘excepted from the Agreement’. [[Abg. Rossmann: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] – So don't say anything else, Mr Rossmann! CETA should “not lead to the promotion of foreign investors vis-à-vis local investors”. – All of this, fortunately, was made binding in the Declaration of Interpretation in 2017, after Mr. Kern’s entry into force of this Ceta Agreement in part. [[Abg. Core: Mr. Strache, I made that up personally with Juncker!]] That is exactly what the ECJ is referring to, and that is exactly what the legal definitions are, which will ultimately continue to take effect in the future. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the House of Representatives, Kassager and Rossmann.]] In order for companies to benefit from the agreement, “a real connection to the economy of Canada”, that is, business by dubious letterbox companies is not possible, Mr. Kern! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rose wreath: Hey, great!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Well, is it true now or not?]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But you already know that this is not true!]] What was another criticism? – Another criticism was: Private arbitration courts are to be feared. That was the main argument that private arbitration courts are to be feared. – Yes, Mr. Kern, that would in truth have resulted in the hallucination of state jurisdiction. Only: These private arbitration courts are finally averted and will not come. And that's what they call drawing poison teeth, Mr. Kern! These are the factual basis of assessment. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Leichtfried and Mr Rossmann.]] In the case of investment jurisdiction, there will be appeals and procedural transparency. This is guaranteed and this is the international standard. The ECJ will, of course, expressly confirm by the ECJ that national law cannot be repealed; and that is the right way. In this way, there is a development which has made these clear, improved, clear legal interpretations available today, which also gives real meaning. Yes, I say we have always lived our position for a referendum, and we have also called for this in the government negotiations. [[Call at the SPÖ:... has happened?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] And what have we experienced? – When it was necessary, namely before Ceta entered into force, one was not prepared to do so, core and the chosen red-black government were not ready for this. That would have been the right time. [[Call the SPÖ: Not anymore?- Oh, my God!]] In the post-war period, during the government negotiations, we tried to demand it again. But we have had to experience – that is, if you do not have the absolute majority and cannot form a single government – that the partner who has negotiated with us has defined a clear red line in this area. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] That was a very clear position of the ÖVP that this is a red line for them. In consequence, if we had insisted on a referendum, then these negotiations would not have led to a result, but would have been terminated, and then there would have been a red-black continuation, Ceta would have remained and you would have ratified it today. [[Abg. Rosary: For God's sake!]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: So summarized: You fell down!]] [[Abg. Rosary: That can't be one who's lying on the back, at all...!]] [[Abg. Lighten: I'm sitting there quite well!]] Be honest, that is exactly the truth, which is also behind all your patterns of action! That is exactly what your quotations show, Mr. Kern. On 15 September 2016, you said in the “Standard” that this Free Trade Agreement “is probably the best the EU has ever negotiated”. Also in the “standard”: ‘Kern gives green light to Ceta: SPÖ does not want to block trade agreements’. ==References== In October 2017, you have, as has been said, explicitly recorded: ‘In Parliament, there is currently no opportunity to reach a positive decision on this free trade agreement. I want to avoid that the agreement, which is important for Austria as a strong export nation, would fail by rejecting the National Council as a whole”. That's where you admit: Whoever says A has to say B, or you reject it as a whole. That is exactly what shows how unfair you have been on the question. As I said, Ceta was deliberately sealed by you on 18.10.2016. This is the reality, and as an old burden, we had to deal with it in the government negotiations and make a decision in this regard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ecker.]] You know, we're faced with a decision: The government negotiations could take place because the EIA is not prepared to ensure a referendum together with us. [[Abg. Arbitrators: So posts are more important! To bravo!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haider: It was more important to prevent red!]] In the end, we should have experienced a continuation of red black, but Ceta would have remained, but the borders would not have been protected, asylum abuse would have continued to take place, wrong developments in this country would have continued. – This is a point in which you have a balance to make. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: That is how you are! Posts!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Dearer blue posts than red post!]] We've hit this balance. We have taken over responsibility for our home country of Austria, with a cut-off, with compromises to create a government programme that will clarify the essential issues and correct the misdevelopments of the past years that you have created. [[Call the SPÖ. When is the vote?]] [[Call the SPÖ: Crashers!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Rot from the government!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have achieved what we have achieved. Today we have improvements in the contract in favour of Austria, the interests of Austria are secured, the general provision is secured, the food sector is secured, private arbitration courts are not called into question as parallel justice – and that is what it is all about. [[Call the SPÖ: What?]] Final sentence: Yes, I am in favour of taking on responsibility, and this consideration was the right decision to ensure that there is at last more security in this country, but also a discharge of the population in the sense of social responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17043	Mrs Cornelia Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17068	Mr President. Appreciate government members on the government bank! Mr. Strache, you could not have formulated it much more clearly that you have government posts more important than election promises. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Höbart:... Content!]] I hope you recognize yourself in this picture At that time you still saw Ceta very, very critical and were opposed in many areas. [[a panel on which a picture of vice-chancellors' strategists and the inscription “Committal referendum to Ceta and TTIP” is to be seen in height]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Now he’s just explained!]] [[Call at the SPÖ:... forget about it!]] I can only thank my previous speaker Bruno Rossmann if he says that ÖVP and FPÖ have today, with the approval of Ceta, betrayed many of their voters in the Council of Ministers. A consent to Ceta is about as if one ordered a drug to our Austrian population, of which neither the ingredients nor the active substances are known. [[Keeping a medicine box in height]] I think you're watching the gallery, and none of you want to know a drug whose ingredients and ingredients we don't know. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Is that agreed with the core?]] [[Abg. Rosary: It's all about what's in it!]] But the Federal Government also shows no understanding in this debate. In the European Union, the precautionary principle applies: When placing goods on the market, they must first be approved in order to ensure that they are not dangerous and not harmful to people. [[Abg. Small:... Lisbon Treaty!]] But the Federal Government also shows its anti-Europeanism in this debate and prefers to be with the USA and Canada in bed. There one brings goods to the market, and then it has to be proved that they are harmful to people. The precautionary principle, dear Federal Government, is a foreign word for you. I can only say one thing: Shame on it! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder:... rather than the grey wolves!]] And, Mr Haubner – I think he's not in the hall right now – no, we Social Democrats are not afraid of international trade, no, on the contrary – unless he remains fair. Mrs Schramböck, I would like to thank you for having been so meticulous about how good Austria is already in negotiations and economic relations with Canada. Mr Gudenus – he is unfortunately not in the hall – who so often deals with Austrian history, I would like to help him learn the history of his party; Mr. Rosenkranz, maybe you can do this to him. [[Abg. Rosary: He can read it himself in the Minutes!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: So you are together.]] [[Abg. Rosary: No, we have intellectually more possibilities than your red bush drums!]] He should also learn the history of this house, because recently, in the last GP, you were still very critical of Ceta. I'm disappointed with your party, the FPÖ, because you fell over there. In the meantime, you can talk about x-th individual cases among the invaders of the FPÖ. Why am I disappointed, even very disappointed human beings? – In October 2016, the current infrastructure minister Norbert Hofer said: [[Abg. Stefan: Honest disappointment!]] ‘CETA not only applies to customs duties, but also to environmental standards and workers’ rights.’ In September 2017, Mr. Strache, you said: “CETA and TTIP [...] are [...] products of predatory capitalism.” – Mr. Strache and Mr. Hofer, why do you fall down? Why is the whole FPÖ constantly falling over? [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Behavioural applause at SPÖ!]] In fact, it has changed exactly zero in the debate and content of the Ceta Agreement, but only the date. You know that, Mr Rosary, even if you smile now. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Rosary.]] I attest to the FPÖ and forerunner As a clubman, you have a chronic illness, that of falling down. [[Abg. Rosary: How can you even recognize this as a Mafia lying at the back?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] In the meantime, the FPÖ has finally thrown its promises overboard. It is not important for you to work on improving this trade agreement for Austria. The FPÖ capitulates before the Group's interests and before Sebastian Kurz and its new ÖVP. Mr Rosenkranz, I ask you very seriously: Don't you even want to think about a guest membership at the ÖVP? [[Abg. New builders: You lose the... from your own club!]] I think this is the right time. The ÖVP is represented by the farmers and the economic operators. [[Abg. Rosary: Since when is Maschek already recorded in the original tone?]] Mr Strasser is now, I believe, not in the hall. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Excuse me, sit there! Mr Strasser, what happens when large agricultural groups meet our small farmers and organic farmers? – I don’t think they can remain competitive. They betray the Austrian farmers and their interests as well. Mr Haubner, as an entrepreneur, I wonder why you are constantly representing the interests of large corporations and not the interests of those who would really need it in this country, namely the many, many EPCs and SMEs. [[Abg. Small: The SMEs!]] The baker and the butcher around the corner certainly don't need Ceta! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm not alone with my trouble, three out of four Austrians see it that way. 562,000 Austrians signed the popular desire against Ceta. [[Abg. Little: They've all read it!]] This federal government ignores all these people. Direct co-determination, yes, that's drumming. You always, but when it's that far, you don't want to hear about it. As long as examination proceedings – we have heard it today – are pending with the European Court of Justice, which may have the effect of finding that the Ceta Agreement is illegal in Europe, as long as it is not clarified how the group members and secret courts will have an effect, the debate on Ceta is inadequate for us Social Democrats. [[Abg. Rosary: No!]] [[Abg. Haider: No, there are no secret dishes!]] Our goal must be to protect our resources, to produce or to operate sustainablely, and not to ship the goods through the seas of the world; so there is no ecological future. Yesterday in the EU's main committee, we Socialists have tried to stop the negotiations on TTIP once and for all, but there the government parties have become providers of Nestlé and Co, and I am very sad about that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17406	Mrs Theresia Niss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17428	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen, at heart: Who really noticed whether Ceta is in use or not? If we survey whether Ceta, which has now been in provisional application since 21.9.2017, has changed anything, it is likely that 99 percent will reply with No. That's exactly why. It's okay. There were changes, but if we are honest, they are only positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Trade facilitations have reached their validity, customs duties and other barriers to trade have been and are phased out. Now I'm wondering, Is this so bad for domestic entrepreneurship, for the domestic economy that earns 6 of 10 euros in export? Every percent more export value produces thousands of jobs, and I wonder: Is this so bad if we create jobs and thus strengthen our social system? What I really can't hear anymore is the company bashing. These evil, evil companies create jobs, and imagine, they even apply for it! And imagine, there are people who like to work for them! And imagine producing these evil, evil companies products that we buy – T-shirts, Nike Shoes, iPhones! If the companies do not operate in accordance with the tax system, then this will and should be anticipated, we are also committed to it; but please don't flatten, I simply can't hear it anymore. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Klubobmann Kern, on large sponsors and large corporations: I was not aware that Facebook, Google and so on support our Federal Chancellor, but that is probably part of your disinformation policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We always hear that the companies are the big winners of Ceta. I think we'll talk about the Austrian big companies again. It is not easy to distinguish this, but the number of exporting companies has more than quadrupled since 2000, from 12 000 to 56 000. I don't think there are so many big corporations at all. These are SMEs that benefit from less bureaucracy. This government is committed to less bureaucracy, which is possible in this coalition, but only on the verge. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't understand the excitement about the whole agreement anyway, I never understood it either. We are talking here of an agreement concluded with a country that has 36 million inhabitants; the EU has 511 million inhabitants. If we really have to be afraid or if we don't have a little more self-confidence, I wonder. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are talking about a country where life expectancy is higher than in Austria. Faith Do you really think that its food, environmental and social standards can be so bad? Actually, it would have to be reversed, that Canada should actually be afraid of the EU, but that is not the case, because there the discussion is a bit more honest and reasonable. It is precisely this last point that shows the sense of discussion and the conscious disinformation. Where does this March actually come from, that the standards are lowered? It is explicitly stated that Ceta does not reduce environmental, social and food standards, that no pressure is planned to further privatise the provision of services of general interest. Article 191 of the Lisbon Treaty also provides for this. So listen. Please, let's go with this fright-making! We can also determine in the future what ends up on our tellers, you know that very well. Mr Rossmann, it would be nice if you could communicate this in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Kern, if I correctly understood you earlier, you thought that you were committed to the fact that the Austrian Parliament did not agree to the agreement you agreed to. Agreed? Didn't you agree? – I did Not quite understood. It is clear, however, that we have negotiated this agreement for eight years. It was decided unanimously in the Council of Ministers. At the time, all SPÖ ministers agreed to do so if I heard it correctly. There was an survey, there were countless discussions, and these discussions were also good. What's overhaste? In Austria everything goes a little slower, but you really can't call it that. In my opinion, a tangible agreement has been reached that facilitates trade, opens up the Canadian procurement market for us – export – and nevertheless upholds our standards. Again: We're talking about a highly developed country here. How moralizing are we supposed to be when we give Canada an understanding that its legal system or its standards are underdeveloped? Now for investment protection: Austria has so far concluded around 60 bilateral investment protection agreements, and they have proved their worth. We were once accused, we have never been condemned. However, our companies have already called 17 times – at the time – arbitration courts, and that was, if you would like, the old investment protection agreements. There is now a new system which provides for a public investment jurisdiction with an appeal body with transparency and in which the judgments of 15 publicly appointed, qualified judges are taken. Let's stick to the truth, too: The current system cannot amend laws, but legitimate compensation, due to unlawful discrimination, can be requested. Do you know what this is? – With such investment protection agreements, I am attracting investment and creating jobs, and I am really pleased about the latter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to continue to play a violin in the concert of a global trading system and the associated competitiveness, please be reasonable and stop with this polemic! Our future and our children's future is global, seclusion does not help us. Adam Smith already said: ‘The bigger the market, the greater the prosperity for all.’ If we as a Europe fail to implement our high standards through agreements such as Ceta, then there will probably be other regions of the world, and then it is clear that we, our companies and our employees, have a look at it. It would be a shame. The People's Party will definitely not allow this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17546	Mr Haider is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17567	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is really paradoxical when the SPÖ is making a urgent request for Ceta's rejection here. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The club members, cores and arbitrators, can also be written by name, especially Mr Kern, who in his time, as short-term chancellor Ceta – I can't spare it again – has called “ probably the best trade agreement [...] the EU has ever concluded”. He did not let it enter into force at all with his signature, but, we remember, he has formally passed over his own party youth and the red trade unionists. In all of this, he was supported by the current Koklubobmann Schieder – which in turn is a quote – “uningelimited”. All of this is in the issue of Parliament's correspondence via the EU's main committee of 19th November. Read on October 2016. It is precisely these two clubmen, cores and arbitrators who supported Ceta at a time – and at all possible – when this agreement still had all the fangs, that are now submitting this request. At that time you should have brought him in, when Ceta still had this poison teeth, when any arbitration courts were still talking about group members, a sale of drinking water – and what we have not heard yet – of the end of sovereignty and of the end of our jurisdiction. That's where you should have submitted the application. But you have been talking about the best trade agreement ever, despite the poison teeth. Mr Kern, you should have tabled this request at the time, and not now, since these poison teeth have all been drawn, and indeed all, each one, because there is an agreement that can be accepted well, now that we have the so-called Common Instrument of Interpretation, in which every single problematic passage is depleted. You know the paper, I know it, but against better knowledge. You have made this request, and because you obviously refuse to read this interpretation instrument, I will now inform you of the essential content. I have also always said to Mr Rossmann, who, during the Vice-President's speech, said that this is not true, that he has selected individual passages from this interpretation instrument in which he can read them. Food quality remains. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Goods and foodstuffs may only be imported in accordance with the applicable strict Austrian regulations; this may Read it under point 1(d). Our strict Austrian environmental and social standards remain fully preserved; Points 5 and 9. Public services serving public services remain in the decision-making area of the national states, as mentioned in point 4. Again, point 5 states that ‘compulsory social security and social security schemes [...] are excluded from the Agreement’. Point 6 (a) provides that Ceta should not lead to ‘preparing foreign to domestic investors’. And the point on which it comes mainly, point 6 f): Private arbitration courts, which in the past were our main criticism point, and the associated hallucination of state jurisdiction have been prevented; they do not come. Instead, public investment jurisdiction comes with appeal and procedural transparency. This is guaranteed now. Point 11 of this statement of interpretation concerns the water, I shall now read it in a word, because it is precisely on this point that the most hairy nonsense is really being told in this debate: ‘CETA shall not require Canada or the European Union and its Member States to allow commercial use of water if they do not wish. CETA fully maintains its ability to decide on the nature of the use and protection of water resources.’ We have here an agreement which has been clearly depleted, an agreement to which the poison teeth have been drawn. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have succeeded in putting an end to socialist politics, to which ex-ceta-lovers are at the heart of our freedom. We put an end to the ignominious debt policy, we put an end to the unscrupulous flow of migrants from all the countries, we put an end to the unscrupulous left-wing genera, we put an end to the improper waste of money. [[Abg. Listen, we're the good guys!]] [[Call to the SPÖ: You are putting an end to the fact-finding policy!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Plessl and Mr Vogl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are doing from Austria what it should be, a land worthy of life for its citizens. That's what we did in return by bringing you out of government. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, I have a question to my colleagues, Kern and Arbitrator, because they are just so united to me: You know that Ceta is an agreement with Canada? . We do not conclude an agreement with any illegal state, we conclude an agreement here with a rule of law, a clearly outraged agreement. Mr. Kern, Mr. Schieder, are you afraid of Canada? I've been there a few times, I'm not afraid of the Canadians.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17670	Mrs Claudia Gamon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17691	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider, Mr Gudenus, would you not like to go on tour with this programme? It's really entertaining, and I would very much like to sell tickets for it, I think that would be well running. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You have now taken the side board, which is on the table a year and a half ago, as proof that everything is right. If I remember correctly, it was a year and a half ago. You're proof that something's going to hide us and there's actually a big conspiracy that all of this isn't meant as it stands in there at all. You get the suspicion that it might never have been so serious at all. However, I would like to focus on the urgent needs of the SPÖ, and Mr Leichtfried wrote in a proposal from December 2017 that the danger of special-clad people remains obvious and would undermine our judicial system. Dear SPÖ! Unfortunately, this is pure populism, and it is also populism regardless of where it comes from. The SPÖ will simply have to be friends with the reputation of fighting free trade – and it is then one – to be a flag in the wind, because the location determines the position. In the opposition it is suddenly different than in the government, and it is actually no longer cynical and evil to claim that the FPÖ and the SPÖ are interchangeable at this point. The term ‘special’ is the one who is false and populist. This is an invention, a populist fantasy image. I would like to answer the question and make a fact-finding check whether, by Ceta, in the proposed investor protection, arbitration courts grant the large companies special culprits. You can look at this very carefully, because, as the FPÖ is now saying, you can take the contract seriously and take what is inside for a cash. That's why we look at it carefully. There is no more classical arbitration with Ceta. Investor actions ISDS are replaced by the ICS Investment Court, which is a transparent process, which is a Court of Justice that works transparently and comprehensiblely. And whoever continues to claim that it is about ISDS, what many critics do, he simply says the untruth; that is simply not true. And that there is at all the possibility of defending itself through complaints against state arbitrariness is not a special clause, but is a standard. This should also be the case, since it is also about the protection of Austrian companies abroad. We should already be pleased that we have legal remedies with which entrepreneurs can defend themselves when states make arbitrary decisions. That's something good in itself, you'd think. However, the arbitration courts, which have always been criticized in the past, are outdated and have not been modern for a long time. That is exactly why Ceta needs it, which is also the reason why it needs the European Commission's proposal for a permanent international court of trade. This is an important step in the process towards a truly global trade court where all procedures are transparent and fair. This would be an insane progress for the entrepreneurs who want to go there, even for small and medium-sized enterprises who could not even afford the previous trial before arbitration courts. This would be particularly beneficial for Austrian companies in the global world. Let us, however, talk in principle about what has changed since 2016 and 2017, because we have been able to discuss the topic of free trade in the House – although not here but at the Ring! At the time, the FPÖ was asking why we need it at all, there is already free trade, why we need additional contracts, we already have them all. Imagine that after the TTIP survey you would have fallen into a winter sleep and would wake up today! Your first thought would probably be: Don't ask these snaps, because what's happened since then is that we're in a very different situation. In contrast to then, today is a fire - threatening narcissist in the White House, which in this short time has managed to bring the whole world close to a global trade war. The EU must now really negotiate serious and serious about permanent exemptions from customs duties. That this could still be possible could not be imagined at all at that time. If it is opportunistic, the American President will help a Chinese company that has been sanctioned because it has ruined important technologies on the North Koreans. With a Tweet you can send the exchange price of a foreign company to nothing. I believe that in view of this one would like to fall back to the winter sleep or perhaps immediately into the coma because one would not wish for this world. That is exactly why proactive free trade policy is all the more important, why it is important to ratify and pass on such modern, progressive free trade agreements, as well as Ceta, and why it was really important to continue negotiating through TTIP at the time. This is all the more painful. This is painful for the Europeans, too. As Donald Tusk said today, Donald Trump only shows us that we are the most important friends ourselves. It's very bad that this has developed so much. We have just reached a time when all these games of thought are no longer panic-making, but have unfortunately become reality.However, we have to ask ourselves, in principle, also in our responsibility as Members, the question which direction we want to go in this decision: Let's stand for decoupling. in the world or for cooperation and free trade? I hope it's the latter. As to how funny it is that the FPÖ has changed its position here, I do not think we need to discuss further. I like to take it that way now. We will continue to measure you in the future when it comes to such questions, by what you have said today, and not by what you said a year and a half ago.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17760	Member of Parliament Peter Kolba is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17782	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The gallery has already taken a little light, but I also welcome the remaining spectators on the gallery and am glad that the live stream is now in progress again, because I would like to try again to explain to the audience what it has to do with this investor protection. If you, dear spectators, pay for a rental apartment rental and the rental rate increases by a change of law, then you have been disappointed in your investment decision, but you have no way to claim damages against the state. This is common to all of us. At Ceta it's like this: If a group from Canada builds a European headquarters, we say, in Linz, and changes the laws and environmental conditions for it, then this group can claim damages within the framework of Ceta from Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] That's the investor protection we're talking about. This is a core of this agreement, which existed before the election, which still exists. This poison tooth has not pulled the dear FPÖ. [[Abg. Little: It's not true at all!]] She didn't pull any poison teeth, but she certainly didn't. This protection of investment, which must be borne in mind, leads to a binding of policy. That is, the threat of complaints makes governments sound. That is the effect of such clauses. And to make one clear: The SPÖ has never expressed itself against this foundation of investor protection, but it does not express itself today in its application. That's what the SPÖ accepts. It only talks about how to enforce this investor protection. We will therefore certainly not agree with this request today. If you, dear spectators, are damaged by the VW diesel scandal – and that was a scandal that basically consisted worldwide in the fact that a global operating group, the VW group, authorities and consumers have deceived about payoffs – if you want to claim damages, then you have to sue them to the ordinary courts in Austria, and you will experience them: These courts are not equipped in such a way that this would be a quick procedure, but we have increasingly long court proceedings in Austria. This approach is not intended to be taken by the Group, and therefore it was first and foremost adjudicated to private arbitrators; in the case of disputes between groups, which are basically also commonplace, i.e. when a group argues with another group, they rarely go to the commercial court, but rather to such arbitration courts. However, this backroom jurisdiction was rightly criticized, and now one is celebrating, without that being finally regulated, that there should be an international investment court, and that is then public and there is a possibility of appeal and then everything is okay. Why can't the companies complain before the ordinary courts of the Republic of Austria? Why is that supposed to be impossible? However, the question also arises: If we introduce international courts, why is there no initiatives to set up an international Court of Justice for global economic crimes such as the VW scandal? [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Consumers have to fight around them everywhere. This cannot be done centrally and quickly against a group that does not act in accordance with the market. The government now wants to implement the ratification of this agreement at present. There is a judgment of ECJ, which calls into question the definition of arbitration courts between private individuals within the European Union, and another procedure is pending, from which the ECJ's statements on the issue of legal protection may be expected in the case of such investor clauses. You don't wait for that, but you want to ratify it as quickly as possible. I can only send a call to civil society, to NGOs, to Attac, Greenpeace, Global 2000, to all those people who have signed the popular desire with more than 560 000 signatures, to all those who bombard us with e-mails. I can only tell them all: Keep going! [[Abg. Loacker:... Infringement of the... Law!]] We will not vote on Ceta until several weeks, and I hope that civil society will make it clear that it rejects this agreement, that it calls for a referendum for which we are also in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17843	Mr Laimer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17865	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor Strache should have gone home already. Ladies and gentlemen, already in 2014, the SPÖ Lower Austria initiated a platform against TTIP, Ceta and Tisa with Attac, the union, the Catholic Workers' and Workers' Movement, via Campesina and many NGOs. Christian Kern has fought in the EU as a German Chancellor, fought very closely, but it was a fight against everyone, because no EU country has questioned the agreement as much as it did in democratic processes as Austria. At the end of the day, Belgium was split, the Wallonia was silenced. Christian Kern has renegotiated many areas, whether it be workers' rights, public health, environmental protection provisions, food protection provisions et cetera, et cetera. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Much was achieved, very much, but not everything could be negotiated in the interests of the people of Europe. A genuine free trade agreement is by no means a bad thing, but it must not become a trade dictatorship, and it must not lead to a trade dictatorship. The blue claims are not truer the louder they are drummed. Today, Mr Rosenkranz has already declared in the “Morgenjournal” that he agrees to Ceta in the sense of the government without If and But. Only the research and the ongoing process of social democracy created transparency within the EU's bureaucrats were the planned agreements, I would remind you, originally planned outside national parliaments for implementation. For example, then President Doris Bures has also fought for agreements to be dealt with in the respective parliaments within the EU. Ladies and gentlemen, the preparedness of global corporations with their unimaginable wealth of power is in principle high. They can cover individual countries with complaints, even financially in ruins. Group policy presents this to us every day and invests millions and millions in top experts and top judges to act in a tax-friendly manner – at the expense of people in Austria, at the expense of people in Europe and at the expense of people around the world, because less money, less tax money means less common economy, ladies and gentlemen. The example of Vattenfall, a Swedish electricity company complaining of the Federal Republic of Germany, should not have been hidden in this room. The German nuclear turnaround was truly a fanal for Vattenfall: How can Germany get out of nuclear power only? Kyoto, Chernobyl – for large corporations, it's about money, it's about coal. [[Abg. New builder: Tell the Voest workers! Tell the Voest workers!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, legal certainty is so important and correct in this regard. The decision of the European Court of Justice did not want to wait for the government. Why is that? Who forces the government to free Ceta with no ifs and buts? During the four-year anniversary of this platform, I had the opportunity to talk to many mayors at information events about TTIP and Ceta, including many ÖVP mayors. I have not found anyone who has voted in favour of this agreement as long as there is no clear legal certainty. A ratification of Ceta is therefore impossible for SPÖs for the reasons mentioned above and, above all, irresponsible for Austria. It was no coincidence that a mayor, the mayor of Traisen, Herbert Thumpser, initiated this popular desire against Ceta. In addition to the 562,000 signatures, there was also the blue ink of FPÖ tips such as straches and yards, and before the ink was dry, Strache and Hofer guaranteed a referendum before Ceta was ratified in Parliament. That was her status a few weeks ago. [[Abg. Höbart: What is this monotonous reading hour?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Suddenly, direct democracy, which you always conjure up, will be sacrificed in a few minutes in the Council of Ministers. Actually, we have a victim government: In short, when smoking, Strache sacrifices at Ceta, people in Austria remain as real victims of your hat games.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17943	Mr Strasser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e17964	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We had already had a very dedicated European debate in the morning, and I would like to continue this debate, which we started in the morning, a little in connection with Ceta, because a value or project that we have in Europe is undoubtedly our common economic area. Two aspects can again be seen in this economic area, one in the internal market and the other in the EU external trade. I say this quite openly: Everything that strengthens the internal market and external trade – and these are two communication vessels – can only be good for prosperity and jobs in Europe. I also see that it is necessary and that, from an Austrian point of view, it makes a historical sense that we are looking for different trading partners and economic partners in the world. We talk to Asia, we talk to Africa, we talk to America, we talk to Australia, and the goal is to enable diversity in the economy and also to generate a certain risk balance. I say quite openly: This strategy has been applied in Austria and Europe for decades and has been blessed with great success. However, I also see a special position, a particular situation of agriculture in Austria and, of course, in Europe, because agricultural policy must never be discussed nationally alone, but at least in a European context. I see that we ourselves – and there we are very ambitious in Austria – are consciously increasing our own standards, and I see that positively, that is already okay. But this must also be paid by someone, the increase in standards must also be possible for farmers. I also see the strategies of the common agricultural policy, which are always aimed at achieving more ecologicalisation in our farms, in the regions, and this will also be paid by the public authorities and, in some cases, also on the shelves. What can't be, however, is that we harm agricultural incomes with products produced to other standards, for example in South America, that damage our markets and endanger our agricultural incomes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Preiner.]] For this reason, I also see Ceta as quite ambitious from the point of view of agriculture. There is the definition of sensitive products there, such as beef, for example pigmeat, in which we secure our own productions through import quotas to European standards. I already see this as a demonstration project, and other trade agreements should go in this direction, just from the perspective of agriculture, with a view to sustainability. For this reason, as often mentioned, Ceta is okay for us. For us, however, the interim results of TTIP are not okay, for us neither is it okay, which is currently pervading from the discussions on Mercosur negotiations, because Austrian and European agriculture need a special position there, and we do not want to be bitters, but that must be just a matter of course in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Preiner.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Selective free trade at ÖVP!]] I have found an exciting speech – in some way colleague Kern is the main actor of our debate this afternoon – a speech from September 2017, where really groundbreaking quotations can be found. Today we were with Matthias Strolz in the Mühlviertel district, also the then vice-chanzer Brandstetter and German Chancellor Kern were in the Mühlviertel district in autumn. Christian Kern mentions our export markets and the opportunities we need to use, because we simply have innovative businesses in our regions. - I agree. Then I see you discussing our role in Europe in September 2017, the quote: “I say quite clearly, I recognise this task of Europe!” – This is about the place in the world economy and that we need to use the voice of Austria in Brussels so that we continue to have economic strength and prosperity in our country and on our continent. I also see in your speech that you are celebrating the successes, and I would like to contradict Mr Ecker. She says that the general care would not be guaranteed. Christian Kern confirms to us last September that this is probably the case and is also the precautionary principle in this additional paper, so to speak. I also see in this speech that you are calling for a debate to be held on the subject, not to celebrate the successes too high, you are glad that there are already intermediate results that are quite positive; but then you say: “But it’s all the wrong thing to construct downfall scenarios and make people afraid.” – I want to stress that. I simply wish, when it comes to trade agreements, an objective discourse, a differentiated discourse, then we will be able to strengthen the Austrian economy and cohesion in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I will mention briefly what is not to be found in your speech, because at that time there was not: This is the further development of investment security. It is true that there will now be publicly legitimated investment courts dedicated to the following three topics: discrimination, expropriation and arbitrariness. The examples that we have now heard in plenary belong to the past, at least in connection with Ceta, and that is why I would like to stress this once again. Christian Kern said that Ceta is the best-negotiated trade agreement of the European Union, and Georg Strasser believes so. – Thank you for the attention, we are on a good path.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18027	Mr Bösch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18048	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you sit in the glasshouse, you can't throw stones. [[Abg. Loacker: The discs are breaking!]] You should have remembered this old saying, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, before you made this urgent request. This urgent request, Mr Schieder, proves that you have made a complete change of course in the matter, which you have not so far seen. [[Abg. Schieder: (keeping a table in the height, on which Heinz-Christian Strache next to the inscription "Because it's about Austria: Binding referendum to Ceta and TTIP" can be seen) Do you want to talk about it?]] [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] They have also tried to use this urgent request to drive a rope between the two current government parties. You won't succeed. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Because you're already lying!]] You will have seen that it is now being re-ruled – unlike the times when you have set the Federal Chancellor, times when it has been about slowing down each other as a coalition partner and preventing the politics of the other and the entire government. That's not happening anymore. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have a coalition made up of partners who work together with confidence and who have been proving for half a year that this republic has been ruling for the first time for many years. For the first time in many years, this republic has been ruling again! It's moving forward! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, proves to us the daily opinion polls and the approval of the people to this government coalition – but also the meeting polls on SPÖ: Downhill is the old Aunt SPÖ and her captain Christian Kern, of which you have to be aware. This urgent request, which you have made today, is not suitable to end this valley ride, let alone slow it down. You have proved here that you cannot take responsibility for the Republic of Austria and its real interests. Mr Leichtfried, you indicated in your speech that nothing had changed in relation to the Ceta Agreement. The Vice-Chancellor has clearly led you to see what has changed, namely the authentic interpretation, and it has led to the clarification of various contractual matters. You yourself have said before, Mr Kern, that you have negotiated in this direction, and that was good. They have negotiated in this direction, and it has now become clear that many things in this Ceta Treaty are not meant that we can maintain our environmental and social standards that food quality will not be affected – you yourself have explained – that the public services in the It is important to ensure that water supply, in particular that we also exclude the mandatory social security systems from this Treaty, that foreign investors should not be favoured against domestic investors under this Ceta Treaty, that a reasonable solution is also available in relation to jurisdiction. You have negotiated this yourself, you explained earlier – and now you say goodbye to all of these results. What Mr Laimer said about I must correct your efforts to make this a mixed agreement: The SPÖ has not made any efforts to ensure the ratification of the Ceta Agreement also in national parliaments; the opposite is the case. Mr Kern, you have tried, at a stage of the development of the ratification of Cetas, to pass this Treaty building on to the Austrian National Council. I quote you from the “Krone” of 4.10.2017; You say there is currently no opportunity in Parliament to implement this free trade agreement, so you will not try it either because you fear rejection in the National Council. So you should also put the truth in the foreground in the history of the genesis of this treaty, and you should be aware of it, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, that this urgent request you have made here today is completely missing.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18134	Now, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr.in Schramböck, has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18156	Madam President. High house! It is still important to me to share with you that Finland has ratified Ceta today, and that also with the votes of the Social Democrats. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS.]] We are not among the first countries that have made their way to ratification, but we are now, as Finland has done so today, the eleventh country on this road – and perhaps one country or another is ahead of us. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I would like to say to Mr Rossmann: Every job is important to me, even in small businesses. The Ceta Agreement makes it to support medium-sized and micro-enterprises. Every job we create there is important to me and I work for each and every one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18204	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18225	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister of Finance! At this point, I think Finland can be congratulated on this penetration from our side. What we are experiencing here in the last hours – 2 hours is now scarce – I find in some way a bit tiring, because it is actually not about the topic – but it would be, I think, very important that we discuss the content – but it is really only about who is more populist, whether that is the FPÖ or whether this is the SPÖ. You sail there on the world sea of commerce a little unorientational to the right and to the left, and the wind that transports you is the wind of populism. I think that the House deserves more, has earned an objective and content-based discussion. [[I would like to congratulate the NEOS and representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: That was real now, wasn't it?]] It is, I believe, essential – listen to me, Mr. Schieder! – that we do not fear globalisation, but that we form it. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That wasn't true either!]] It is in our hands, and that is what must be in the foreground, especially if we want Europe to become a continent of founders and founders. I believe that this is also essential for the further development of global trade, that we attract young companies here, that we give young companies, new companies, small and medium-sized enterprises opportunities to develop. These companies are the ones who currently suffer the most from bureaucracy, the many individual measures. It is much more difficult for small businesses to settle, make progress than for large companies, for the evil, evil corporations that are constantly being addressed. It has already been said – I think it was Col. Strolz –: There are already 62 bilateral trade agreements, which have ratified Austria, 62 agreements, all of which have caused a lot of positive things, and now, because it is very controversial in the public discourse for various reasons – but largely not understandable – we suddenly have these debates, how bad free trade is. I do not find this to be comprehensible, quite honestly. What I do not find comprehensible is the reflex that the FPÖ has had, at least so far, and which also have the SPÖ and the list of mushrooms: The evil corporations are those who benefit from free trade and such trade agreements. – This is simply not true, because a large group has much easier to settle somewhere else and to set up a company there. That's what most people do. For example, the Voest simply produces in North America to deal with the current barriers to trade. For small and medium-sized enterprises this is not as easy as possible, they sit in Austria and have the customs barrier, which is much more difficult for them. Accordingly, the large corporations are partly even pleased with trade barriers, they say: Yeah, great, they won't come to us! This is the best thing that can happen to them, because in the end the customs duties do not pay the companies, but the consumer; he is the one who pays at the end. I know that this is more than half a sentence and, accordingly, in a populist demand, it is not easy to understand and write to a poster, but I think it is essential that we discuss this fact and not always say that large corporations are the ones that benefit. Finally, one thing that is important to me; I believe that this should really be in the foreground in the parliamentary discourse: In the last 2 hours, I've sometimes felt like we're here in the circus. I know there's a circus dying, it's also a headline that's been swirling around over the last ten years. [[Abg. Neubauer:... insulting artists!]] – I don’t insult artists, don’t worry! In the debates we had here today, it was only about who made more backsalts, and quite honestly, dear SPÖ and dear FPÖ: If that goes on, make a circus together! I believe that this could be very successful and that a lot of people would be happy.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18308	The next item is Mrs Dipl.-Ing.in Martha Bißmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18329	Madam President. A wonderful afternoon out of the High House, dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What the government intends with Ceta is a betrayal of small-scale Austrian agriculture and our environment. Why Make That's what you do? The decisions made by the government in recent weeks, which you have contributed as a Member of Parliament, are slowly giving a clear but equally disturbing picture. On the example of the pig deal: You have made the pig deal with China big, you have celebrated it in the last few days. Why? – You have succeeded in making a deal with China that allows Austrian pigmeat to be exported freely to China, namely exactly the parts that are considered as offal products here in Austria, i.e. the mussels, the quails and the tails. [[Abg. Wooger: Earwash!]] [[Abg. Wögerer: Don't eat anyone at home!]] In China this is considered a delicacy. Now it is true that exactly these offal products are not affected by this deal, that is, the good parts of the pig will be exported to China. Ceta is remedying this, because through Ceta we can import cheap pigmeat from Canada, across the globe: Canada–Austria–China, tens of thousands of kilometers! Is it even more environmentally harmful, climate-final, absurd? – It goes, with the investor protection clauses. These allow companies to sue States for damages if national legislation is in any way harmful to profits. [[Abg. Little: Just not! Don't! Read it through, please!]] That is, Ceta grants foreign investors more rights than domestic investors and domestic consumers, and that will not change public courts either. The environmental policy is being counter-carriaged by Ceta in large styles, and environmental, nature and animal protection standards can be undermined. Environmental and climate protection must be protected against investor protection, but Ceta is protected against environmental and climate protection. Mr Haider, you have read out some of the documents that are intended to say that national animal welfare standards, nature conservation standards and so on are not at risk by Ceta. That is what you said, Mr Strache. [[Abg. Little: That's right, too!]] The document from which you read is an additional declaration to the Treaty, which does not change by it, that is, this additional declaration can never be more than a political confession – which would be good, you might think you are serious; but because of your current crash, you may not believe it. [[Abg. Little: The same is in the Ceta Agreement! Read the Ceta contract!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hairer]] I have to admit, your behavior regarding Ceta, dear FPÖ, fascinates me. I haven't seen anyone who can play the back, the head stand and the purple tree at the same time, all at once, and you've managed this piece of art. In November 2017, Federal Minister Strache, you called for a referendum on Ceta. This morning, the FPÖ has faithfully complied with its government commitments and, together with its governing partner, the black widow with the pink fingernails, has voted for the ratification of the Ceta agreement – a great turner art, however: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] [[Congratulation with the list of mushrooms and with representatives of the SPÖ]] Those who bring together the role backward, the head stand and the purple tree at the same time can have no backbone. ==References====External links== "The Austrian population has a right to self-determination and does not want a dictatorship of large corporations and lobbyists". – Has his opinion changed because you have just received this view of government, with a party of large corporations and lobbyists? Do you like to join the feeder of these companies, about which you, FPÖ, once watered? Some would call it hypocrites I don't do this, because first of all nobody buys you the appearance, and you won't be holy either. [[Abg. Worm: Well! Come on!]] [[Abg. Loacker: “Sham Saint” is normally a call for order!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: For “hypocritical” I have received an order call!]] I call the betrayal: Betrayal of your own principles, betrayal of your voters and the final effect of betrayal of the Austrian population. [[Abg. Little: I would discuss that once in my own party!]] We from the Pilz list demand a referendum, the logical next step after 560 000 signatures in popular desire against TTIP, Ceta and Tisa. Let us decide on this matter the Sovereign, the Austrian people, it is very often right!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18490	Mr Mag. Gerald Loackeris the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18514	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Bissmann has yet to practice what SPÖ and FPÖ already have in their fingers: You always have to say the word "groups" with an undertone that signals conspiracy – but that's what's going to happen. We have now often missed out on the political nature of the social democrats and the national social democrats, but I do not want to go further now; someone else would be unscathed, because the EIA has also demonstrated its momentum today. I guess the Openness is high when Mr Strasser comes out and takes a position on Mercosur, because there is no populism either. Minister Köstinger has been on the Ministry's homepage: ‘The approach proposed by the European Commission to a wide range of concessions (prior to higher quotas or rapid reduction of customs duties) for products sensitive to Austria, in particular ‘Quality Beef’, cereals, sugar and ethanol, is ‘not supported’ by the BMNT – the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism – and this, although only very small quotas are involved and the European Union as a whole would benefit significantly from the agreement with Mercosur. [[Abg. Strasser: At Mercosur?]] These two economic areas, the EU and Mercosur, exchange goods in value of EUR 90 billion per year, while agricultural goods and raw materials come to Europe, and we export machinery and chemicals – that is, it is obvious that we are the profiters of trade. The reduction of customs duties alone would bring European companies cost savings to billions. And now the peasants come and say: Yes, but this agreement will not be so! [[Abg. Strasser: But this is serious, Mr President. That's very serious for us, though! ... Ms. Double Bauer!]] The EU is currently negotiating 20 different free trade agreements, and if the Austrians believe each time they have to perform a special circus, because the EU Commission is doing exactly what it is supposed to do, namely trade policy, then you are ridiculous, then Austria is ridiculous, and you are harming the location. [[Abg. Strasser: But you need to talk to your agricultural speaker!]] It's nice to hear what Minister Schramböck says, it's nice when I hear what Mr Haubner says, what Mr Niss says, but you, Mr Strasser, all of this has been a hundred percent counter-carriage.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18594	Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Andreas Schieder. [[Abg. Arbitrator points to Abg. Core.]] [[Call: It can't rip this out anymore...]] – Mr Klubobmann Mag speaking. Christian Kern. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18645	Ladies and gentlemen! This was really an interesting debate with many facets, and in fact I should not have spoken at all, you have done it in detail; the colleagues from the FPÖ, the colleagues from the ÖVP, have quoted me here, that is really grateful. [[call to the FPÖ]] However, I find it particularly remarkable that you come here and read to me the interpretation agreement on Ceta, which I myself signed with Mr Juncker, whom my chief cabinet agreed with Mr Selmayr, because it was exactly this agreement, which is why I said that this agreement is all right – it was all right yesterday, it's all right today, it's all right tomorrow. That is why we have chosen a procedure to separate this agreement in that part of trade policy and in that part of investor protection. There's nothing else we're talking about today, that's the question. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haider and Mr Rosenkranz.]] That is why I am still in favour of the statement that this is a very, very good agreement that the European Union has negotiated there, but it can still be improved in many parts. We can now improve it and now stand at the place where we have to ask ourselves: What is the future of the trade agreements in Europe? This separation, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed a considerable opportunity, and the crucial question we have to answer today – so far it has not answered anyone from you, even the colleagues from NEOS; You're very happy to forgive notes, I've noticed, but you haven't given the decisive answer – it's like: Why are Austrian courts not good enough for Canadian companies and investors? Why is that so? Why should this apply only to the Austrian companies? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP have stated that Canada is, as it were, a nation that is accountable, civilized and obliged to the rule of law. That's quite right. Why should Austrian companies on the Canadian market not be able to rely on Canadian jurisdiction? – The crucial answer is this: because these rules on investor protection, to the arbitration courts offer very specific rights for a very small number of investors and companies, and we simply do not want to do so! They can be pulled over the table by non-Austrian interests. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff of the NEOS, you have accused us and colleagues from the FPÖ – in this community we do not feel particularly comfortable, therefore you understand that I am a bit depressing – we are going through a circus number. So if you think we're going on tour like circus clowns, we'll take you as one-trick pony, because what you're delivering is just ideology, the pure, naked ideology. Mr Strolz was very funny today. He does this with charm, and you can quite take what he says, only in the thing it is not right. If you say, without these private arbitration courts, without these special courts, in whatever form, you will lead Austria and the European Union towards North Korea, and then come with the prize bear number and say: 62 of these agreements we have concluded, I say to you: You've been sleeping the last few months and the legal development. The European Court of Justice has stated in the Achmea judgment that there is a single body to interpret European law and that is the ECJ and remains the ECJ. This means that there is a tendency in the case law, which is clear on the sun. The European Commission is smarter than you, because it has already come to the point that it is being led into a dead end. This is precisely the reason why, in the Japanese agreement, which, in its economic significance, is much greater than what is at Ceta, the arbitration courts, the special courts for large investors no longer exist. They've understood it, but you're still limping behind the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For decades, the ÖVP has been presenting the Commissioner for the EU, now the Minister for Europe; ask how the Brexit negotiations with Mr Barnier are going on, which is one of the crucial points! – A Red Line for the European Union, which reads as follows: European law is only interpreted by the ECJ. That is a crucial condition. The British now have the same ideas as with Ceta and Co, and in the European Commission and in the European Council it has been said that it is not accepted, it is not allowed to go through, because there is an authority which is public-law, which is under democratic policy and is legitimated. And we will all be well advised if we do not allow the rule of law to be eroded. That is why this debate is going on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In these discussions, which you have quoted in detail, we have really developed an opportunity for Austria; the chance that we in Austria will decide independently whether we want special rights for international investors in Austria or not. My answer is clear: I don't want these! I have never made a living out of it, I have always said that we are not going to present this agreement to Parliament for ratification, because then we are saving the whole of the Cinnamon, the whole extortionability. I can tell you, Mrs tiny – I do not know where you were, I believe, in one; I have already been in a few others and I have done without end to arbitration – these are levers that you get in hand there, which go far beyond political choices, over parliaments, beyond democratic rules of play. [[Abg. Strasser: She is independent!]] I simply do not want to do so, because I do not want a Europe of people, not a Europe of markets and, Mr Loacker, even a Europe of large companies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The FPÖ has the habit of having an intellectually undercritical debate in such situations; it then comes with debt, asylum or anything else. Perhaps you have considered why it is now that the number of asylums in Austria is falling. [[Abg. Höbart: Because the SPÖ is no longer in the government!]] Perhaps you have also considered why crime is at a ten-year lowest level. Perhaps you have once considered why economic growth and job offers are at record level. – Maybe you will do this once before the next time you will torment us with your prefabricated sayings again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] Another point: I understand your punishment, because if you look at the invaders of the FPÖ, at the monitoring package, at Ceta, at the direct democracy, at the tuition fees and so on, then you can say that you actually have every reason to divert, and in this case I must say quite rightly, because of the greatest crasher you've shown so far, of the biggest breezn you've torn, we all have today become witnesses to each other. [[Abg. Höbart: This is almost a parody appearance!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18759	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 229/A(E) by Members. Cores, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Rejection of CETA and group members’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[17:27:12]] Short debate on the written answer to the question 249/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18797	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Public Service and Sport with the order number 249/AB. The answer to the question has already been distributed, so that there is no reading. We are going into the debate. You know the business time limits. As the first signatory, I give the floor to Mrs Cox. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18832	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor Strache! In fact, I would have liked to have a short debate on this question, but it will now be a tight debate; I am content with it because the request has been made to him as well. Before I come to the details of the request, I would like to briefly explain how this request came about. ==References====External links== January 2018, Chancellors Kurz, Deputy Chancellors Strache, Federal Minister Fässmann and Landeshüfmann Schützenhofer attended a folk school in Graz. School visits by politicians are nothing new, but there is no immediate objection either, because from a certain age of children such events can serve political education, for example panel discussions – if several political groups are invited – and, of course, the Minister of Education is also entitled to carry out the quality review at schools. The school visit in January 2018 does not belong to this category for me. He was used to present party-political ideas in front of the collected press, namely to the German funding classes. As I looked through the media reports, I found this photo – I thought there was something funny – which shows how you, Mr. Strache, write autographs during this visit; very exciting. [[keeping a poster in height]] This photo has already made me bluffy. It then came to pass that I made a request because not only did I get that photo. As you know, parliamentary questions are an expression of the basic democratic principle. However, this function can only be fulfilled if the replies of the competent members of the Federal Government are the basis for effective control. We from the Pilz list have not only promised in the election campaign that we want to ensure that we stand for transparency and also want to bring it to Parliament, and that is why this instrument of questions is a very, very important one for us. [[Consistency with the list of mushrooms]] For those – including the fellow citizens and the ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens – we want to offer transparency – who ask themselves what is a request: A request is an instrument by which we can ask ministers about their activities, about their topics and get an answer within two months. In addition, requests and their response represent an important source of information for the public – once again a keyword of transparency – about the work of the administration. That is why this is also a very important tool for you, ladies and gentlemen, in front of the screens! In February, to rewind, I asked for the school visit, and then I also received a timely reply. What surprised me and alerted me at the same time is that chancellors and vice chancellors just didn't give me any answers, almost no answers. To a large extent, the answers are that you do not feel responsible. Now, of course, I ask myself the question: As what or who, in what function were you at this school? – You were in office as Vice Chancellor or Mr Sebastian Kurz as chancellor at school, so why I didn’t get any answers to it is enigmatic for me. To this end, important parliamentary control instruments will be trampled with feet if requests are not answered. Thank you very much, Mr National Council President Sobotka, as you can see from the media, said in this regard and said that a member of the Federal Government has to give a reason why a request response does not fall within his or her sphere of competence; a reason which I have not received on this request. From the chancellor's side Short or vice chancellor Strache did not happen, as has been said. The President of the National Council also pointed out that this control instrument must be taken seriously, and I would like to stress this once again. It must be taken seriously, it is an important instrument, and if it is not taken seriously, it is a clear disregard for parliamentary control. You cannot simply shift your responsibilities and your justifications towards Parliament to the Minister for Education, as happened at this request. It is not an individual case either. We often have such discussions – and I hope that we will not have them more often. We'll see. Again on this particular case: On the one hand, it is generally about reply, and on the other hand, I would like to point out something else. They answered a question, and this question was about the parents' consent to photos and videos of their children, whether they can be shown together with government members and representatives of parties, whether there is parental consent. – You answered with Yes, and that is not quite the truth. I was very surprised that you answered with Yes, and then I asked for it. If you look at this photo now, you can see the three mentioned people, the politicians – actually politicians – together with a choir, with a children's choir. [[keeping another poster in height]] You can remember, Mr. Strache! It was apparently so that the parents of the children of the class you visited knew about it. It was asked the day before that, they were told. The parents of the children from the choir did not even know that this event will take place, let alone that a permission has been requested, let alone that what is so important in this case has been asked for a declaration of consent from the parents. That is, this photo shows children singing, and the parents didn't even know that this visit was going to take place. [[Call the FPÖ: That's not true! Where did you get this?]] Especially the publication of children's photos, many of you have children, must happen with high sensitivity – with high sensitivity! It is particularly problematic when photos are used for party policy purposes, just as it happened in this case, for example in the video of Sebastian Kurz, wherever you see this choir, illustrated with the political representatives. I would like to say once again, it is not necessarily a question of the need to ban school visits by politicians, but school visits by government members, so to speak, in a press conference on party policy education policy, one must say, in an absolute contradiction to school law, if one looks at the 2008 circular, which by the way must also be updated. In 2008 Facebook was founded, that is, we are now in another age. It is noted that there is a need to ensure that policies are informed objectively, pluralistically and objectively, and that no party policy should be pursued by individuals and advertising materials. I therefore ask the question: Autograph cards? No promotional material? Especially in this newsletter, it is also pointed out that we have a latent advertising effect. That's very important, and you know that best, Mr. Strache. You will surely be recognized on the street, you have a latent advertising effect. I would now like to make the following request because I have received very few answers: ‘The National Council wants to decide: ‘The reply to Question No 257/J by Mr Stephanie Cox, Mr BA, colleagues, on the inadmissibility of party political advertising to schools by the Federal Minister for Public Service and Sport, is not taken note of.’ That's one point. You know, I came to this house to work solution-oriented. I really expected more solution-oriented approaches here. I have zero interest in trampling around on your head, but I expect you to have a solution-oriented access to this topic and, if we are already talking about the new style, we have a real new style. Especially in the digital age, we need to inform parents and children and strengthen them. I noticed, especially in the conversations I had with parents, that they were totally insecure. They do not know how to deal with such situations, because in the digital age the photos and videos remain on the web. In this awareness, we must deal with this situation in policy and take the appropriate measures. It is about protecting the personal rights of our children. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] The first step has already been taken by National Council President Sobotka, I hope that in the future it will not be so easy to get away with unpleasant questions from Members. If someone is not responsible, a justification will definitely help to understand that. Finally, I would point out to you that party politics in school has not lost anything. In fact, this should be clear by the corresponding paragraphs in the School Education Act and the corresponding 2008 round letter, but obviously there are some members in the government who have not now been so aware of it. So I ask you, Mr Strache, and Mr Kurz, to do your homework carefully, otherwise I must tell you -
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18894	Ladies and gentlemen, you must come to the conclusion now. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18910	My final sentence, and this final sentence is very important: otherwise I have to ask you to the board and have you write a hundred times as a penalty task: no government propaganda to schools!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18937	The application for non-knowledge of the written reply is under negotiation. Mr. Heinz-Christian Strachezu has now spoken. – Mr Vice-Kanzler, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e18964	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Especially to the students of the HTL Steyr, who are a guest at the gallery today, a quite warm greeting to God! [[General condolences.]] Mrs Cox, it is of course your undisputed right as a Member of the House to ask questions to the members of the Federal Government. Interpolation law is a very essential and important right. I have lived this very intensively in my time as a representative and opposition politician in the House, and that is also important. As a Member of Parliament, however, we should also know which Minister is to be asked what question. That too is a very important point. Perhaps it would be a good idea to take back the experience of Peter Pilz and perhaps to take further assistance from him at this point. Nor would it be useful to send a request to the Minister for Agriculture to defend the country. In her name is the land inside, but otherwise she has little to do with matter. This aspect must, of course, be taken into account accordingly when it comes to the right of interconnection. This right applies precisely to administrative operations that take place under the responsibility of a supreme institution. It does not cover operations which do not fall under the responsibility of the supreme institution. This is clearly regulated by the law, and that is why you have also received this answer to all the questions where I have no competence. I could give you an answer to the one question because the Minister of Education, Professor Fäsmann, as the minister responsible, has very well confirmed to me and to us that there was, of course, a declaration of consent from the director, but also the parents of the students concerned. We were not as party politicians in this school, no, we were as government representatives in this school. Mr. Federal Chancellor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Mr. Education Minister were not in party political function at this school. And you have to take note of that. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kolba.]] This government has taken a significant educational step in the interests of an improved education system, namely German skills before entering school. You may not like this, and you reject this important government decision, but this is an essential contribution to the fact that we can get under the arms of the students who do not have basic knowledge of the German language in time for them to follow the lessons so that they can successfully complete the school and then have a chance in daily life. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is precisely this area that is important to us, and it is clear how important it is to us. It's less important to you, I know. It is important for us that a new wind finally blows in the field of education, I must say quite openly. We can then dispute about the contents, but please already on the basis of facts and not on the basis of false assumptions. I would therefore like to say once again: Yes, party politics has lost nothing to schools and educational institutions. That's where I'm totally with you, I fully support you. But as I said, We were also not on the ground as party politicians, but as government representatives. If you are talking about party-political agitations, I would like to say that there are these in our schools. That's right. The ORF once again confirmed yesterday in a contribution, which was very interesting, that this is unfortunately going on and going on. In the “ZIB 20” there was a report on the ban on mobile phones at schools in which a teacher was shown, who collected mobile phones with a wooden box. And there was very clearly visible to see that on this wooden box a sticker of socialist youth was attached, graphically based on a ban sign, with a stretched-out photo of the Federal Chancellor and my ability. This political propaganda has really lost nothing in school. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Bravo! That's unheard of, that's it!]] This was very well documented yesterday in the “ZIB 20”, and we should really see that such things do not happen, no question. Other: Please note that the requests must also be addressed to the appropriate ministers, then you will also receive your desired answers. [[Abg. Scherak: You are responsible!]] If you don't do that, you can't expect it either, that's just the way it is, and you have to return it correctly. So it is important to point this out. Peter Pilz would have this experience, that wouldn't have happened.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19048	Next word reported: Mr Karl Nehammer. From now on, the speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19070	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear students and visitors to the gallery! Dear Seers! If you look at the question answered by Federal Minister Fässmann, the minister responsible, you can see that this is very detailed. [[Abg. Cox: It's not about that now! I invited Mr. Strache!]] [[Abg. Mölzer: “Preloaded”?! We're not in court!]] It is strong over eight pages and also gives the necessary answers to the questions that have been raised. Parliamentary questions are important, are an important asset. On page 5 there is also a clear answer to your comments regarding parental consent, namely that the consent has been obtained and was very well granted. [[Abg. Cox: That was not the question!]] [[Abg. Kolba: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Mölzer: From school too! Read it!]] I think, rather, that the vice chancellor has emphasized here, that school visits are quite, very important. They give us, as politicians, responsibilities and responsibilities, the opportunity to recognise school problems in good time. As the Vice-Chancellor has already explained, the German funding classes are such a measure, which has arisen from an intensive dialogue with the teachers, also with affected students. I would like to give an example here, because not only should one speak theoretically of what effect German funding classes can have; for this reason there was also the school visit: In Wiener Neustadt, we have a mayor, Klaus Schneeberger, who has taken over a city under the most difficult circumstances, who was previously socially democratic. [[Cheerfulness with NEOS and list fungus.]] There is a folk school with a class occupied with more than 90 percent children who do not speak German as a language of use. And here comes the substantial difference between the previous governments and this new government with the new People's Party and the Austrian Freedom Party, namely that one looks at these problems and accepts them. What did Klaus Schneeberger do? – Klaus Schneeberger, the mayor of Wiener Neustadt, has gone here and set up a German funding class. [[Abg. Noll: Stay with the thing!]] [[Abg. Mölzer: The thing is not a thing!]] And already after three months, children have been able to make measurable progress, namely, 70 percent in the acquisition of language skills. After only three months! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This gives these children the opportunity to have a fair education, genuine integration and participation in school education. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: It's about advertising in school!]] And that was exactly the visit - - – Mrs. Colleague, thank you very much! [[Abg. Kuntzl: Talk about the subject! It's about advertising in school!]] School visits are important. I have here documented one of Mr. Kern in the “Kronen Zeitung” or here in the “Today” with a perhaps funny picture text: [[Showing copies of newspaper reports]] “SP ministers and students in the math contest. Education Minister Hammerschmid and infrastructure minister Leichtfried visited yesterday the 1B of the NMS Gellergasse. Lightenfried lost the math duel on the tablet against the eleven-year-old students there.” – This is a newspaper report, not from me. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] So you see – and that is, I think, the important thing – how important school visits are, but also how important the preparation and follow-up of teachers is when they take place. And we're all d'accord here in the high house: Party policy advertising has lost nothing in schools. But if I look at the students of the HTL – in the case of students, as far as I can see – who sit here on the gallery, I would like to tell you from this point of view: The discourse with you is also a question of the future and very important to us. Therefore: Thank you for visiting here because parliamentarianism and democracy are also living on this exchange. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ]] Yes, see problems, see problems, solve problems – this is what the new People's Party with the Freedoms, the Austrian Federal Government stands for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19256	The next item is Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19282	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! It is our democracy's mission that politicians also go to schools, such as panel discussions and workshops to bring young people closer to how politics works, to create laws and to conduct discussions. It is our duty to go outside and communicate: fair, democratic, informative and participative, so that citizens, including future voters in this case, know about political diversity in the Austrian party landscape. It is the personal and moral obligation not to abuse our activity for a position of authority or for personal advantage, but to convey it. I think in connection with this schooling it is very difficult that autograph cards and the like have been distributed. This is not only problematic, it is even forbidden. The local eyelight is one thing, but the distribution of advertising materials – and nothing else are autograph cards – is the other. [[Abg. Gudenus: You haven't done anything else for decades! That's inconceivable!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Shame!]] Instead of a media-active photo shoot, it might be more useful to devote itself to the appropriate design and financing of the Austrian school system and not to starve at it, such as in the field of the whole day school. And, unfortunately, that we are discussing a non-extensive response to the question today is not the first time in the GP either. That must also be said. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] Why is this short debate important and critical? – I think it shows us one thing, especially the brilliance and urgency of the subject of political education. It is about giving pupils, future voters the tool to reflect such visits accordingly, to analyze the arguments independently and to form their own opinions. But this is not only about physical visits by politicians, but also about the massive presence of politics and its representatives on social media channels, because they clearly offer new opportunities and quadrilateral areas for fake news and co, and we must not ignore that. That is why it is important to bring the subject of political education before the curtain, to devote an even greater space to school education, for example as an independent, neutral school subject in all school types, in order to give students, future voters the best chance to prepare for their democratic duty, and this not only at the first time that they do their minstrel at the constituency, but every time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19336	Next: Mr Wendelin Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19360	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate High House! Appreciated spectators on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Whoever can read is clearly in advantage. This applies, I believe, not only in the field of education and education, but obviously also here in the House, because there are obviously a few colleagues who can't quite do that. Mrs Cox! You have asked three questions, and you have done it briefly: one to Mr Bundeskanzler, one to Mr Vice-Chancellor and one to Mr Fässmann. On the one hand, they have overlooked that this does not fall within the competence of German Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors. This is clearly referred to, so I do not see an inadequate response to this question, but rather an answer corresponding to it in the context of the law of interconnection. And you have received from Professor Fässmann an almost ten-page answer, in which your coating printing in your request is very detailed in all parts and clearly clarified that it is by no means a criminal or otherwise legally relevant story. Rather, it is – and you have obviously successfully gone into the teaching of colleagues Pilz – pure story-telling, layer prints in the context of a request in which you are subject to criminal acts, but where you hide behind immunity, and that is simply not all right. Federal Minister Fässmann has already broken down the content of your request accordingly. The fact that you then demand a brief debate to answer the Vice Chancellor's question and not to that of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic indicates even more that it is not a question of information, but that it is only about the show in here that you want to print a glass and make an elephant out of a fly. [[Intervocations with the list of fungus]] [[Call at the SPÖ: There is a greater likelihood that he will come!]] It's just an immense thing and it's really so obvious that it's ridiculous again. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But this short debate is a good opportunity to talk about party politics at schools. No question, we all agree: Party policy, political indoctrination must not happen in schools. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is particularly true of my dear colleagues from the Pilz list: Your predecessor party, your spiritual fathers, the Greens, have always gleamed large when it came to disseminating advertising material in front of schools, have always gleamed when it came to using teachers and the like for themselves. We are here in such examples as the Vice-Chancellor has already brought, where teachers – and this is not a single case, but often it happens – fail to perform party-political indoctrination in classrooms. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is no need to think about it when the Federal Chancellor, the Vice-Cancellor and the Minister of Education of this Republic visit a school to get examples from the practice there. Mrs Cox! I'm good at it. Your address reminds you that you said you were tramping through Austria to get practical examples. That's important, I'm totally here with you. Unfortunately, I can't make it that unofficial anymore, I'm now also a member of the National Council, I have to go through a procedure to attend a school. I'm not worried at all that there's some sort of party-political influence on my person's part, but if I want to get practical examples, that's not that easy, and that's good. But now we don't need to construct any layers that didn't happen. But let us talk about this party political indoctrination, let us consider what happens, for example, in teacher training. I currently know a case of the BH Salzburg, where a teacher training event on the subject of political education took place. In fact, the speakers are already being selected to ensure that it is against the FPÖ, but also against the ÖVP, there is only a look at how to convey a negative image as far as possible, even the teachers, and that goes on into the classrooms, of course. We should talk about this and not talk about such constructed stories! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, we also need to consider the extent to which the presence of politicians in schools is balanced. I know from the past that the former colleague Julian Schmid was invited to, I think, hundreds of school discussions, and I have always wondered: How's it going, how's he got all those invitations? Then there are no uniform rules on how schools can deal with them. We also have to assume that there is a balance and not an influence by – in that case – teachers or, in some cases, individual students to indoctrinate in one direction or another. [[Abg. Rosary: More like weak learners!]] This is an important point, which we will look at, but let us take this kind of layer printing – you have obviously been successfully taught by Mr Pilz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19439	Next: Mr. Dr. Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19460	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! One can now discuss content for a long time about how party politics in school has something to look for – I am actually of the opinion: nothing – but one can also seriously discuss the question of how the law of interconnection has been dealt with here. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I do not think that Mr Cox needs further assistance from an experienced Member in order to ask the right questions. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] But if we are already in the teaching logic, I would suggest that you look for someone who was a longer minister and who explains to you what is part of your execution and what is not. In fact, you have not been able to answer questions which, of course, fall within your scope, and that is why it is true that we are now discussing this. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] There is this old story of the former President of the National Council, Maleta, who once told me about Old Federal President Fischer. Maleta said: It is in the Constitution that Members may ask questions, but it is nowhere inside that the Minister has to answer. – It is similar with some questions that have been addressed to you here. Yes, there are questions that concern only the Minister for Education, that is quite clear, but if one question is: “Was the vice chancellor aware of the inadmissibility of the school visit [...]?” I ask you: What area of execution than yours should this fall into? We cannot ask the Minister for Agriculture whether she knows if you knew about the inadmissibility. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Lindner.]] That can only be you, everything else doesn't work logically. “Did the Vice-Cancellor know before the visit whether the consent of the school board [...] was obtained [...]?” – I can only ask you if you had knowledge of something, that can only fall into your execution area. I can't ask my colleague Nehammer or anyone else, that's just you. On the question of whether advertising material has been distributed on the occasion of the visit, you can discuss it all, but if you – let's take it hypotheticalally – who would have participated, then this is also your execution area, because I assume that you take your own advertising material with you and not the Federal Chancellor for you your autograph cards. So, of course, it is your area of action in the context. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] The problem is what we have been discussing for some time since the new government was in place, namely dealing with Parliament. We have already discussed this today that the Federal Chancellor is for the time being absent – as has been said, constitutionally permissible, but it is a bad style. We had the discussion about the laws that the Ministry of Finance somehow wanted to shudder in back. At the very beginning of the legislative period, we had the question whether it would be useful for a national council president not to know whether she would be a national council president or rather become a minister. That's what we had. Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have rightly said that you have been here long enough in the house and you know of course what such requests are for: because parliamentary control is important. You know, of course, that it's the way you answered here – or as you've been answered here for you; You do not write the answers to the questions yourself, which is also good, because otherwise you would probably no longer get out of the answer to questions – that this is not all right. You know that parts that have not been answered here naturally concern your execution area – at least parts! You have, as I have said, answered to the questions I have raised that you are not concerned. Of course that concerns you! Since you know this – and I am convinced of it: Talk to your cabinet and tell the competent cabinet staff who have answered here on a flat-rate basis 20 questions that concern you, of course, at least in parts: “These questions do not concern the execution of my area of competence”, that if you go somewhere that concerns your area of responsibility very well, then we could save ourselves such debates in the future. [[Abg. New builder: No! That's nonsense!]] – Mr Neubauer obviously knows something else. That is, if Mr Vice-Chancellor goes somewhere, I will ask the Chancellor in future – I am excited if he will give me the answer – or perhaps with the Minister of Agriculture, or I will ask you, Mr Neubauer. [[Abg. Neubauer: You have... decision!]] I think the right to interact is clear: When it comes to the execution of the Vice-Chancellor, I ask Mr Vice-Chancellor – and that would have been very simple answers in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19552	The next item is the speech by Mr Alfred Noll. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19573	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! There are usually two options: Either someone doesn't want or he can't. Mr Vice-Chancellor, I am afraid you are the unique case of incompetence. They tell us, of course, here in the House - I have written - that “we were a government representative in this school”. Are you a government representative on the road or in enforcement of the laws? There's nothing else. – Yes, of course, this is your execution area if you yourself assume that you were there as a government representative. [[Congratulations with list Pilz, SPÖ and NEOS.]] You have not set in motion your entourage, the chauffeur, the security service and the entire propaganda machinery of the Federal Government because you have attended a school for private purposes. [[Abg. Schimanek: Go, go, go!]] Of course, you did this in enforcement of the laws. [[Abg. Listen:...! That's crazy!]] Now tell us that the Minister for Education had answered in detail. He's answered the wrong thing, and you can know that. [[Call to the FPÖ: Why didn't you ask the Minister of Education?]] If you're going to a school – now I'm showing this beautiful picture again, because it's really not only illustrative, it's actually a classic means of proof – if you pack so many autograph cards into your hand as you can just grab hold, and throw the kiddies at the neck as a Michael-Jackson replacement, what else is this as a propaganda event in the party political sense? [[towards Vice-Kanzler Strache]] [[Keeping an image in height, the Federal Chancellor's Short and Vice Chancellor's Street in the midst of young people, while they write autographs]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Or have these autograph cards been provided to you by the school there? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lausch and Mr Wöginger.]] - Probably. The really critical point that you all probably don't want to hear, because you're just too unnecessary – and that's really a serious thing – is this: The Minister of Education has replied that there would be an agreement for film recordings – as if that had been of any relevance under § 78 of the Copyright Act! These pictures – colleague Cox is a friendly person, I no longer remain friendly – come from the BKA homepage. [[Keeping the previously mentioned image in height]] No human – no government representative and no member of your cabinet – has asked the competent parents whether the images can be used in this way. This is a very clear violation of § 78 Copyright Law, and this government takes care of it with a damp throat, and that is a scandal, Mr. Vice-Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19697	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting. We are voting on Mrs Stephanie Cox's request, ladies and gentlemen, not to take note of the answer to the question. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of not knowing a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[Call the SPÖ:Klarer Rechtsbruch!]] [[18:05:36]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19730	I will resume the negotiations on Agenda items 6 and 7. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gerald Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19767	Madam President. Estimated President of the Court of Auditors! From the mutual exchange of party policy back to the Court of Auditors reports: It was about the report on minimum security, and I would like to go a little back on what we have experienced on the subject of minimum security in recent years. In 2010 it was introduced, and Rudi Hundstorfer said that it was calculated with 13,000 permanent referees. History has shown very quickly that there is nowhere to go, and already in 2012 the folk assistance has found construction errors in the minimum security. It has already noted at that time that the harmonisation of the land regulations has not worked at all, that each federal country has its own plant and that the place of residence is crucial to the situation of life. However, all of this has continued for years until Wifo-Chair Badelt, who is not exactly known for being around him, identified “political failure” in the minimum guarantee in November 2016. In March 2018, the Constitutional Court repealed the provisions of the State of Lower Austria concerning minimum security. In July 2017, the report, which we are only discussing, and the report states, among other things, that the Federal Government has not yet adopted its constitutional right to set uniform or harmonised rules in the field of minimum security. The Federation could do something and not do it. In the Government Convention, this project is on page 118, so let us be optimistic that something is coming, namely a basic social assistance law in accordance with Article 12 para. 1 Federal Constitutional Act. With this principle law, the Federal Government would also have the possibility to move more towards benefits in kind in the case of minimum security, away from the cash benefits. One would have the opportunity to take the countries a little bit to the kandare and to create a more uniform system. This is also something that Minister Blümel still called for when he was a city councillor in Vienna, but until now the government has been honored by the fact that much has been announced and most of the announcements have been made in a form that the political debate in the public has broken down all the projects, because it may not always have been very ideal from the way of access. All agree that it needs this uniform minimum guarantee in Austria. Let's not wait any longer! I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[18:09]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19865	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next, Mrs. Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19891	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! The current discourse on minimum security, as is the case with many other issues, will lead mainly to the fact that national leaders and members of the Federal Government align each other to what direction it should go and, of course, to the end of the day who will have to pay for it. This debate, however, goes beyond the actual focus, namely the problem itself. [[Abg. Worm: That we have too many, Mrs. Colleague! We have too many!]] That is why we are discussing today the Court of Auditors' report, which I hope will help us further. First and foremost, we must and should be concerned with creating a social, fair and constitutionally sustainable solution that can help the people who need support in certain situations of life and need. So, dear members of the government – I would say that, but there is no one here – good government groups, please direct your members in the Federal Government to finally sit on the bottom of the pants and also work out appropriate regulations that help people in distress: They should be uniform and socially just throughout the country, bringing a fair solution that really benefits everyone when they need help. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] It is the wrong time to play power games here between individual national leaders and national regulations. We see that it is going in the wrong direction as far as the protection of young people is concerned – there are once again individual federal states going out. That must not be the case in the case of minimum security. This has to be a minimum limit, it has to be a lower limit, really the last network that will catch one at the end when it really doesn't go differently. In the next few weeks, it will also show how Sebastian Kurzal's role as Federal Chancellor will be as part of the preparation of this minimum guarantee: Is he this great leader of the new turquoise party, who will manage to reach a federal rule, or is he a puppet that hangs on the black ropes of the princes who are always tightened? – Well, the flight abroad may be an indication here. [[Abg. Hi, hello!]] As an aid, however, there is the current Court of Auditors report, which is available and makes appropriate recommendations. It recommends, for example, that “in the reflections on the development and reform of minimum security, it should include, in particular, aspects of administrative simplification and transparency of minimum security”. . We are talking about administrative simplification and transparency, and that is what we are all about. We will, of course, look at the proposal to see whether it is socially fair and well-designed for the people at the end of the day, but a harmonised national minimum guarantee is exactly the right direction. It cannot be that we have nine different, expensive country solutions and an administrative jungle. It must be saved here and not on the back of people! Leave Finally, I would like to add to them the way of unnecessarily jealous debates, because those who depend on the aid of the State should not be played against each other. People, that is, the social component, must be at the heart of implementation, because without social benefits, and this is perhaps a new number for many, 38 percent of all children in this country would be at risk of poverty. Without social benefits, 38 percent of all children would live at the poverty line and thus be at risk of poverty! We must not allow this to happen, and it is therefore essential that minimum security be regulated uniformly and fairly throughout the country. It's a pillar, and that's why I have the request: It just has to go a little further in this direction! 89 percent of stakeholders receive less than 1 000 euros. Nearly 90 percent of people receive less than 1 000 euros, and that only in the short term over a few months. 3 percent receive more than 1,500 euros. So what's the point of this envy debate? What's going on with this cover debate? What is the point of this upper debate? - It's not appropriate here! We need to create a social network, a minimum of security. With this envy debate, they are constantly diverting from the real problems. They point to a minority and tend to see children and single parents living at the poverty line in Austria. [[Abg. Worm: False! Wrong, Mrs. Colleague!]] You make that sustainable, you're really good at it. No one takes minimum protection from jux and tollery, but poverty should not be a place in our country. I would therefore ask you: If we take this step together, we will unite this regulation and create a socially just minimum security for people in distress in our country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19969	Mrs Mag. Smodics-Neumann will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e19991	Madam President Bures! Madam President, Mr Kraker! High house! Dear visitors to the gallery and love See you at home! I should like to take you briefly from the subject of minimum insurance to the issue of invalidity pension. The Invalidity Pension New or the Social Law Amendment Act 2012 replaced the temporary invalidity pension, with the aim of increasing the actual retirement age and sustainable financing of our pension system by raising a savings potential of almost 650 million euros. In 2015, the OECD assessed the reform by means of a study as promising, but the success depends on its implementation. What does that mean? – What’s good and what’s good As the results are so to speak, the Court of Auditors has, gratefully, evaluated the first results. Instead of saving up to the end of this year, an additional cost of approximately 100 to 200 million euros is expected. The figures of professional rehabilitation, i.e. the possibility of returning to health and occupation in the long term, or taking up another profession, were far below expectations, and the conditions and payment arrangements for those concerned were considered inappropriate and not appropriate by the Court of Auditors. In part, the Court of Auditors' recommendations have already been addressed, for example with regard to better coordination between the relevant bodies. However, a problem is still obvious, namely that there is a relatively high number of mental diseases in combination with the fact that the care of those concerned was mostly provided by general physicians and not by specialists. It is therefore in fact necessary for further revision within the meaning of the system and, above all, in the sense of: the person concerned so that more people can return to work after a disease – this is also a question of human dignity. It is very a pity that the ministry responsible at the time, under your leadership, has let up a lot of air on the way up, despite the fact that what is fulfilling.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20033	Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20057	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have now heard it exactly, the How is criticized. – If you go here and just take the Court of Auditors' report, then this statement – it is a political statement – is true, but if you talk to people and go through working life with people, this statement is not at all true. It's said you're kicking the pensioners with feet. If you abolish the disability pension and introduce a so-called rehab money, this is a real step. We too, as social democrats, say that a rehabilitation that brings you back to work is ten times more valuable than it used to be in retirement. That's where we agree. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Wherever we agree, it is to give support to those people who are ill, if they really can't work in the company, even with occupational health care. And there's nothing left of the ÖVP. I come from a giant group, and there we are taking the lead in doing this with a really great pilot project, but in no single operation of the ÖVP I find an occupational health care, precisely in these areas: rehabilitation and, above all, the right of return for those employees who have recovered after a serious illness. There's nothing to hear from the ÖVP, and then get out of here and talk about how. The next point is interesting, too, he was abolished by this government: the bonus malus system, which has very probably contributed to improving the situation. And last, but not least: the abolition of action 20,000. They really kick these persons in the back, in the truest sense of the word, without - -
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20085	Mr President, I would ask you to be moderate in your expression. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20100	I take back the expression, but you do so without remembering that this now concerns more than 100 000 people here in Austria. Dear ÖVP, where are you? – The big bells ring, but do nothing for the people; and I am disappointed by the FPÖ anyway. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For years you sit here, for years you represent the “little man” – under quotation marks – and when it comes to doing so, by the laws, you are the climber of the ÖVP. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20144	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Irmgard Griss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20170	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Well meant is often the opposite of good. One example of this is the disability pension New, and my two previous speakers have just talked about it. No one will argue that it is an absolutely welcome goal if people stay healthy longer, can work longer and only be late when they reach age to retire. Therefore, it was a good thing to create a new disability pension. This was also linked to very great expectations – my previous speaker said it –: Savings amounting to 500 to 600 million euros by 2018, i.e. four years, but cost between 100 and 200 million euros. How'd it get there? – The Court of Auditors shall list the shortcomings. It is also obvious that these savings cannot be made if the benefits now provided are higher due to the rehabilitation allowance and if pension contributions are paid during this period, which ultimately lead to a higher pension. - That's the first point. The second point: Why didn't the health rehabilitation work out the way it should have worked? – There was neither a clear target agreement nor an overall responsibility. And finally, Why did professional rehabilitation not work? – Because we have a very strict professional protection, it has not been considered, and the training period regularly takes two or at least three years and not just one year. These are obvious shortcomings that this Invalidity Act has new, and therefore it would be urgently necessary to correct these shortcomings, because the goal is still absolutely welcome. Much more sensible – and this would have to be done – is, of course, to prevent people from staying healthy longer, to take measures in the establishments, to keep people healthy, for once the child has fallen into the well – figuratively speaking – so someone can no longer work, then it is much more difficult and much more difficult to bring him back to work. It is therefore absolutely necessary to do something, and the government also has it in its government programme. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the Pilz list.]] [[18:23]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20284	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20317	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing the Court of Auditors' report on the need-oriented minimum security in Vienna. This is the second report by the Court of Auditors on the subject of minimum security, the first referring to minimum security in Vorarlberg and Tyrol, which we discussed two years ago. Already at that time it was clear that a lot of things have been going wrong with the minimum guarantee in Austria for years. We as FPÖ and I have been standing here since 2013 personally and are trying to draw the attention of our colleagues to the need for a reform in this area very urgently. If you look at the figures of the Court of Auditors' report on Vienna – Vienna is an example of how badly social policy can be pursued – you can see clearly: Apart from the fact that complete chaos exists in Vienna as regards minimum security, i.e. missing acts, no controls, the financial needs over the last five years, and the report refers to the period 2010 to 2015, almost doubled to almost 700 million euros. The Court of Auditors' forecast is already going towards 1.5 billion euros for 2020/22. We're just talking about the city of Vienna! That is what the Court of Auditors report says. Vienna is therefore an example because, considering that half of the minimum insurance providers of Austria are in Vienna, the Vienna figures are also very good at looking at the current development – and of course they came with an announcement. It has been clear for many, many years where the trip is going, and it has always been clear where our main criticism is. It is not about paying out Austrian citizens who come into an emergency situation to reduce the minimum security, or otherwise. We've always said: For Austrians, this network must be there! The figures, however, clearly show in Vienna: The minimum security has become an abuse case for the whole world. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] I would like to tell you the latest figures from Vienna: In the meantime – to my surprise – there is for the first time a recent quarterly report from Vienna, the first one. Quarter 2018. In recent years, it has hardly been possible with the Red Social Ministers to have current figures, now this is suddenly the current figures for minimum insurance in Vienna. [[the said document with the title “Mindestsicherheit in Vienna at a glance – 1. Quarterly report 2018’]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I tell you that in 2017 the number of minimum insurance providers in Vienna was 193 591 people – more than 193 000 in Vienna, this number must be imagined once! – and I say that in Vienna already in 2017, 54 percent of the minimum insurance beneficiaries were not Austrians. [[Abg. New builder: This is the entire city of Linz!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Should I tell you the current number of those entitled to asylum in Vienna who receive minimum security? Do you know how many asylum seekers in Vienna – currently in March 2018 – receive minimum security? Do you know how many? – 54 000 persons entitled to asylum are covered by minimum guarantees in Vienna, and this figure, of course, increases from month to month. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Duzdar and Mr Greiner.]] I would also like to say another thing to you: The number of Austrian minimum insurance providers even falls in Vienna. And you know why? – Because the Austrians are facing this very situation, looking for a job on the labour market and going back to work. All the others remain in the hammock, the 54 000, and we all have to get them with billions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] For this very reason, as the Federal Government, we will introduce a new system in this area of minimum security throughout Austria, and you can believe that this will be fairer for Austrians, and for everyone else it will and will have to become more stringent. - That's our position. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, another story, because it's current topic: We have problems in agriculture to get harvest helpers. Especially with me in the federal state Tirol is an up-to-date issue, the ÖVP is trying to find a regulation. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] But now I'm allowed to ask you: In Austria, we have over 100,000 asylum seekers in minimum security, and we are unable to get at least 1 000, 1 percent of them in the fields to harvest in two months!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] This is a declaration of bankruptcy that we owe to social democracy and the Greens in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20421	Mrs President-in-Office of the Council, Dr.in Margit Kraker, spoke. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20443	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The debate is about the need-oriented minimum insurance in Vienna and invalidity pension Newly published by the Court of Auditors in July 2017. As far as minimum security in Vienna is concerned, this was actually the second report on minimum security; the first concerned the countries Vorarlberg and Tirol in 2013 and the second the minimum guarantee in Vienna in 2016. We have noted that the city of Vienna's minimum security expenditure has increased considerably as a result of the developments in case numbers and expenditure figures. Expenditure rose from around 360 million euros in 2011 to around 660 million euros in 2016. Originally, the approximately 71 percent increase in the number of persons in employment aged 20 to 59, in non-Austrian minimum security professionals, in asylum and subsidiary protection beneficiaries in the case of at least 25 years of age, in those with full-year support and especially in those under 25 years of age. I note that it is very positive that the city of Vienna has responded directly to this test result. The project “MA 40 new” already existed in March 2017, and a task force was set up. There was also a novel to the Vienna Minimum Insurance Act, which entered into force in February 2018. It implemented a number of recommendations from the Court of Auditors. This covered the subject of the objectives of minimum security, the recommendations for counter-control measures in the areas of integration, education, employment incentives and the consideration of resting AMS claims as income. The issue is that minimum security is in itself a symptom, but not a fight against causes, and one has to work on it. What was abandoned were general cuts. What we criticised in the legislative review of the Vienna minimum security innovation was that a new forecast was missing, new estimates of the development of the figures, because the figures given in the Court of Auditors' report on the basis of the city of Vienna were then withdrawn by the city of Vienna, and there is no new estimate. Of course, we believe that forecasts are necessary in order to know what funding needs are and what you have to expect. The central recommendation in this Court of Auditors report is the harmonisation of the minimum guarantee by the use of the federal principle legislative competence. This is currently being discussed everywhere. Why has the Court of Auditors gone so far? – The minimum guarantee was introduced in 2010. It has been turned from social assistance to minimum security, and it has been said that, in line with this, a 15a agreement between the federal government and countries is being made in order to harmonise and cooperate with the AMS. However, this agreement was limited to the financial compensatory period ending at the end of 2016 and to a new agreement the countries have not been able to agree since then. This could or could break down minimum security into different support schemes in countries. That is why, in the event that there is no agreement, we have pointed out this power of competence for the poor in Article 12 of the Federal Constitution, where there is a federal authority, and there can be truly Austrian-wide standards. The key elements would be the definition of clear target concepts and measurable indicators for achievement. What's this about? To combat poverty or to ensure the minimum of existence? – It is about uniform claims for living, the taking over of actual proven housing costs instead of fixed amounts and sanctions and measures in refusing to work. The second report we are discussing here concerns the new disability pension. I can, of course, add to the remarks that have already been made here by the speakers. But what is important to us when something is made new when a change takes place is that there is a right and payment and fact-based data base, that the estimates are right, because the difference between the assessment and the planning was 750 million euros, and that is already blasphemous. It is therefore important – and the Court of Auditors also insists and will always be careful – that there are realistic plans and assessments, because budgetary costs cannot otherwise be calculated and because otherwise you do not have a real basis for your decisions here in the National Council when you make a law. We have not criticized the objective of the changeover to rehabilitation money. We have just said that the case studies of rehabilitation and recovery have been taken out of the air. We are now saying that it is necessary to carry out a fundamental review of this concept, with regard to some aspects which we have also shown in detail in the report, because we have carefully reviewed this: with regard to the target group for the rehabilitation money, with regard to the design of the money, with regard to the definition of the characteristics for case management – what do you understand and how is this defined? – and with regard to the introduction of a clear overall responsibility. That is what I have to say about these reports, and I thank you for taking note of that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20501	Thank you, Madam President. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote which I shall take separately on each request. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-32. Whoever speaks for the notice, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Loacker, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Implementation of the Court of Auditors’ recommendations concerning uniform nationally uniform minimum guarantees’. Who is in favour of the motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-33 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – This is unanimously accepted. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr.in Griss, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Re-implementing RH recommendations (Bund 2017/33) on ‘New invalidity pensions’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. [[18:37:55]] 8. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report Series Bunde 2016/7 (III-5/77 d.B.) 9. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on the E-finance IT programme, the “Center for Safe Information Technology – Austria” (A-SIT) and EKZ Tulln Einsetzungs GmbH – Series Bunde 2016/9 (III-6/78 d.B.) 10. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on the AirPower project – Federal Republic of Germany 2016/11 (III-7/79 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on first delivery in the Salzkammergut-Klinikum Vöcklabruck, the Wels-Grieskirchen Hospital and in the hospital of the Barmherzig sisters Ried as well as the funding of the BMG series Bunde 2016/12 (III-8/80 d.B.) 12. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the quality of the Federal Government's medium-term budget – Bund Series 2016/14 (III-9/81, D.B.) 13. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on further education and training – Series Bund 2017/2 (III-12/82 d.B.) 14. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on transparency of corporate tax advantages with a focus on group taxation; Follow-up review – Series Bund 2017/3 (III-13/83 d.b.) 15. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' Report on the management of the Federal Republic of Germany with a focus on the personnel plan – Series Bund 2017/5 (III-14/84 d.B.) 16. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on General Rehabilitation and Extension of the Museum of Contemporary Art (21er Haus); Follow-up review – Series Bunde 2017/11 (III-17/85 d.b.) 17. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on measures to promote the mobility of persons in the Federal Service; Follow-up review – Series Bunde 2017/12 (III-18/86 d.b.) 18. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors on tech2b Incubator GmbH; Follow-up Review – Series Bund 2017/13 (III-19/87 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20684	We are now going to the agenda items 8 to 18, on which the debate is being held under one. These are reports of the Committee of the Regions. With regard to the various Committee reports, I refer to the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mr Johann Singer is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20718	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, Mr Bures has already announced that there are eleven reports from the Court of Auditors under this item on the agenda. One of them deals with the review of first care in the Upper Austrian hospitals Vöcklabruck, Ried and Wels. As the Upper Austrian, I would like to take a closer look at this report. An important goal of the Health Reform 2013 was to increase the number of central reception and initial supply units or outpatient first-care units in order to avoid unnecessary stationary stays and outpatient use, which are of course much more expensive. However, in Upper Austria, the Court of Auditors criticized the lack of appropriate integrated planning for the whole of the Federal Republic of Germany as well as the statutory provisions for such institutions in the Land-Zieldverwaltungscontract. These provisions will include the country of Upper Austria, according to an opinion of the Department of Health, in the next target taxation contract. The audited hospitals in Vöcklabruck, Ried and Wels recorded a significant annual increase in patient frequency of up to 17 percent during the review period. A large part of it, criticised by the Court of Auditors, would not have necessarily been in a hospital structure. Overall, it should be noted that stationary stays during the review period were lower across Austria, in total by minus 2.5 percent. Interestingly, this also concerns those hospitals that did not have initial care facilities, such as the State Hospital of Steyr, there was even a minus of 6.5 percent. The Court also criticised the fact that the audited first recording units differed, in particular in terms of spatial design, human resources and qualifications, as well as in the structure and process organisation. Also, according to the Court of Auditors, the requirements of the Austrian Health Structure Plan had not been partially complied with. Hiezu must be said, based on experience from practice, that general regulations, for example as regards the size of premises, are of course very difficult to define because of the different conditions in the hospitals – for example, whether they are an old building or a new building or what the location of the organizational units is. As a whole, the Court of Auditors found that there were no important requirements for first-time reception units, such as the qualifications of the care staff. In conclusion, there are, in principle, different building blocks for reducing the use of the stationary area: In addition to the structural changes referred to by the Court of Auditors, these are mainly health promotion, the effective primary care, patient control and prevention of inadvertent stationary use, or also outpatient and multi-professional forms of care. Ladies and gentlemen, reducing the use of the stationary area is a major challenge, especially due to demographic developments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20773	Next speaker: Mr Erwin Preiner. - I'll set you up for 4 minutes. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20797	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In my statement, I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on the preparation of the Green Report for the period 2010 to 2014. I would like to thank all the farmers who have made their accounting documents available to the officials of the Ministry and, above all, to the officials of the Court of Auditors for the thorough report. Unfortunately, much more positive is not to be said. The Court of Auditors has made 21 recommendations to the Ministry – I think that no one of them has yet been implemented. I would now like to refer to some of the main areas of the Court of Auditors' report: The Green Report cost around 12.5 million euros for the 2010 to 2014 reporting period. Dec Furthermore, since 2010, only a limited range of farms has been used for the preparation of the Green Report, i.e. farms with a turnover of 8,000 to 350 000 euros, i.e. about 60 percent of farms. At the same time, this means that we do not have a 100% overview of the development, including the incomes of agriculture in Austria. This is not because the methodology and data collection by the Ministry and by the LBG are not the same as the methodology and data collection of the other EU countries. That is to say, the figures, data and facts are not one over one with the corresponding statistics of the other EU countries. Too many responsibilities have also led to a strong increase in the cost of drawing up the Green Report. However, the Court of Auditors has also clearly criticized the award and tender practice of the Ministry of Agriculture. Although there was an EU-wide call for tender, there was no competition. This is also due to the fact that the ministry was too late and therefore no competitors participated in the tender. I allow myself to repeat part of the RH report here: Despite the EU-wide award of the bookkeeping work, the Ministry did not compete, since always only one and the same business trustee company, namely the LBG, was the only authorised bidder in the procurement procedures and has received this or a similar contract for more than – this is not Freud’s promise – 55 years. Of course, the question arises whether this award practice is still in conformity with the law at all. – I don’t think; this award practice is basically like a state in the state. The Court of Auditors has also found that there are no protocols of opening of tenders and examining the offer, simply not available. Furthermore, the Court strongly criticises that the Ministry has granted additional benefits to LBG, which do not have a legal basis, or has even paid premiums to businesses, for which there is no legal basis. One last thing to conclude: The report for a holding costs about EUR 1 300 per year in Austria. Two comparable figures: In Sweden, this costs between 200 and 300 euros, in Germany 326 euros. So there is also a very blatant difference in costs in international comparison. We know who bears the political responsibility: For over three decades, ÖVP has occupied the Ministry of Agriculture. I think there is a waste of tax money and it is high time these acid swamps and meadows were dried. I therefore call for greater transparency in the future and for the ministries to comply with existing laws and regulations. Finally, I would like to ask you, Madam President of the Court of Auditors, to carry out a follow-up review on the report submitted. I hope that at one of the next meetings we will be able to discuss it as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20836	Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20860	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Coming from the Murtal district in the beautiful Styria, of course, I have to deal with the report, which refers to the region there, which is the AirPower 2013 report. This has, charmingly said, been very critical in some areas. Maybe before. What's the AirPower? – This is essentially a flight show that is performed, held and organized by the Austrian air forces stationed at the Fliegerhorst Hinterstoisser and which, I must say, is absolutely impressive. It is a two-day event that attracts up to 300,000 people to this region, where everything the pilot heart desires is offered, from parasols to the fastest jets. The international seasons, which are being loaded, really enchant magnificent works of art in the sky. Thanks to the landscaped conditions there, a particularly stunning panorama is offered. It is really a very great event, which is organized and carried out in an excellent way by our forces. There are also, of course, consequences: I have already said that 300 000 guests in two days mean for the crisis-stricken or, let us say, not so well-standing rural region Aichfeld-Murboden is an important tourist factor. AirPower 2016 has brought an increase of 37 percent of nights and 11.5 million euros of value added in the region. Economic researchers have found that demand for services and goods amounted to around 13 million euros. This also results in about 130 jobs for a year. This benefits the region, and it must be seen if there is already a critical Court of Auditors report. I must say that this criticism is partly secure, but not all technical recommendations are an advantage to added value in this form for the region. In this respect, you need to differentiate a little. Federal Minister Mario Kunasekhat Thank God already announced that in 2019 another such great flight show will take place in our tent road, and I can also tell you, Madam President, that in talking to him, it has been crystallized that these recommendations you have given will certainly be partially implemented. It is very likely that this report will evaluate how the event is going to take place, especially with regard to the planning and organisational shortcomings you have identified. A somewhat outstanding criticism relates to the question of whether this sponsoring agreement, which was concluded there, should not have been exonerated, as consideration may have been given. This will be carefully examined, and these recommendations will be implemented accordingly if it turns out to be so. Finally, I can only give an invitation to everyone – the event is expected to take place next June –: Come to this beautiful region, admire You will find this fantastic event, which is not only exciting and casual, but also highly informative, as there are also great exhibition possibilities and information! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20909	Next speaker: Mr Dr Wolfgang Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20930	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! The Court of Auditors shall, inter alia, have the task of showing maladministration in the administration. We know that this has been successful from time to time and that something is changing for the better. But sometimes it is also the case that in the public there is hardly any mention of it and everything remains without consequences, as it was. The dogs call, the caravan moves on. I bring you one of many examples: Ten years ago, the 20th house was rebuilt in the Schweizer Garten in Vienna. This 20s house is an exhibition space for contemporary art and has been converted into a more up-to-date 21s house – now called it. The project was originally planned for 18 million euros. The Republic should have taken over 8 million euros, and the rest wanted to pay sponsors to the director – the 20th house is part of the Belvedere – Agnes Husslein. Although no financing plan and no cover are available – sponsors have never appeared at all – the reconstruction has begun. The conversion cost 30 million euros, and paid for this to complete the Republic of Austria, because the sponsors have failed. The costs have been enormously exploded, and the Court of Auditors noted that none of the 72 detailed contracts had been carried out in accordance with the statutory procurement rules. One can now say: a bad person who thinks evil when there is no financing plan if the costs explode when there is no control and when the Republic pays everything at the end. To this end, we need to know that at the same time at Wörthersee, the house of director Agnes Husslein was rebuilt by the same companies. – pure chance, of course, but this is really incredible in that something like this can happen at all: that the ministries are watching that the ministers and ministers in question confirm all of this and that, at least in the Court of Auditors’ report on the follow-up review, it has not been confirmed to this day. That means that this building should not have been put into operation at all. What remains is just the Court of Auditors' recommendations that such a thing should not happen again. This cannot be the case either, since the management of the Belvedere has been replaced. The Supervisory Board is also a completely different one and the ministers are also others. So everything in Butter could be said. There's only this little thing that Agnes Husslein is now in the Supervisory Board of the Leopold Museum – but it doesn't matter anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e20975	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21000	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am allowed to repeat briefly on three Court of Auditors reports, because today we have a whole bunch of reports: Colleague Zanger has already reported on the AirPower project, about the general renovation and expansion of the Museum of Contemporary Art, and also about the further education of teachers has already been reported. On the AirPower project, Mr. Zanger said that it had an economic significance, but I think the Court of Auditors is right if he recommends that in the future, especially in such projects, the approvals under the Event Act be collected so that the costs remain in the lot – they were exceeded by 11 percent. The Court of Auditors also stated that realistic assumptions regarding expenditure and revenue should be made in the future. The Court of Auditors found a total of many errors, including the award of grants. I believe that we should, above all, make a clear assessment of the economic success and the effort to promote it. The Court of Auditors has examined the training system and has examined the content and quality of the courses, the organisation and the costs of continuing and continuing training. The number of training courses held in 2014/2015 fell by 9 percent to 13 260 in Austria. The reasons for this were the change to the new law of service for the teaching staff of the educational universities and thus the changed use of staff. This has also led to budgetary cuts. A total of 46 recommendations were made by the Court of Auditors. It would be the wish and mandate of the Court of Auditors that there should be a better organisation and harmonisation in training in the future, including with regard to the cost and performance accounting. Further training should take place in the school buildings and not in external facilities, mainly in the fields of hall rents. The Court of Auditors also called for the educational colleges of Lower Austria and Styria to develop further training and further training in e-learning and to be offered more and more in summer holidays. Col. Zinggl has spoken to the Museum of Contemporary Art. Yes, I think a lot of things have gone wrong if one finds a building cost exceeding EUR 18.1 million to EUR 29.94 million. I believe that we really have to say that we need to work properly and cleanly and, of course, transparently in the future and that the rules of the game must be complied with. The essential thing was said by Mr Zinggl. I think it should be absolutely transparent in such public projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21046	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerald Hauser.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21075	Madam President. Estimated President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Like my previous speaker, Hermann Gahrmit, I would like to deal with teacher training and further education, but with a special area, namely top school students. You know, school is incredibly important, and we now have the problem that, unfortunately, the number of risk students of God is constantly increasing, namely the number of students who can neither read nor write nor count; this is really alarming. That's the one side I don't go into in detail today. The other side is equally alarming, namely that the number of top students is permanently decreasing. Within the last ten years, the share of top school students in Austria has fallen from 20 to 15 percent. The OECD section is 16 percent. Even here we do not even reach the OECD section, and this of course has its reasons. It is alarming, from my point of view, that, for example, in 2006, we still had some 18 000 top students aged 15-16 years, ten years later this number dropped to 12 500 students in an alarming order. So there are thousands of students who simply do not have the opportunity to exploit their potential. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] I see the reason for this also in the education and training of teachers. Among other things, the Court of Auditors' report states that the Ministry has introduced various key projects and centre of interest in the period 2014 to 2018, but that the promotion of talent was not a priority. That is, from the Ministry's point of view, that was not so important. We'll see the result. In addition, the Court of Auditors has noted that talent promotion has not played a role in the national courses. You have to imagine that this is de facto with no focus! This is tough because, of course, especially teachers have to be confronted with this issue and the importance of gift promotion must also be recognized. That didn't happen. Furthermore, in 2017, a study by Mrs. Martina Müller showed that teachers at the higher education institutions did not have a particularly good knowledge of the promotion of talent and did not deal with it. This is a giant manko because it is precisely the teachers who need to pass on their knowledge and the facts in the field of gift promotion and especially because they need to raise awareness of the trainees in the field of gift promotion. It's all understated. Under the rule, this government has taken action to reduce, on the one hand, the number of risk students who do not write, read, count, and, on the other hand, naturally promote the top students, so that at least we reach the OECD cut. What did the government hold in the government programme for this purpose? – The term ‘target definition’ states that the proven differentiated school system is preserved and expanded. In concrete terms, this means that future talents will also be better promoted and accompanied. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] These are the following points: A gift promotion strategy should be developed, including a further development of existing curriculum models for highly talented students. We want to make greater use of the know-how of the Austrian Centre for Gift Funding and Gift Research. It is intended to build schools for particularly talented students in all the federal states and the use and expansion of existing schools and programmes for the promotion of talent. That is to say, this government has recognized that students represent our potential and that at both ends, namely at risk students on the one hand and at top school on the other side, we need to do so in order to achieve at least the OECD cut in all areas in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21149	Mrs Povysil is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21170	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the plenary, on the gallery, via the media and the Internet! The Court of Auditors has examined first supply units in the hospitals, in the Salzkammergut Clinic and in the Wels-Grieskirchen Hospital. Initial care facilities are facilities where, as the name says, patients come first and where they are decided: Are they admitted to hospital or are they sent to another possible supply situation, such as the established doctor? For years there has been the same mantra: As many outpatient as possible and only the stationary, which is necessary. – Yes, that is true in principle, but that is not feasible if one does not change the financing and organisation in the health system. However, this has not been thought of in the last federal health reform, which is why this measure has not taken effect, and there has been a 17 percent increase in the frequencies of these first care facilities, and not what one wanted, namely, to improve the supply of patients in the settled area. This will never happen as long as the funding is as it is now, namely: The social security funds pay in the hospital system and in the entire area. That means their interest is this: Of course, they want to have patients in the hospital – contrary to the constant mantra – and not to provide in the settled area. As long as we do not make clear reforms, this will not change. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition, of course, these first supply facilities also have the typical Wirrwarr for our health system in Austria: There is a catalogue of outpatient services. There is, I tell you, even for 20 years now, but he still does not provide comparable data. Now we are constantly hearing, in connection with the Data Protection Act and with all that we can do with data and with artificial intelligence in medicine, of incredible possibilities – but we have not managed in Austria to acquire at least comparable data in the outpatient field, so that we then also change the health system based on these data. This has been recognised by the Court of Auditors and rightly criticized again. Ladies and gentlemen! Correct control is also proper financing. If we do not really implement this once we continue to close our eyes if we do not work together on it, then nothing will change in our health system and we will finally be standing here again, again being criticized by the Court of Auditors, and nothing will happen. I'm appealing to you: Please open your eyes, your hearts and let us make our health system future fit!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21224	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-5 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who take note of this to give a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. That's why it's accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-6 of the supplements. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who take note of this report to give a sign of approval. – This too is assumed. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-7 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to be a sign of approval. – That too is unanimous. Accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-8 of the supplements. If you agree with this, I ask for a sign of approval. – That too is unanimous. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-9 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – That too is unanimous. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-12 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-13 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-14 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-17 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-18 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 18: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-19 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – That too is unanimous. Accepted. [[19:12:26]] 19. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors Report on Pension Adjustment of National Officials – BUND 2017/64 series (III-69/122 D.B.) 20. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the retirement status and expenditure of national officials – BUND 2017/65 series (III-70/123 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21412	We now come, ladies and gentlemen, to the points 19 and 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Singer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21439	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on the adjustment of the pensions of national officials. In principle, each pension reform refers in summary to the calculation of pensions, to the amount of pension. This means that all the reforms that the Federal Government and the countries have so far made in the pension system concern the boys, the people who will be retired in the future. In contrast, this report concerns state officials who are now on retirement. Among them are also many who have retired from relatively favourable conditions from today's pension. I remember that they already reached the 60. I also think that the pension in its amount refers to 80 per cent of the final pension. Among other things, for reasons of overall finance and In the last few years, the Federal Government and the Länder have repeatedly taken savings measures in the principle of annual pension adjustments. The basis for the pension adjustments at the federal level was the ASVG and the Federal Civil Service Pension Law, and at country level the annual adjustments were constantly regulated by national law. Some countries took over the arrangements of the ASVG, part of the countries with lower adjustments, part of the countries made higher adjustments – and these differences criticised the Court of Auditors. According to the Court of Auditors' report, an additional effort was incurred in the years 2006 to 2016 in Upper Austria, Tyrol, Vorarlberg and Vienna in relation to the pension adjustments in accordance with the ASVG amounting to a total of EUR 141.6 million. How did this additional effort come about? – The first point mentioned is the different waiting periods. In concrete terms, the Court of Auditors recommended that the countries of Carinthia, Salzburg, Tirol and Vorarlberg introduce the same waiting periods as provided for in the ASVG, i.e. that the pension be increased for the first time in the second year after retirement. The additional effort was also incurred by any country-specific one-off payments or even by partially higher adjustment percentages. The linear adjustment percentages without cover are often also criticized in the case of high starting pensions. The Court of Auditors recommends countries to limit country-specific percentages for any increase in pension adjustments to the ASVG. In addition, the Court of Auditors recommends that an adjustment be made from a pension which corresponds to the ASVG maximum basis – which is currently around EUR 5 130 – with a fixed amount. Another criticism of the Court of Auditors was that no pension contributions were introduced in Vienna. As part of the Special Pension Restriction Act, all countries except Vienna introduced pension contributions for pensioners of supplementary pension benefits. The Court of Auditors, as has been said, also recommends Vienna to introduce these. In summary, the Court of Auditors, as in many other reports, criticized the different practices of the countries and recommended a uniform procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21487	Mrs Greiner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21509	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! There are 16 recommendations concerning pension adjustments, seven of which are addressed to the BKA. We had visited the Committee on Mr Vice-Kanzler Strache, who is now responsible for this, and he has asked for these recommendations, and he really feels responsible for two recommendations, and the other five he has delegated to Mr Moser's Minister for Reform. We have just heard that the pension adjustments are very different in the countries. From this point of view, therefore, my appeal to both gentlemen, to Mr Vice-Chancellor and to Mr Moser, Minister for Reform: Please enter I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will, if you will. Terminize these conversations and please present us with timely results! I would like to add one point: I also asked Mr Vice-Chancellor about the pension scheme. Now I am not so much concerned with the content, but in this context there is also a question from my colleague to Mr Vice-Kanzler, and, as has already been mentioned a few times today, the quality of the answer to the question really leaves very, very much to be desired. I'd like you to take this more seriously. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Cox.]] The quality is obviously not so great that even the President of the National Council called on the Chancellor directly to ensure that the members of the government are more committed and more quality in the response to the question. We also discussed a media report in which Mr Vice-Chancellor was confirmed that he wanted to install additional privileges for judges, which the Ministry of Finance strongly criticised. And I must say that Mr Vice-Chancellor has found very, very sharp words in the Committee regarding the Ministry of Finance, and on the day following this committee debate there was also an official apologies on the part of the Ministry of Finance. Why am I telling you that? – Ladies and gentlemen, voting between government parties really looks different, and this story, as it has done, is diametrical to the media. One last point, just briefly: The European Court of Auditors was also a guest, and there was a debate and a facet in it, which is particularly interesting for listeners. The European Court of Auditors will focus more on performance aspects in its reviews. This is important in so far as it is They all have the right to know how EU funding funds are used, whether they are used in accordance with the performance aspects. This is particularly of interest in the agricultural sector: Are agricultural support really used as they are intended? And above all: Are there also overarching issues, such as climate protection, which is not too much to see in the government programme? . As far as this short impression from the debate with the European Court of Auditors is concerned, because of course you all need to know how funding funds are used. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21566	The next item is the speech by Mr Lausch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21587	Estimated Presidents! High house! The Court of Auditors: First of all, thank you to the President or to her staff for the excellent reports. This shows how valuable the Court of Auditors is for us in Parliament and what it shows: where there are injustices, but also where you can save tax money. Thank you very much for that. The countries – which was a great criticism, which is absolutely right – regulate the pensions of their officials by national law. Dear colleague Karin Greiner, I can give you the appeal: Talk to your red comrades in Vienna and find out why you are on average in Vienna as a state official at 57,6 years and retired with 60,7 throughout the country! That's three and a half years earlier. I believe the city of Vienna costs a lot, a lot of money for three and a half years. There, of course, one could also save – this appeal I address immediately to the Social Democracy – and would not have to throw tax and fees money with both hands out to the window. I'll give it back. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] There is also a lot of gratifying things in general. It should not be forgotten that most of the criticisms of the Court of Auditors' report – which the Vice-Cancellor in the Committee has clearly made clear – fall within the competence of the countries. I already have to hold on to the federal officials: In Austria, judges and prosecutors go on average at 62.9 years of age, teachers with 62.7 years of age in retirement, in the military, the average age of retirement is 61.8 years and so on. This results in an average of 60.7 years. At the executive, police and judicial guard, you retire in Austria at 59.3 years. I believe that Austria must not hide and generate itself in a European comparison, which one likes to draw, but also in a worldwide comparison, when one sees, as in other countries, that the executive service, police and judicial service is a heavy service – which is truly so! – and one goes into retirement on the basis of his earlier retirement. This is what many countries in Europe see, but also worldwide. I think that's right, too, and there's no need to hide at all in Austria with an average of 59.3 years. Again: Good work of the Court of Auditors! It's a good report, you've seen exactly what it's all about. If one wants less criticism from the Court of Auditors and more justice, of course, it would be a matter of course for itself to introduce national pension schemes for officials and not allow them to move around. I have already pointed out that there are injustices in the system, but also in the budget. It is already to be said that countries should also respect recommendations for their national officials in terms of salary increases, but that does not have to do necessarily, and of course there will be a lot of money. There could be, in the future, very, very much done, but the countries are autonomous with regard to their officials. This was the Court's biggest criticism. Let us be glad that this will be shown, because perhaps this will stimulate one country or another, which is no longer so good in budget terms, to reflect on whether one should not follow the federal recommendations and perhaps not make much of it as free-minded as it should be. I believe that countries too can learn a lot from the Court of Auditors' reports and, in future, do a lot. – In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21655	The next item is the speech by Mr Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21676	Madam President. Estimated President of the Court of Auditors! The report on the pensions of national officials is at all a special piece. The Vorarlbergers are visible there. If someone retired in 2006 with a pension of 3 500 euros and you look at it ten years later, the Vorarlberg state officials got the most out of it at the end of this ten-year period, namely, 363 euros more than one federal official. The state government of Vorarlberg was so The fact that no one has spoken out by the politicians, but has been sent to the staff director in the office of the state government to provide information to the media. The Court of Auditors has, of course, deprived itself of its power, for: When was this report presented? – On Friday before Christmas, of course, you can make sure that this doesn’t happen at all, goes down on the holidays and then nobody talks about it. It is also up to the Court of Auditors to give the necessary weight to their own reports. All in all, this will result in additional costs in the area of national officials of 142 million euros. We do not even have to say that a large part of it goes to the country of Vienna. How does that come about? – Essentially by two factors: One is that the federal states make the first pension increase already in the first year, whereas an ASVG insurer or a federal servant must wait for the second pension year. This advantage of the first increase then takes a whole pensioner's life. Furthermore, it also occurs that more is increased than in the ASVG area. For example, the federal officials in many federal states depend on the pension relationship, in Vorarlberg, as mentioned, after ten years with 363 euros per month more, 14 times per year, in Vienna with 230 euros, in Upper Austria with 201 euros and in Tyrol with still 117 euros. The fact that almost 50 percent of officials retire in Vienna due to incapacity for service must be due to the fact that the hacks in Vienna are just much more angry than in all other federal states. This can be understood. Special pensions are similar to those in the Federal Republic of Germany. For example, there are federal states that have simply introduced special pension restrictions for some areas, for example for national officials, but not for their own societies. You would then always meet partygoers, and you don't like it that much. In my home country, our countryman was informed that the country was not legally competent to intervene there. A specific provision has been made in the Special Pension Restriction Act that countries can do this! So the voters, the journalist and the opposition are held at the shame. Madam President-in-Office of the Council, the countries are taking care of their reports. That's unfortunate. In this case, don't make it worse by publishing such really serious reports that show serious financial consequences on Friday before Christmas! If you're looking for a nice appointment, then you'll be able to pick up a little bit more firmly, and then no politician can get away from the answer by being unfortunately on Christmas vacation and sending an official forward. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I have another motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[19:30]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21810	The application which has just been submitted has been properly submitted, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21835	First of all, two figures from Statistics Austria: First: The average salary in Austria is 1,900 euros gross per month. Secondly, The average pension in Austria is 1,500 euros gross per month. This means that half of the pensioners receive less than 1,500 euros gross, and that also means that there are, of course, pensions far beyond. There are pensions even above the maximum amount of EUR 5 130 gross per month, and 40 percent of retired officials and officials have pensions above this amount. That would be granted to them, so they can make a good retirement. In my opinion, however, it would also be a act of solidarity if you were to refrain from 10 per cent of what is above this amount. It would also be a contribution to safeguarding all other pensions. If I say about this amount, I mean the difference, so not 10 percent of 5 130 euros, but: If someone has a pension of 6 000 euros, then you have to deduct 5 130 euros, there are 870 euros left, of which 10 percent would have to be given, that is 87 euros. So if someone has a pension of 6 000 euros, he or she would have to give up 87 euros, it still remained 5 913 euros, which is not little. We here in Parliament decided in 2014 that such a 10-percent rule could be set up in the countries and, of course, in the federal states. The Court of Auditors has now found that this is not the case. So since 2014, the countries have not done so. Vienna has made it in a weakened form, but all the other countries and the Federation have not done so. I think it will be time for the government to move forward with an example, and that is why I make a request concerning the federal officials: [[Quoted print version removed]] Now let us see to what extent the government is serious about reducing privileges. Mr Lausch has said that the countries should stick to it once. The countries, in turn, say that they are orienting themselves to the Federation, that the Federation should go ahead. I think the countries are right in this regard. In any case, we can only set up something here for the Federation. Let us take a look at what is now happening to this proposal. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[19:34]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21960	The application has been properly filed and is under negotiation. The next item is Mrs Smodics-Neumann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e21984	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and dear spectators, wherever you follow us! Unfortunately, the Court of Auditors does not give a good witness to the Federal States of Carinthia and Vienna in its report. Especially as a Vienna woman, I have to worry about our country officials seriously now, because, according to Mercer-Study, Vienna is the most vital city, it would obviously not look like this in the working environment of the Vienna state officials. Until the 2015 control period, a 50 percent chance to reach the age of 65 years was given as a Vienna State official or a state official. More than half of all early retirements were given for reasons of incapacity for service. That's where I have to ask myself: In what health - resistant environment did these people have to work? On demand for more up-to-date data, which is unfortunately only available from 2016 – the figures from 2017 have not yet been made available – the following have been found: 97 percent went to early retirement, three out of a hundred went to retirement regularly at 65 years, and 33 percent of the early pensioners went because of incapacity for service. In order to premise an argument right now: We do not talk here or we are not exclusively talking about those national officials who work in a particularly difficult environment, such as in the care, where you can understand it. Interestingly, the numbers do not vary very much, no matter what area you look at. It makes almost no difference whether it concerns the magistrate in a narrow sense or, for example, the hospital association. At this rate, as an entrepreneur, I would always have to visit occupational doctors, labour inspectorates or other checkpoints to justify these figures. But that will not be necessary. In the private sector, the early retirement rate is 20 percent, because we entrepreneurs are looking at our employees. In order to illustrate this a little bit, I may abduct you briefly: Imagine, all of us are state officials and national officials! That means – and I can now start with me –: State official Smodics-Neumann: Early retirement; National official core in absence: Early retirement, notification is given; National arbitrator: declared unfit for service on behalf of the Office; State official Kuntzl: Early retirement; State official Heinisch-Hosek: Early retirement; State official Wittmann: declared invalid on his behalf; and my congratulation to national officials Jarolim: You can work well up to 65. There's a light view, though. In the autumn of last year, there were several newspaper reports on this subject, including a magistrate official, who – I may quote here – was “too sick for Magistrate”, but now is head of a company that co-categorises at the Nord Hospital. An official, retired at 54 years of age due to permanent incapacity to serve, founded a company and is now in business in seven projects with the city of Vienna. It is seen that entrepreneurs are not only working longer and healthier statistically, but that they can even become healthy through entrepreneurship. If this is not an argument for independence!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22027	The next item is the report by Mr Plessl. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22048	Estimated Presidents! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are allowed to discuss two reports from the Court of Auditors on audits carried out between March and August 2016. One report relates to the conduct of the countries with regard to pension adjustment and the adoption of the Special Pension Restriction Act. For this purpose, the examination period 2010 to 2016 was extended even from 2006 to 2016, as was the case with the Special Pension Restriction Act in the countries. We have clearly been aware by the Court of Auditors that the nine federal states have managed or implemented this differently. Our question to the vice chancellor in the committee was who is now conducting the talks with the countries. He is also responsible for the public service. The message that Reform Minister Josef Moser will hold the talks was already surprising for us, because the Vice President is also responsible for the public service. The second area to which the Court of Auditors refers and which I will then discuss with you concerns the retirement status of national officials and the pension expenditure incurred for them. Here we also see the different types of pension, the actual retirement age, the retirement status and pension expenditure, and so on in the period from 2010 to 2015. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the interesting thing about the whole discussion – and I have also asked the Vice-Chancellor – is that the Government Declaration has stated that only every third point of the plan should be re-occupied. If you look at the pension figures for the future by 2030 and the union tells us that up to 50 percent of the staff will retire, then we have a big problem here. I have also asked the Vice-President how he sees what action he is taking in this regard and how he can ensure that the information currently available can also be transmitted to future officials or to those who are going to work in the public service. I say: The answer was very poor until not available at all. That is why it is so important to create incentives, ladies and gentlemen, too. If you are going to see 50 percent of the staff in retirement by 2030, then you already have to take action. On the question of whether the number of a third is respected or not, he replied: We will have to judge this on time. So the Federal Government's agreements look like. They are not respected because they are not at all respected, for otherwise the public service cannot fulfil the tasks for which it is intended. However, I would also like to explain here on the basis of examples why we absolutely need officials, officials and staff. In the federal states, for example, Madam President of the Court of Auditors, we have a delay in a commercial procedure because the countries provide too few experts. There is a delay which would not be necessary if there were sufficient experts. The second example comes from the financial sector, the Ministry of Finance: We'll see that we need more people at the operational auditors. Each operator brings the many times of what it actually costs. Considering that an auditor brings ten to 15 times more than he costs, it would make sense to invest there. We also know that about five years are necessary to enable an auditor to leave independently. Finally, to an area that is very close to my heart: There is also a Court of Auditors report, in which you maintain that there are too few staff in the Federal Criminal Office. This is precisely what we need to do with the Ministry of Justice, for example in the case of fraud offences or drug offences. Until then, we have not managed to have sufficient personnel available to these two ministries so that they can also take away money from these criminals. Punishment by means of money, by way of levying, would be a useful goal for the implementation of unlawful enrichment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22103	Mr Kucher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22125	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! We have already discussed a lot about these reports on pensions today. I believe that, in principle, we can say – and we have discussed this for a long time in the Committee – that we have a very clear right to fair and, above all, safe pensions on the part of social democracy and that the people who have built our country who have worked hard for our country for many years also have the right to live by their pension. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, there has been a number of developments in the past, to which we all say that they are not compatible with fairness. In front of the back There has been a number of repair measures due to the protection of trust – the Special Pension Restriction Act, pension insurance contributions, which are also paid in addition. There's a lot already happened. It is also apparent in the debates that it will take a while for harmonisation to take place in all areas. This also shows how unclear the area has become and that it is quite complex. The best example of this was Vice-Chancellor Strache; I do not know who was in the Court of Auditors: That was one of the most exciting appearances of a member of the government that I have ever experienced, i.e. such a mixture of unambitated access and ignorance; that was really quite, very exciting how he acted. Mrs. Dr. Griss and Mrs. President of the Court of Auditors, I really must congratulate you both: You really have talent, you are excellent teachers, because you were able to explain to Mr. Strache what he is responsible for. You've really noticed how it's slowly rattering. - Unbelievable! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] He then came up with what he was responsible for, and, over time, he also noticed that what he had always slandered about had been partially repaired for a long time. He then could not give any examples, but still blamed on them. It was incredible. Finally, he has reduced his role, to say, Minister of Reform Moser has to focus on the whole, he doesn't really want to interfere. So that was an exciting, remarkable appearance. I hope he's better off in the sports area. The presence of the Court of Auditors was quite exciting. But I am convinced – and that is why I thank both of you – that Mr Strache has learned a lot about it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, because Mrs. Smodics-Neumann also addressed Carinthia: This is a model example of what happens if one does not necessarily make smart pension reforms. With validity in 2011, ÖVP and FPÖ in Carinthia have decided a pension reform, and it is surprising that in 2010 the number of retirement pensions suddenly increases dramatically. This is easy to explain: If you are acting as smartly as you are in Carinthia, there is a pension reform that is simply much more expensive, and you can see that these reforms are much more complex and these simple statements are not always true.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22188	The President of the Court of Auditors has spoken. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22209	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is right, we have published the two reports at the end of the year. They concern pension adjustments and retirement status, as well as pension expenditure for national officials in all countries, and they also include recommendations to the Federal Government. I must say that when reports come to nine countries, they will be discussed in nine days. In Vorarlberg, this was held in the Committee on 21 January. February, not before Christmas, discussed and then treated in March in the country day. There are plenty of opportunities to discuss Court of Auditors reports for months to come, and I hope that the conclusions will not only be reached on the day of its publication. I would like to say that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the free movement of goods and services has not yet been adopted by the Council. That's very important to me. Of course, we are always happy when we report on published reports in detail. What was the aim of this test? – The aim of this test: It was about officials who are already in retirement, who are partially favored, and there are several levers and screws on which one can turn so that the costs do not grow. What are these possibilities? – This is about the annual pension adjustment, it concerns the collection of pension contributions and also increased pension contributions under the Special Pension Restriction Act, and it is about all the measures to be taken in order to achieve the statutory retirement pension of 65 years. We have, of course, identified shortcomings. We took the federal government and the ASVG-pensions to the measurement bar, compared them and made the comparison with regard to the pension adjustment. It is true that in the countries of Upper Austria, Tyrol, Vorarlberg and Vienna, an additional effort has been incurred in relation to this pension adjustment after the Federal official's pension of 142 million euros accumulated in the years 2006 to 2016. Further additional costs were incurred due to a lack of waiting period. It is also necessary to implement the waiting periods accordingly, as included in the ASVG. There were additional costs of 35 million euros that were incurred. But I also have to say that in two years it is also exposed to the federal officials. This also makes a group of pensioners better than others. With regard to higher pensions, a recommendation is addressed to the countries, but also to the federal government, to provide for a cover-up of the adjustment from a pension level to the maximum contribution basis. Here we mean that a cover by fixed amounts is necessary so that there is a fair comparison. Secondly, we have also compared, and once again, what the hackler regulation has meant to be old. At the federal level, there were retirement pensions of around 50.3 percent of retirement pensions. This, of course, led to a loss of revenue and a significant increase in the amount of EUR 1.95 billion if the federal government and the countries were to be charged. However, this loss of the preferred hackler scheme Alt resulted in an increase in the average retirement age in the federal government to 61.2 years in 2015, with the country average being 58.8 years. The two states of Vienna and Carinthia have been particularly affected by the high proportion of sickness-related retirement schemes. Here we have recommended a disease monitoring and diagnostic monitoring and measures to maintain health and performance. But this also applies to the Federation, which applies to all areas of the public hand, because that is important. The most important thing is that we reach the statutory retirement pension, 65 years, and that we do everything and also review all the service measures that lead to a longer stay in the service. As regards the implementation of the Special Pension Restriction Act, the Constitutional Legislator has standardised a framework and it is important to use this framework. There is the possibility of exploiting this framework. At the federal level too, the framework between 100 and 150 percent of the maximum contribution base has not been used, and in two countries, and in particular in the city of Vienna, more than 200 and 300 percent of the maximum contribution base. did not implement this framework at all, even for regulations on companies in the city of Vienna. These increased pension contributions for federal officials from the birth of 1959 are entirely absent. We are also of the opinion that this should be maintained, and there is a recommendation in the Court's report to provide for a 5-percent pension contribution for these groups for the shares exceeding 100 percent of the maximum contribution base. I would like to thank you for the intense discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22283	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-69 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Loacker, colleagues and colleagues on ‘implement RH recommendations (Bund 2017/64 and 2017/65) to civil servants’ pensions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zinggl, colleagues, on ‘an increased pension contribution for federal pensions’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-70 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[19:53:54]] 21. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on Austrian Banking Supervisory Architecture – BUND 2017/20 series (III-23/124 d.B.) 22. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on Federal Monumental Office – BUND 2017/23 (III-25/125 D.B.) 23. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on family jurisdiction – BUND 2017/24 series (III-26/126 d.b.) 24. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on risk management in financial management; Follow-up review – BUND 2017/27 series (III-27/127 d.b.) 25. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on structural reform of the district courts; Follow-up review – BUND 2017/28 series (III-28/128 d.b.) 26. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors on the ETUC-Immobilie Gauermanngasse 2-4 – BUND 2017/31 (III-31/129 D.B.) 27. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on Hallstatt Wasserkraft GmbH – Series Bund 2017/34 (III-34/130 D.B.) 28. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the safeguarding of commodity deposits in the countries of Lower Austria, Upper Austria and Tyrol – Federal Republic of Germany 2017/35 (III-35/131 d.b.) 29. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on the Executive Clothing Fund – Series Bund 2017/36 (III-36/132 D.B.) 30. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on BMLVS’s housing – Series Bund 2017/37 (III-37/133 D.B.) 31. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the Federal Institute for Education Research, Innovation and Development of Austrian Schools (BIFIE); Follow-up review – BUND 2017/40 series (III-40/134 d.b.) 32. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on the Federal Office for Credentials – Series Bund 2017/47 (III-47/135 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22482	We now come to points 21 to 32 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Fichtinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22509	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The following items deal with a large number of reports from the Court of Auditors and thus a large number of different issues. I would like to take a closer look at the report with the code 2017/40. This is a follow-up review by the Federal Institute for Education Research, Innovation and Development of the Austrian Schools, called a short bio. The purpose of this review was to assess the implementation of recommendations given by the Court of Auditors during the previous conduct review in 2012. In 2013, the Court of Auditors asked the audited bodies and reviewed the implementation status of the recommendations. The outcome of this demand procedure was published in the 2013/13 report. But now to this report: It was found that the Federal Ministry of Education had implemented five out of seven recommendations. A recommendation was partially implemented and one was not implemented. A total of 17 recommendations were submitted to the bifie, 14 of which were complete, two in part and one were not implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, the degree of implementation of five out of seven and 14 out of 17 is quite a good one, and many recommendations have been implemented on the use of synergies. So money could be saved and efficiency increased, which is of course quite pleasing. Nevertheless, some recommendations have not been implemented, for example, the Federal Ministry of Education continues to set clear economic and operational targets for the baby. An efficient control and subsequent success measurement are therefore not quite possible. One of my personal points is effective controlling in a company and, of course, also in public institutions. Only by correct measurement and evaluation of key figures can optimization potential be identified and problem fields detected. Thus, in the area of staff costs in the bifie, which have experienced an disproportionate increase, an effective project control is to be introduced in order to be able to keep a close eye on this in the future. These are important points in the future, and it is important that they be looked at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22550	The next item is Mrs Greiner's speech. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22576	High house! I refer to the report on banking supervision, which is essentially based on three interplaying pillars: Financial market surveillance, Oesterreichische Nationalbank and European Central Bank. The Court of Auditors has critically questioned the dual structure in Austria in this report. Why? . The Court of Auditors notes that these two institutions create a variety of information that needs to be channelled and aligned. There is an increased need for additional voting, including with the European authority. The Court of Auditors criticises the double representations in the international banking supervisory bodies and says there is no uniform supervisory opinion in Austria. The Court therefore recommends that OeNB and FMA be merged. I am currently able to report that we have recently had a debate on financial market supervision in the Financial Committee. Different models have been calculated and Sukkus is: Just as the separation between the Austrian National Bank and the Financial Market Supervision now exists, it works, and the structures fit. Of course, interfaces can always be optimised – that is clear – what happens continuously. Why does supervision work? – Let us look back to the time between 2000 and 2007, then Black-Blue was in the government. The hypo scandal caused by the FPÖ in Carinthia still employs us, billions have been sunk. At that time, supervision could not work as efficiently as today. Why? – The FPÖ has inserted the hypo behind meter-high concrete walls, almost against the supervision of the financial market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] From 2008 onwards, the financial market supervision and the OeNB of politics presented a guide, and together with the SPÖ-led Federal Government, they have made sure that this hypo disaster could be corrected. [[Abg. Neubauer: Do you believe what you read?]] How did this happen? – They saved Carinthia, they saved Austria’s economic location, stabilised the banking system and the financial market. That means the FMA works as it is. It tests efficiently, in detail and sharply. By the way, today the annual report 2017 was presented by the FMA, where you can read everything. The Supervisory Board has also presented the annual audit plan for 2018. It is all right for the Court of Auditors to consider the costs of an audit authority, but it must be borne in mind that a single authority is not necessarily cheaper. Supervision must work and it must expect itself. Ladies and gentlemen, in the course of the adjustment of the hypo scandal, this supervision has been expected several times. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the future, we will continue to need a strong supervision of our financial market, and such supervision will also have to be ensured. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22623	The next item is the speech by Mr Hauser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22644	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Allow me. quickly a word to Mrs Mag. Greiner, to my previous speaker. As far as the hypo is concerned, there have been investigation committees. We know from the investigation committees that the debt allocation is as simple as the SPÖ wants to have again and again – that is to say, the entire debt at the FPÖ – is not right with God, and that this is not the truth, even if it repeatedly repeats it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] I would like to say to these Court of Auditors that: We are now discussing 11 points on this item on the agenda, and this, of course, has a certain epic width. Of course, it is also very difficult for the spectators to be able to follow it all the time, because everyone speaks to something else. You have only a limited speaking time. That is why, Madam President, it is good that reports will always be issued as individual reports in the future, which can therefore be discussed in a very compact manner. I want to lose a few words on the baby myself. Your colleague, Feichtinger, you've already talked about it. The fact is that the baby is and was a huge construction site – a huge construction site in a SPÖ-led teaching ministry. This is not only to be read in the Court of Auditors' report, but we have always had to experience it here in Parliament. What was the situation like until 1.1.2017? – There have been two business locations for the bifie, Vienna and Salzburg, with double infrastructure, with double administration, therefore of course with double fixed costs, with far too little coordination. The fact that this system has not worked was obvious and clear. It was only because of political requirements that one had just two locations. Now I come to the introduction of the central matura. That's where the bifie Vienna was responsible. I am still in good memory now that this introduction has gone very well. You really have to find out: That was really a plow-and-pan team. There was little until nothing works in the introduction. It was clear, of course, that the competence for the central matura had to be transferred to the ministry and that, as a result, the bifie Vienna was more or less dissolved. That was also a proposal from the Court of Auditors. This proposal has been implemented. The Bifie Wien was actually transferred to the ministry because of course the competence for a mature exam must fall into the immediate competence of the Ministry of Education. You can't just outsource this and say: That's what I've outsourced and I can't do it, so that's not my construction site. The decision to outsource these responsibilities was basically wrong. This has gone down and has been reduced, but what has the Court of Auditors still criticized in its return? – That these 65 planning sites of course have one to one in the ministry. The Court of Auditors has rightly found that these 65 newly created planning sites were too many in the ministry because there was already a similar infrastructure in the ministry. So by this return you have bloated the administrative apparatus – but after all: With 1.1.2017, only one site was left of two sites, Vienna and Salzburg. If you look at the Court of Auditors report, it is clear that our government still needs action. I can now explain why there is a massive need for action in this regard: The Ministry of Education itself has failed to set clear economic and operational targets for the baby. You have to imagine this: There is an outsourced institute without clear targets. – If nothing is clearly specified, of course you can't control it. learning. That was the situation. So that didn't work, that can't work. It was the fault of the ministry not to make clear targets. Thus, of course, an efficient control of the baby by the ministry was not possible at all. The left hand did not know what the right was doing, because no targets were available. The whole problem was solved by the fact that the directors – at the time in Salzburg and in Vienna – did not present a corporate concept for their own house; Bifie without a corporate concept, both in Vienna and in Salzburg. This is, in principle, unimaginable. Everyone does more or less what they want, because there is no concept available. Here the Court of Auditors' recommendation to present a business concept remains open, as you, Madam President, have rightly stated. These are already blatant mistakes that have happened there: On the one hand, the company concepts are missing and on the other hand the targets are missing. That this system cannot work is clear. My speaking time is almost over. Mr Fichtinger has still argued that there was no efficient personnel control. I would also like to stress that. In any case, under the rule remains that due to this situation, mismanagement was produced – no na net – and that our government has also taken over a construction site that it has to clarify. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22722	Mrs Griss. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22744	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say something about two of these reports, which are two reports relating to justice. One is the report on family jurisdiction and the other is the report on the follow-up review of the structural reform of the district courts. The two themes of family jurisdiction and district-based structural reform are closely related. The family jurisdiction is something that people are most likely to come into contact with. About 40 percent of the marriages in Austria are divorced. Many couples have children, and for the children, care needs to be taken. In order to improve these procedures in order to speed them up, the Family Justice Service was established in 2013. This also corresponded to a long-standing demand by the judge, for it is precisely in an care process that it is necessary that educational knowledge, psychological knowledge, social workers' knowledge also be involved. This know-how is now provided by the Family Justice Service. Family aid, as it is now running and as the Court of Auditors has reviewed it, can get even better. It can still be achieved, and to a greater extent, that the Family Justice Assistance also draws up opinions, because opinions are the essential reason why care procedures often take so long. If, now, the Family Justice Assistance supports the Court to a greater degree, the chance of decisions being taken is also greater. This is actually the essential point. If new applications are made over and over again, then the conflict will be reheated, the disadvantages will be made aware, and this will result in the situation not calming down. This is especially harmful for the children. These high requirements, which family jurisdiction also imposes on judges, can only be met if judges in this field also acquire a certain experience if they remain in this field for a longer time. Whether they do this is very much related to our court system. This is why the structural reform of the district courts plays an important role in this context too. The bigger the court units are – it is always the first instance – the easier it is to specialize, and the easier it is to organise representations. It is therefore important that this reform of the sites is further pursued. However, as the Court of Auditors recommends, this needs to be done on the basis of clear criteria to select the sites and on the basis of cost assessments to determine how much it costs to set up a new location. I believe, however, and I am convinced – also because of my experience in justice – that this structural reform of the district courts can only be an intermediate step. Finally, as in Scandinavian countries, the goal must be to have a three-stage court system in Austria: an entrance body – what is now district courts and national courts – a court type that is responsible for all cases at first instance, then a second instance and a third instance. This will be more than the 20 national courts now, but less than the 68 provided for in this judicial reform. This brought many benefits, but of course cannot be implemented from today to tomorrow. Nevertheless, this is a project that needs to be addressed. I make two applications, first of all: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request is: Resolution by Mr Irmgard Griss, colleagues on the implementation of the Court of Auditors’ recommendations in the field of family jurisdiction The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to make the recommendations of the Court of Auditors on family jurisdiction (BUND 2017/24 series), in particular the Employed Failure to implement better networking between the institutions and the use of family judicial assistance instead of the education of experts’. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[20:13]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22904	The two applications have been properly submitted and are under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Kolba. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e22928	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on family jurisdiction and would like to start by saying: There are areas of justice which can be very well evaluated with figures of procedures, with the duration of procedures, i.e. with statistical methods. As far as the Court of Auditors' report is concerned, I understand, of course, that the people concerned are not talking, especially the families and the children who are always well-being in these procedures. However, there is also a report on an evaluation by the Ministry of Justice from 2017, and I no longer understand why one has not at least tried to talk to those concerned and evaluate how they experience this jurisdiction. I myself have experienced a child drop in my immediate environment, in which the child – a four-year-old boy – was picked up from the kindergarten, with the reason that there is a risk to the child's well-being. What did the mother do? Did she beat or neglect the child? – No talk about it; what she did was that she did not comply with the father’s rules of visit and did not cooperate with the youth office too little. ed. In this case, the child loss – I trust to judge – was a simple punishment for the mother and simply had nothing to do with the child's well-being. By the way, this is the same thing as it is. I know enough of the father's cases, not just mothers. We have launched a survey on these abuses in the area of family jurisdiction and so far we have collected 130 cases where parents usually complain about serious shortcomings in the area of family jurisdiction. I believe that these questions should also be evaluated and therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[20:16]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23035	The application has been properly filed and is under negotiation. The President of the Court of Auditors has now spoken. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23059	I'm sorry I'm in there. - High house! Mrs Greiner referred to the report on banking supervision architecture. I would like to draw up a point and talk about an institution that is not otherwise spoken of, but It also appears in the report and for which there is a need for reform, and this is the Institute of State Commissioners. It is true that in 2002 the legislator transferred the role of the supervisory authority from the Ministry of Finance to the FMA. In doing so, the legislator has retained a task, which is the function of the state commissioners. Although these State Commissioners are and were functional bodies of financial market supervision, the appointment remains with the Federal Minister for Finance. In addition, a hearing and proposal right is conferred on the head of state or the head of state of a federal state in which the savings bank has its head office, although the heads of state have ceased to have competence in the area of banking supervision since the establishment of financial market supervision in April 2002. There was then a bank supervision reform in 2017. In this point, only the applied practice was established. It is true that state commissioners now also have to provide quarterly reports. However, these had already been included in the FMA guidelines for over ten years. Significant changes, as they were called for as a result of the Hypo-Research Committee, namely either the abolition or the strengthening of the state commissioners, did not exist. It didn't happen. The Institute of State Commissioners has therefore remained essentially unchanged since 1979 and has not been adapted to the increased supervisory requirements. This opens up two recommendations on the topic of state commissioners – despite the reform in 2017. There is no merger of responsibility for state commissioners at the FMA with regard to selection, appointment, further training and appointment, and no flexibility of this institution as the supervisory instrument of the FMA, but a maintenance of the rigid balance sheet total criterion. There are also real savings. The costs of the State Commissioners must be borne by the supervised credit institutions and amount to around 1.33 million euros per year. The FMA’s administrative burden amounted to an average of 2 000 hours per year between 2010 and 2014. The tasks of the State Commissioners themselves – except for the right of opposition in organ meetings – were covered with reporting and reporting obligations of the directors and the bank auditors of credit institutions, and since November 2005 there has been no opposition from a State Commissioner. So you see, this is an instrument that needs action, and I would like to remind you once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23104	The next item is the speech by Mr Hanger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23126	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I refer to TOP 21 – the President has just mentioned – the Court of Auditors' report on the Austrian banking supervision architecture. I would also like to add a little bit to what the President-in-Office has just said, but I would like to start by saying that – and that is what the report says: A functioning banking supervision is very important for an economic location in Austria, is for Europe, is very important for the global financial economy. We remember that the financial crisis 2008 or the case of Hypo Alpe-Adria was also due, among other things, to a lack of banking supervision, a lack of capital market supervision, and We certainly agree in the House that there is a need for appropriate regulations. That's not a question at all. I would also like to point out that, thanks to banking supervision and capital market supervision, the Austrian banking landscape has also developed very positively in recent years. We have consolidated over all Austrian banks a total of 950 billion euros. We now have an equity ratio of 18.4 percent, and these 18.4 percent are a significant increase compared to the beginning of the financial crisis. That means – after every high-economy phase will come another phase again – our banks are very well equipped for the future. I would, however, like to comment a little on what the Court of Auditors has to say; Mrs Greiner has also mentioned it. There is criticism of the dual supervisory structure, because we have, on the one hand, the OeNB, which makes the suburban examinations, and on the other hand we have the FMA, which is actually responsible for notification. Mrs Greiner has also mentioned it, and I do not want to repeat it now, but there are some potential for efficiency to be lifted. When Mrs Colleagues However, Greiner then argues that the current structure fits, and thinks that what the FMA says in this regard may be true from the point of view of the FMA, and that is precisely the point of view of the FMA, but this argument is not conclusive for me, because if there is potential for efficiency, then we are all required to lift it together. The question of the State Commissioners has just been very plausible explained by the President of the Court of Auditors, and the government programme also provides for further reform of banking supervision. If 80 percent of the balance sheet total of banks is now examined at European level, the so-called significant banks, and only 20 percent of the balance sheet total remains at national level if we have a dual system of which all say it is inefficient, then there will also need reforms in the future. The Federal Minister for Finance has already announced this in the Committee, and the proposals are waiting for it. In conclusion, however, I would like to raise another point of view about regulation as a whole. Of course, the capital market, of course the banks need regulations, also needs supervision, but if I speak with the small regional banks in my constituency, then there is a strong expression that there are certainly also areas that are overregulated. I think we are also experiencing this as consumers: If you go to a bank today and open an account, it is incredible what is presented to you in forms, incredible how many signatures there must be done. If you take up a loan today, it will be much more difficult if you want to put something in place, it is just as difficult, because you have to submit all possible confirmations. What I want to say with it: Regulation yes, but on the other hand, it must also be clear that regulation can also be exaggerated. I personally feel that the bureaucratic pendulum has now hit too much in this direction, especially in banking supervision. That is, if you are discussing a new banking supervision in Austria, then you should also look very carefully at the fact that regulations are simple, unbureaucratic and also understandable to everyone. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23183	The next item is the speech by Mrs Becher. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23204	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I dedicate myself briefly to the Federal Monumental Office, which has the task of preserving cultural goods. Of course, the cultural heritage is one of the most precious things we have. In particular, structures convey history, social and technical progress, and they recall star hours and also dark chapters of our past. This task is therefore also very difficult because it is on the one hand a race against time and decay, on the other hand the obligation not only to dead walls but also to the people for whom the substance is to be preserved in the homes, and also to the owners responsible for the preservation. So it is not only about historical knowledge, it is also about humanity and house mind. My personal contact points with the Bundesdenkmalamt were not always very positive; in the course of a renovation, I had experience with very overlaid conditions, which were also very costly. However, the Court of Auditors is dealing with objective aspects of the Federal Monumental Office, and it is very unfortunate that there is no positive picture to be drawn. I just take out a few points: One is the lack of responsibility in the case of underprotections. In place of more than 500 sub-protections planned for 2014, only almost 176 were achieved. The criteria governing protection have not been published, i.e. action has remained very opaque. There is a disunity of proverbial practice in the modestys that lead to the change or destruction of listed objects. The planning and implementation of the IT project Monument information system is very poor. In 2013 the operation was planned for 2019, and the estimated cost was over 4 million euros, and in 2015 the estimated cost increased to over 10 million euros. This is no wonder either, because no tests have been carried out through an internal revision. This list can be continued at any time. There are invoices of over 140 000 euros in which there is no proof of performance, and there are also incorrect information in the travel books. Overall, I believe that the Court of Auditors' proposals are very constructive and feasible, and I hope that they will be implemented quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23245	The next item is Mrs Lintl's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23266	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the Federal Court of Auditors Report 2017/23 as the Federal Monument Office. This report clearly showed what could develop under the protective cover of the Federal Chancellery and under the responsibility of the former Minister of Culture Schmied, Ostermayer and lastly Drozda of maladministrations. In all the criticisms presented by the Court of Auditors, the most important thing is that there are about 80 000 listed objects in Austria. However, of these 80 000, half of them are still not protected, with rapid action being urgently needed, as the historical building substance naturally deteriorates every day. The Court of Auditors criticises that projects have been carried out without offering comparison and without any possibility of exit in case of costs overrun. The IT project Monument Information System, abridged Demis, which should go to real-life by 2013 at the latest, was not implemented. There was a first cost estimate from 2010, in which the entire project was estimated at EUR 4 million, but in 2015 expenditure was estimated at EUR 10 million. There was no overview of the file situation, of payments, grants et cetera. The Monument Office did not care whether or not the restorers employed were sentenced for price agreements. But these are the restorers that a citizen who wants to renovate a listed object must be obliged to employ. There was also a lack of sensitivity in compliance issues, the intrusive allocation and billing of funding, as well as unauthorised overruns of the staff plan on foreign workers. The list of criticism points can be continued for a long time, but it is a really important issue. It is about shaping the monument protection in such a way that the built cultural heritage of Austria is preserved. In Vienna, for example, this is the whole one. District and some adjacent areas, such as Biedermeier districts in the 3rd and 8th districts. ==References====External links==* Official website District, in Neustift, as well as in Hietzing are worth protecting. Much of these protective buildings are sacrificed new real estate projects, but this trend is also supported by Rot-Grün politically in Vienna. The new Wiener Hochhaus Directive allows such speculations. Negative examples are oversized attic constructions, the installation of the stone farm grounds and especially the project at the Heumarkt. The city of Vienna has gone beyond the state treaty concluded between the Republic of Austria and the Unesco, thus endangering the preservation of the World Heritage Status for Vienna, Inner City. Our new Minister of Culture Gernot Blümel sees the need for action at the Bundesdenkmalamt. We need a structural reform with clearly understandable procedures. It requires clearly defined responsibilities, enforceable, transparent strategies in the area of protection and clear directives on compliance issues. The high level of expertise available in the Bundesdenkmalamt must benefit the preservation and protection of our national buildings and cultural monuments. Finally, I gather § 1 of the Monumental Protection Act: Monument protection aims to preserve monuments and material cultural goods in their diversity and diversity. Their historical, artistic or other cultural significance is a prerequisite. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is a clear task for us to protect cultural goods for the next generations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23321	Next, Mr Kainz. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23348	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and at home in front of the screens! I would like to refer to the Court of Auditors' report on the apartments of the Federal Ministry of Defence. The objective of the review for February to September 2015 was in particular to assess the economic efficiency and effectiveness of the management of the Federal Ministry's homes. The examination referred to the assessment of the need for housing, the transparency of the award of housing, the appropriateness and perceptibility of housing rents, as well as tax aspects. The period 2010 to 2014 was reviewed. During this period, the Federal Ministry had 2 213 apartments, 689 barracks quarters and 613 guest rooms. Their administration was characterized by a division of competences into a variety of organizational units, making it difficult to control, so that effective management was not possible. In fact, there was no unit of organisation in the Federal Ministry, which had an overall overview of the housing to be managed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to deal with the natural and rental apartments here. There was criticism, among other things, in connection with the award of apartments to the staff, that it had been very administrative, since, as mentioned earlier, several organizational units were also involved in the ministry. The staff had to submit applications to the respective authorities, which in turn forwarded the applications to the local military commanders. These evaluated the applications and set them up in accordance with a uniform system of points. In-house housing commissions then examined the lines and submitted proposals. As a result, the proposals of the staff marketing department were submitted to the Federal Ministry's central office for approval. Natural apartments were then assigned to the Service Authority by means of a notice. In the case of rental apartments, the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs concluded a lease contract directly with the staff. Ladies and gentlemen, I think each of us knows that this awarding system is not appropriate. The Court of Auditors therefore recommended that the Federal Ministry set up a single database for the management of the apartments, which covers the entire housing and thus allows for a targeted management of the housing portfolio. In its opinion on this report, the Ministry has already expressed the intention of introducing a single system to record real estate-related housing-related data in a database. The legal basis for a change is still being examined, but I am sure that under the supervision of our Minister of Defense Mario Kunasek the housing management will be designed in the future. After all, the provision of apartments is also an important instrument for recruitment, which is very important to me as a staff representative, and should therefore be designed as efficiently as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23397	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 21. Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-23 of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of taking note of it, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-25 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-26 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Griss, colleagues, on the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations in the field of family jurisdiction. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kolba, colleagues and colleagues on the evaluation of the Family Justice Assistance Act introduced by the 2013 Childhood and Name Law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-27 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 25: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-28 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Griss, colleagues, on the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations on the structural reform of the district courts. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 26 : Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-31 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 27: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-34 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 28: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-35 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 29: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-36. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[Call the ÖVP:Ha!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 30: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-37 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 31: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-40 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 32: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-47 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[20:42:42]] 33. Point first reading: Request by Mrs Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, BA, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Law on Sustainability, Animal Protection, the comprehensive environmental protection, the safeguarding of water and food supply and research (183/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23538	We are now going to item 33 and we are going into the debate. I give the floor to the applicant, Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23562	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! In March, the Council of Ministers took the decision to bring economic growth into the Constitution as the ultimate principle and objective of state – a unilateral and unforgivable step, as I believe, which gives cause for concern in view of the policy of massive social reduction in the Federal Government. Let us think of valuable employment projects for older unemployed people, such as the 20 000 action, whose removal has only recently been criticized by Wifo as a serious mistake in the fight against the still far too high unemployment! Let us think of reductions in apprentices in over-company training or the removal of the funds for the training guarantee up to 25 years! Let us remember the planned introduction of the 12-hour working day, which will no longer lead to freedom, but on the contrary will increase the pressure on workers! Think of the planned introduction of the Austro-Hartz-IV model, a brutal unemployment-mobbing that is operated by the black and blue government and that even the FPÖ minister Hartinger-Little is too steep, which is why she is desperately resisting! By the way, I wish her much strength to do so. Think about the foreseeable extradition of Austrian workers and consumers to international Ceta private dishes in the soldier of many large corporations! [[Abg. Loacker:... not heard for a long time!]] And in view of this frightening black and blue current account, imagine what will break in upon us if, with pink protective aid, economic growth is perhaps still set as the top national objective in the Constitution! Of course, it doesn't have to be. I therefore call on the Federal Government and, as it is not here today, the government groups here in Parliament to give their assent to this request, which is here and which will be discussed in the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. If we are already discussing an extension of state objectives, please not only for the benefit of group investors and speculators, but for the benefit of all citizens in our state! [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Estimated government fractions, confess to social justice and write They set these with us as a state goal in the Constitution, because only if all citizens can contribute to the welfare of our state and participate in the welfare of the state according to their needs, then we have achieved the goal of social peace as the basis for a good life for all people in Austria. As has been said, our request is in committee. In particular, it is addressed to the EIA: It is not enough to change the color, here it is to finally confess color. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23605	The next item is Mrs Diesner-Wais. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23626	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! In the present proposal of the Pilz list, it is about extending the Federal Constitutional Law to include the State objective of social justice. Therefore, I ask myself the question: What do you think is social justice? [[Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber: Just explained!]] [[Abg. Noll: Listen!]] Is social justice: Get what is yours!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Na-Rufe at the list of mushrooms.]] Or do you think the unconditional basic income is socially fair? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] Or do you mean generation justice? Is it social if you make debt at the expense of the next generation? I think social justice has a lot to do with the chance of a job. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] As you have already mentioned, there is the government template for growth and employment. I think that strengthening the economic location and thus increasing employment, creating jobs are important points. You can only look at the whole thing together – work and business. [[New call of the abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] I would like to say: Economy creates jobs. Economy creates value added and thus enables investment. I think it is a great need for every person to find a suitable workplace where he feels comfortable, where he can develop and where he earns so much money that he can live. Of course, this also makes social benefits possible. I therefore believe that these two applications can only be dealt with together, both the one and the other.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23707	Mr Wittmann is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23728	Madam President. High house! I am a little surprised because, since I was in this House, it is common for state objectives to be dealt with in the Constitutional Committee in order to prevent each committee from making its own state objectives, which are likely to contradict itself and then ultimately lead the courts to decide what is valid, and not the legislator. I think this is the completely wrong way. I believe that it would be highly appropriate to collect these national objectives or the corresponding wishes in the Constitutional Committee, so that at least they do not contradict each other, in order not to delegiate our role as a legislative body fully to the courts, because conflicting state objectives lead the courts to decide what is right and what is not right. So I think this is a completely wrong way, because then every committee, including the Sports Committee, can come and say: That's a state target. I think that the Constitution is not at all appropriate to carry out day-to-day business. I do not think it right to operate day-to-day policy in the Constitutional Committee. I do not think it right to make the Constitution a reading book, but in the end the content should be kept as close as possible and it should be revised for the day-to-day policy which is then reflected in the individual laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23768	The next item is Mrs Bißmann's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23786	Good evening! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, do you, with the objective of economic growth, intend to put the economy ahead of the environment in order to eliminate environmental protection? That there can only be a future for all of us if the economy promotes the common good and protects our livelihoods, the economic house mind dictates us. I do not mean the house-understanding of Mr Kassinger of the FPÖ, who is using this profan to deny climate change. It's not about polemics, it's not about opposition policy, it's about our whole future, it's about facts and house thinking. Our absence chancellor Kurz listened here yesterday at the Climate Summit Arnold Schwarzenegger, who listed a few facts. 70 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in California have been reduced, renewable energy will be increased to 50 percent by 2020, ten years earlier than planned. The fears that strict environmental laws in California would lead to emigration, unemployment, the end of the economy, have proved to be unstoppable. Just the opposite is the case, the California economy is stronger than any other US country and stronger than the UK and France. Schwarzeneggers California shows that strong environmental laws produce a strong economy. As Jane Goodall said yesterday, We must combine the brilliance of the human mind daily with the home mind and the heart. - Quote. Dear Government, simply drop this existential project, write home mind and heart into our constitution by adorning yourself with a fact-based legislation!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23819	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 183/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[20:52:46]] 34. Point First reading: Request by Mr Alois Stöger, Mr Diplômé, Mr Colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 and the Labour Contracts Act (214/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23859	We'll get to 34. Agenda item. We are going into the debate, and I ask Mr Stöger to make his speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23883	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We've got it today. Whenever this government speaks, it is about cuts in people's lives. The aid for apprentices over the age of 18 who are in over-company apprenticeships has been reduced, the promotion of the labour market service has been reduced, and workers are particularly affected, for example, by recruiting action 20 000. One has reduced the age part-time by two years, and one says: The economy is going to do it! Whoever looks at the numbers and the numbers of unemployed, who are thank God to go down, notices that some people will, namely, the companies that have previously financed your electoral struggles, in which case it will be directed, but the workers who are older than 50, do not do anything. The training aid for young people who do not get a job in the economy, the support from the AMS, was for people who have a hard time in the economy. The 20 000 action was addressed precisely to those who are 50 years old, are unemployed for a year, have written hundreds of applications and have not found a job. Again: They're directing the big business and your sponsors. With this request, I now give you an opportunity to change legislation, namely the unemployment insurance law and the contract law adaptation law, to change in a direction, to shape the success model of part-time retirement in such a way that part-time age is a possibility to retire, so that there is a smooth transition into retirement. This is in the interests of companies, and this is also in the interest of older workers. This also requires a legal claim for workers to be able to go to part-time work on a labour-law basis. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! To implement a right to part-time work brings a lot to the people who are older, and I ask you to do something for the workers once. Support You have the opportunity to keep your face with your voters!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23925	The next item is Mrs Krenn's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23947	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators of the media! Why is age a success model? – It is a success model because the experience of the elderly remains in operation because there are fewer diseases. It offers workers the opportunity to reduce working time towards the end of their working life, and one can make the transition to old age pension fluid. Why is it a success model? – It is a success model because workers and employers agree without legislation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] My question is: How many cases are there really where workers and employers do not agree? – In my opinion, it is really not necessary to create new legislation, a new draft law and, again, more bureaucracy for workers and employers. However, we really need to consider how to deal with this, which is why this issue is dealt with in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, so that we can do the best possible. for our employees and employers, because only together can we do the best for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e23989	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 214/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[20:58:29]] 35. Point First reading: Request by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues on a federal law establishing the Income Transparency Act (226/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24028	We'll get to 35. Agenda item. We are going into the debate, and I ask Mrs Heinisch-Hosek to make her speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24053	Madam President. High house! Unfortunately, there is much too often in companies and businesses that men and women are still paid differently for the same and equivalent activity. That is why it has been important for us to be able to introduce mandatory income reports in 2011, but at the same time we said that it is important to look at how this works. The income shear has fallen from 23.1 percent to 20.1 percent, but this is still 20 percent that are too much. Now you can explain some income differences, as you know, loose with part-time, with belonging to the company, with the type of training and so on. There are, however, a number of percentages where we do not need to discuss what kind of statistics we consider to be, that is not the issue; it is unexplained percentages that make up pay differences. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] In the 2015 evaluation, it was found that these income reports require improvement and that the next step is long overdue, namely to make the reports more transparent, to make them easier to read, to break up salary components, for example, to refer to the collective contract in terms of salary data, and a lot more. This is what we are discussing at the end of May in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. We already had him in the Committee on Equal Opportunities, unfortunately the Minister has not been able to comment positively, although her government programme says: equal pay for equal and equal work. I think that this next step would be important – in-house, not public; public talk about money the Swedish and Swedish women, in Austria this is not at all common. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] However, there must be transparency within the framework of transparency when every worker and employee has the right to see what someone deserves to be able to do with the Works Council, with the works councillors, and then, when wage discrimination exists, to sue this money. I believe that these rights of workers should be granted and that in future they should also be required by means of a wage transparency, an income transparency law.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24101	Member of the Court of Justice has been notified of his speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24122	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Col., we know that in the EU-wide section, we thank God for having very good values in equal treatment. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Well!]] You have said that we do not want to rely on statistics, but you do it constantly, constantly calling numbers, even now again. You mentioned between 20 and 23 percent, in fact, we know that the income shear is only about 5 percent of God, when you merge and share the data and facts, as you mentioned them. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No! Over 20 percent!]] It is about the age of the individual, it is about working time, it is about professional experience, the training, the way of activity and much more, much more, what needs to be taken into account. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Exactly!]] If all these factors are calculated, the income difference God is not so great, but it is true: [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: They discriminate against women! Nevertheless!]] We have also included in the government programme the task of removing all inequalities, of course, and this will and will be done together with the social partners. I am convinced that the data we now obtain through the income reports will also be an essential part of it. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: They have the data! They're here! Also from the Chamber of Commerce!]] It is also to be taken into account for karenz times, various precipices and much, much more. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not know the Rules of Procedure so well: This is the first reading, and that means that this request is now moving into the Committee. There, of course, he is also very happy to be discussed in detail by us in order to get a vote. This is so far from our point of view the facts and facts behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24210	Next item is Mrs Schimanek's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24232	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Höfinger has already mentioned that in the government programme, we have voted in favour of bringing together the existing income reports. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You can't merge them! That's where you need a law!]] There are so many different reports – from the Court of Auditors, the Federation, the Chamber of Workers – and we urgently need a uniform standard. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We're always talking about different numbers. Mr Höfinger has now spoken of income differences of 5 percent. We have heard that there are differences in income of 28 percent. I think we really need numbers so we know what we're talking about. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You don't know! That's incredible!]] It is therefore particularly important to me that we have a uniform standard so that we do not speak of apples and pears, but of apples and apples. One thing before: I do not understand that women in Austria still deserve less than men for equivalent work. That cannot be it, and I believe that we also need further discussions with the social partners in this regard so that we can eliminate these differences. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Höfinger also mentioned that there are many different parameters why this is so. There is once the experience, then there are the overtime that women do not make, and, and – there are many different parameters. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you know, we have talked about it several times. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: But you too! For many years!]] I think you don't need to set up an X for a U as a wage calculator, because I know exactly where the numbers come from and why this is so. This is where we have to start, and we really need improvement and we will work on it. What I personally do not like about your request is that you will again demand more penalties, more right of intervention by ÖGB and AK and also by arbitration courts. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: It's about transparency!]] That's something we don't need in Austria. We need more cooperation between entrepreneurs and workers. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] There, I think we have to stop. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Another problem with your application is that you would like these statistics, these directories to be kept anonymous, that employees have insight, but that they may not talk about it. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You didn't understand! Unfortunately!]] I believe that this is a problem – in practice it will not stand. I believe that this creates a debate of envy not only about the different salaries of men and women, but also about those of women and women and men and men. That's something we don't want. This request will now be allocated to the Committee, which will be discussed. I would also have rejected him in the Committee on Equal Opportunities, because I believe in principle that this approach is not the right one. We need more together and not each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24345	Mrs Cox is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24367	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In February of this year, the Terre des Femmes women's organisation launched an attempt which I find very exciting, especially for the debate we are now having. It was about transgender people once applied as a man and once as a woman for a job. The tension in this attempt is that the same person has applied for the same job with the same skills. The result was that the differences were enormous. As a man, the person has been offered up to 12 000 euros more than entry into service. Of course, you can now figure out what you want that to be or why. It is important that such an attempt should stimulate thought. At the moment, it is just that not only the qualification is decisive, but also the sex. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] I therefore very much welcome this proposal to extend income transparency to the private sector. I do not give Mrs Schimanek right on this point: I do not think that this will start a debate of envy, but I believe it is important to start an open communication, an open dialogue at exactly this level. I know a number of companies that do this – especially when looking at Sweden and Norway: There it is already possible from two persons, starting from two employees. I believe that we should be orientating in this direction, i.e. that this transparency should not only be available to 150 employees, but should actually take place from two people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] – Mrs Schimanek, I believe that only a hundred percent transparency can be achieved by reducing the gender pay gap.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24415	No one has made any mention of this. I can close the debate. I accept Amendment No 226/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[21:08:53]] 36. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Alfred J. Noll, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Election of the National Council (National Council Election Order 1992 – NRWO) (173/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24455	We are now going to item 36. We are going into the debate and I can give the floor to the applicant, Mr Noll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24479	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's going to be pretty slow, I'm gonna make it short: The pleasure of ordering the university councils is that they are not just citizens. Even more gratifying is the fact that even those who are citizens are, in part, really good people. [[Abg. Checkout: You are in the wrong agenda!]] [[Call the SPÖ:To the electoral order!]] - Then I apologize for that. I'll be corrected. [[General hustle and bustle.]] A 4-percent bonus for the National Council means that the total electoral population would actually be excluded from the Burgenland and Vorarlberg. We propose reducing this barrier to 2% for the National Council. [[Abg. Bösch: Ha, ha! Is that still the fungus? 0 percent!]] - We'll see. I believe that these 2% are factually justified. We will also make further arguments in the Committee. The German Constitutional Court has rightly abolished the 3-percent rule for the European elections. I think it would be good for Parliament to reduce this obstacle to 2%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24545	Mr Peter Weidinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24566	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The crucial question that arises here is what strengthens democracy. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the adoption of Mr Noll's proposal and Pilz's list would only make it more difficult to create a majority that can make viable changes for Austria. A constitutional majority would be very, very difficult to represent in a fragmented party landscape. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Like in Italy!]] The question of how to strengthen democracy is much more important. I would like to raise one aspect that concerns the National Council election and which has perhaps not been considered enough. ==References== In October, the “Kurier” reported in its online issue that the voter participation has increased as never before. At that time, we have demonstrated that the Austrians, when the right positions and the right topics for Austria are on the choice, make great use of the right to vote with great enthusiasm, and that is also good, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Another aspect is that after a long time, for the first time, not the non-electorate party was the strongest party, but the new People's Party. That is why it is good to be careful in the development of our democracy and our constitution and with the constitutional possibilities we have, to allow for a much stronger citizen participation. I would also like to invite the opposition colleagues to: In the interests of the population, cooperate on constitutional majority voting so that we can quickly implement decisions in order to change this country positively!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24610	Mrs Duzdar has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24631	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard that Mr Noll's request from the Pilz list concerns the proposal to amend the right to vote. I must admit that we are skeptical about this proposal from the Social Democracy side of the House from democratic policy considerations. I think it is clear that, of course, every Member and every Member of this House claims to represent the entire population. The proposal provides for a very concrete reduction of the 4-percent burden to 2%. If we start from the last National Council election, these 2% will correspond to around 100 000 votes. If I only remember that there were more than 100 000 electors in my hometown of Donaustadt for the last time, this would lead to any local list which, for example, only works for the district or only for the region without any federal political claim, could enter the National Council. [[Abg. Loacker: How the ÖVP does it!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I see it as well as my previous speaker: This would lead to a massive fragmentation of the party landscape and the finding of a majority would be much more difficult. We must also remember that in Austria we have a right to vote in proportion and no majority voting, and that political parties do not achieve an absolute majority at federal level. Finally, this would also mean that we have coalitions with five, six, seven parties. [[Abg. Neubauer: Does that mean you would accept a majority voting right?]] In reality, decision-making would become very, very difficult. I am also firmly convinced that this would paralyze democracy and that this would not be good for our democracy, because if the people feel that Parliament is not capable of action, this will ultimately also lead to political resignation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] I think that this is not in our sense, but I am looking forward to further debates in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24687	No one has made any mention of this, so the debate is closed. I can assign Amendment No 173/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[21:15:42]] 37. Point First reading: Request by Dr Alfred J. Noll, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the University Law 2002 (109/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24724	Finally, we come to 37. Agenda item. I can give the floor to Mr Noll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24748	Mr President. I was very pleased that my attention test was successful and, despite later hours, everyone knew I was wrong. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Now you can play the deposit!]] The university councils are one of the highest institutions of the university according to § 20 of the University Law. They are ordered by the Federal Government on the proposal of the Minister for Education. We have known since a VfGH decision of 2008 that university councils according to § 21 para. 14 can be called up if they have a close proximity to right-wing extreme views or have too little distance to them. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Or left extreme! All the extremes!]] -College Graf is right. . Our consideration is now to give the Senate as the most democratic body in the university the opportunity not only to wait for such persons who can harm the reputation of the university, but also to give him the opportunity, at the time of the order, to meet with two-thirds a proposal for such appointment by the Minister of Education. Anyone who has read the University Report 2017 from page 255 sees there an essential feature of university cooperation, namely increasing internationality. And for internationalism the reputation of the university is very important. If at least two thirds of the Senate members believe that a person is not suitable for this, we should allow the Senate to reject such a university council within the framework of university autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24798	I call Mr Weidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24819	Mr Noll, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. In principle, the proposal is opposed to the fact that, due to the constitutional conformity, it is not certain whether it is covered by the Constitution at all. Should he be covered by the Constitution, he still has a problem with the appeals agency as far as legal protection is concerned. Mr Noll, I think you will then give your attention, confidence and hearing to the Committee's arguments. Another aspect is that this time the catalogue of criteria has already been used as such. Here I may quote § 1 of the University Law, a commitment to the social responsibility of the University: Universities are called upon to contribute “responsibly to solving the problems of man and to the successful development of society and the natural environment” as well as “to addressing the social challenges in a changing human and gender society.” As a result, your concerns about internationalism have already been removed, because they have already been taken into account in the selection process. Furthermore, you yourself have also acknowledged that the existing legal situation already has the possibility of initiating an appointment. Accordingly, we believe that this amendment is not necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24850	Mrs Kuntzl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24871	Ladies and gentlemen, I would not have thought that a request made by Mr Noll today could at some point be considered necessary. The really unfortunate thing is that one can no longer rely on the German government – and it is about the nominations by the Federal Government – to nominate individuals who use the reputation of the university, who bring in appropriate qualifications, come from various professional areas, have different social, social and social backgrounds that can be closer or further to one, but which have the necessary reputation. This has not been the case after the last appointment of the university councils, we must take note of that, and therefore I fully understand the intention of the application. From our point of view, it is extremely unfortunate that one must consider such a step, because it should be the most obvious that the Federal Government nominates people who meet to the highest extent these requirements that I have mentioned earlier. Since this is not the case - - - - Dear gentlemen, you are already speaking and feel affected. [[Abg. Haider: This is an immense, hetceric naughtiness that you give of yourself!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] I will continue: As this is not the case, we find Mr Noll's request to be highly dissatisfying and supportive.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24933	No one is reported in the word anymore. [[Abg. Kassinger: No, no!]] The debate is closed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] - I'm sorry, I'm taking it back. The debate is not closed. [[Oh-noise at SPÖ and list fungus.]] I give the floor to Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e24983	Mr President. Yes, it was not intended that I should speak, but the last word, one has to take note of, is actually an insult to innocent, impeccable citizens who just don't fit into your worldly concept. [[Abg. Krainer: Was right!]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] They must note that there are individuals and individuals – as is so beautiful in the University Law – who “are or were active in responsible positions in society, in particular in science, culture or economy”. And one, comrades, take [[Abg. We are not comrades.]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] It should be noted that: Citizens also enjoy human rights. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's a little off the line with you. I'll tell you one thing: The University Council is almost comparable to the Supervisory Board of an institution: A part is occupied by the Senate and a part is logically occupied by the “owner-representative” – under quotation marks – of the Federal Government, with all autonomy, and they then agree on a chairman as an odd member at 5, 7 or 9 members. It is interesting that you say that with these three and three members alone the Senate, perhaps also based on the expertise of a private club, can make an appointment at once. We can already discuss this, but what about the Federal Government? You say the Senate is the democratically legitimate body. Well, is not a federal government that enjoys the confidence of the National Council democratically legitimate? And can the Federal Government not say that among the three sent by the Senate are those who may harm the reputation of the Republic of Austria or the University in any form, so that they can be called out? No, no, that's the way it is. Each body will send the one that is included in the criterion, even if it does not match you in a worldly way, but perhaps a bit of a failure than you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25050	Mrs Gamon has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25072	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This debate shows that in principle we have a problem with how such positions as those of university councils are occupied in Austria. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] If there are clear requirements for this, a transparent procedure, such as these, then we would not have to put up with such debates. However, it is clear, and I refuse to give in to moralrelativism here – it is not wishful who is sitting in a university council. It doesn't matter because it's about ordering a rector, a rector; it's about representing the university outside. It's very clear: What tasks do the universities have to perform? They also have the task of further training our spiritual elite, and this is important for the development of liberal democracy. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is perhaps something that is not entirely in the area of FPÖ, but in our, in that of society as a whole, our liberal democracy. It is precisely because of this that moral relativism and the relativization of these positions is not appropriate in this debate. It's not meaty who's sitting in a university council. [[Abg. Gudenus: Main thing, you don't!]] They believe that this debate is unnecessary. [[Abg. Rosary: debate is never unnecessary!]] The university should not be left to ask itself at all the question of whether the persons are at all appropriate to sit in a university council. [[Abg. Höbart: Who will decide? The hazelsteiner is supposed to decide!? This whole Morala Policetum!]] As you have to design the ordering process differently in advance, you have to see that there is, for example, a call for tenders, as well as in Switzerland such positions are ordered at universities. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] This would mean, however, that for university councils one has a transparent ordering process, that there is a certification process, that there are clear training courses for university councils, because then the question of whether a person is suitable to sit in a university doesn't have to first ask. So this would have been unnecessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25170	It seems that no one has made a statement anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 109/A to the Scientific Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:26:58]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2018-05-16-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00023_d8e25206	I announce that at today's meeting – and I ask you very briefly for your attention – the self-employed have been brought in applications 230/A to 257/A. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 9.27 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
